Report No. 1185a-IN                            F
Appraisal of the Bombay Urban Transport
Project  India                                                           IETURtZ                O
October 12, 1976                              |EP 
Urban Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         =        Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00               =        Rs 8.80 1/
Rs 1.00               -        US$0.11
Rs 1 lakh (10 5       =        US$11,364
Rs 1 crore (10 )      =        US$1.14 million
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)           =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) 2   =         0.62 miles (mi)
I square meter (m )  =         10.8 square feet (fi )
1 hectare (hc)        =        10,000 square meters
or 2.7 acres (ac)
1 squire kilometer                                    2
(km )               =       0.386 square miles (mi )
1 kilometer per
hour (kph)          =        0.62 miles per hour (mph)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GOI                 =        Government of India
GOM                 =        State Government of Maharashtra
BMRDA               =       Bombay Metropolitan Region
Development Authority
BMC                 =       Bombay Municipal Corporation
BEST                =        Bombay Electrical Supply and
Transport Undertaking of the
Bombay Municipal Corporation
BMR                 =       Bombay Metropolitan Region
BMRDA Act           =        Bombay Metropolitan Region Develop-.
ment Authority Act, 1974
(Maharashtra IV of 1975)
BMRDA (A) Act                Bombay Metropolitan Region Develop--
ment Authority (Amendment) Aic:, 1976
BMC Act             =        Bombay Municipal Corporation
Act, 1888
WSSD                =        Water Supply and Sewerage Deparl:ment
of the Bombay Municipal Corporation
TPES                =        BMRDA Traffic Planning and Evaluation
Sub-Committee
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
1/ Prior to September 24, 1975 the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
pound sterling rate.  Since then, it has been fixed relative to a "basket"
of currencies.  As these currencies are now floating the US Dollar/Rupes
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in the appraisal report
were made at US$1 to Rupees 8.80 which was the short-term average at the
time of appraisal.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
-SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ................................                      i - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION          ........................     ...................
II.   URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORT ........................                           2
A.   Metropolitan Region Development  ....................                         2
B.   Urban Transport in the BMR .........................                          3
C.   Regional Planning and BMRDA ........................                          6
III.   THE PROJECT  ............................................                           9
A.  Major Components  ...................................                          9
B.  Description  ........................................                         10
C.   Cost Estimates  .....................................                        12
D.   Execution  ..........................................                        14
E.   Financing  ..........................................                        15
F.  Procurement  ........................................                         15
G.   Disbursement  .......................................                        16
H.   Supervision  ........................................                        16
IV.   THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY  .......................                         17
A.   BMRDA ..............................................                         17
B.   BMC/BEST  ...........................................                        18
V.   FINANCE         ..........................      ......................            19
A.   BMC  ................................................                        19
B.   BEST  ...............................................                        20
C.   BMRDA ..............................................                         25
D.   Financing Plan  .....................................                        27
VI.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ....................................                         28
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...................                           29
This report is based on the findings and recommendations of appraisal mis-
sions in September/October 1975 composed of Messrs. R. Woodford, H. Peters
and A. Van Nimmen (Bank) and J. Herbert and G. Hughes (Consultants) and in
February 1976 composed of Messrs. R. Woodford, H. Peters and M. Mould (Bank)
and N. Sullivan (Consultant). The report was prepared by Messrs. Woodford,
Peters and Mould with the assistance of Messrs. S. Whitehead and K. Willen.
This document ha a ratricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1        Urban Development and Transport
2         BMRDA Organization, Activities and Technical Assistance
3         Demand for Bus Services and Bus Fleet Requirements
4         Bus Services Improvement Program
5         Traffic Management Program
6         Economic Evaluation
7         Detailed Project Cost EstiLmates
8         Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST)
9         BEST Bus Fares and Electricity Tariffs
10         Notes on BEST Financial Projections
11         BEST Comparative Operating Statements - Transport and
Electri,zity - and Comparative Statement of Appropriations
12         BEST Sourzes and Applications of Funds Statements
Transport and Electricity
13         BEST Comparative Balance Sheets
14         Project Implementation and Supervision
15         Estimated Schedule of Disbursments
CHARTS
Organization of BMRDA                                 15968
Organization of BMC                                    15969
Organization of BMC Roads Department                   15970
Organization of BEST                                   15971
BEST Passenger and Passenger Kilometer Demand   16070
BEST Bus Fleet and Future Depot Capacity               16069
MAP S
Bombay Metropolitan Region                            12215
Greater Bombay and Twin City Area - Land
Use and Major Transport Facilities                  11941
Greater Bombay - Bus Depot/Workshop
Improvements                                        11942
Island City - Bus Circulation Improvements            11943



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of India (GOI) and the State Government of Maharash-
tra (GOM), on behalf of the Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority
(BMRDA) have requested a Bank loan of US$25 million equivalent to assist
in financing a project to improve bus services in Greater Bombay and to
support regional development planning and a regional traffic management
program in the Bombay Metropolitan Region (BMR).
ii.       Bombay is India's leading industrial and financial center.  Rapid
industrial and commercial growth and accompanying inmigration have strained
existing facilities and services within the jurisdiction of the Bombay
Municipal Corporation (BMC) and created major new public investment needs
in existing urbanized areas and in outlying growth areas in the BMR. A
Regional Plan prepared in 1973 to provide a broad framework for development
and investment efforts documents the importance of continued industrial
decentralization efforts and the priority of water supply, sanitation, basic
shelter and public transport improvements to service existing urbanized areas.
Supporting analyses also indicate that public transport has become an
integral element of the regional labor market and a necessity to a growing
number of moderate income workers and thereby of high priority for the
maintenance of the regional economy.
iii.      Bombay is served by relatively efficient public transport operators,
the Central and Western Railways and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport
Undertaking of BMC (BEST) which operates buses. In recent years, however,
mass transport capacity has lagged behind demand and system performance has
deteriorated. In peak periods buses and trains are severely crowded; bus
waiting times have increased sharply, and transport regularity and depend-
ability have suffered. Further deterioration could restrict access to
the labor market for many of the work force and constrain economic growth in
the region.
iv.       Present mass transport deficiencies have been brought about largely
by rapid economic and population growth, ineffective planning and control
of commercial land use, and by the inadequacy of present public transport
revenues to meet fleet replacement and expansion costs. Recent steps taken
to alter the present land use/travel pattern may marginally relieve the
increasing burden on mass transit services and further examination is to be
made of the potential role of mini-buses and other supplementary road passenger
transport services. However, increased capacity of existing rail and bus
systems will also be required. Significant further increases in suburban rail
capacity are unlikely to be realized soon as improvement works in all metro-
politan areas of India have been curtailed pending resolution of pricing and
financing issues that involve national as well as local policies. In this
context immediate improvements in the operating and financial performance
and carrying capacity of BEST bus services are urgently required.



- ii -
v.         BEST, BMC and BMRDA have devised timely actions which form the
basis for the present project, including fleet improvements and augmentation,
removal of traffic bottlenecks on high volume bus routes and cormmencement
of transport planning anld traffic management programs for the region.  The
investments and financial and operations improvements would be carried out
by BMC and BEST which are competent, established agencies. Major invest-
ment options would remain open while remledies for more basic mass transport
problems in the BMR are being investigated and implemented.
vi.        The transport planning investigations by BMRDA would be expected
to lead to more basic solutions to public transport problems achievable in
the medium to long term. They would serve to establish BMRDA's r-ole in
the review and coordination of transport sector policies and would also be
accompanied by Bank support for BM1RDA in its broader roles of regional
planning and coordination, project financing and resource mobilization which
are of substantial importance to the future development of the metropolitan
region.
vii.       BMRDA was established by GOM in 1975 to help achieve a closer co--
ordination of investments by public entities in the metropolitan region
and so encourage complementary policies so as to reduce resource requirements.
Support for this new institution to further these efforts is a major feature
of the proposed project.
viii.      The project would consist of actions to be undertaken cver a three-
year period to improve bus services and support regional development plann:ng
and a regional traffic management program.  The bus services improvement c nin-
ponent, comprising more than 95% of total project costs, would consist of:
(a)  procurement of- 700 buses and related chassis components to
replace over age units and augment BEST's bus fleet;
(b)  construction and equipping of three bus depots and a work-
shop, and extension and re-equipping of three existing
depots and one workshop;
(c)  construction of eleven bus shelters/termini;
(d)  execution of traffic engineering schemes at about
40 locations to improve the circulation of buses;
(e)  provision of technical assistance and training to
BEST; and
(f)  provision of technical assistance and training to BMC in
the execution of traffic engineering measures.



- iii -
The development planning and management assistance component would comprise
aid to BMRDA in:
(a) definition of an organizational development program,
preparation of management, accounting and finance
procedures, and a review of an organization and
management progress;
(b) preparation of regional development planning and
investment programming procedures and project
appraisal guidelines;
(c) review of mass transport pricing and funding;
(d) preparation of an initial traffic management program
for the region; and
(e) training of staff.
ix.       Project costs including contingencies total US$50.5 million, of
which about US$5.8 million would be foreign exchange. BMRDA would be the
borrower of the proposed loan of US$25 million which would cover 49% of total
project costs and 57% of total ex-tax project costs. The proceeds of the Bank
Loan, except those for technical assistance to the BMRDA, would be onlent by
that Authority at Bank terms plus 0.5% onlending fee to the BMC for its
subsidiary BEST for bus improvements and its Roads Department for traffic
circulation improvements. COM would insure that the borrower and project
entity execute their responsibilities under the project. The Government of
India would guarantee the Loan.
X.        Contracts for supply of bus chassis, chassis components and major
workshop equipment totaling US$17.4 million equivalent would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Contracts for the supply of bus bodies, minor workshop and traffic control
equipment and tools totaling US$9.7 million equivalent would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts for civil works totaling US$19.0 million equivalent would be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Retroactive Bank financing is estimated to amount to less than US$0.2 million,
mainly for civil works due to commence between the conclusion of negotiations
and signing of the Loan Agreement and for consultant services for project
preparation.
xi.       BEST is an experienced and competent organization which would
execute bus improvements, aided by technical assistance in operations and
management. BMC's Roads Department would be responsible for implementation
of traffic improvements and would be aided by technical assistance in traffic
engineering. BMRDA, in addition to being responsible for overall coordination
of this transport project, would also initiate regional investment programming,
development planning and sectoral analyses in housing and urban renewal, and
water resource management, and act as a development finance agency.



- iv -
xii.       The finances of the BMC and of the BEST undertaking are adequate
for the project.  BMRDA's finances, particularly in respect of metropolitan
development finance, are not yet guided by detailed budgets or forecasts and
until such are prepared the Bank should rely on GOM guarantees of BMRDA par-
formance and funding.
xiii.      The rate of return of the bus fleet replacement and expansion anc
traffic components, based on operating cost savings and the value of in-
creased travel and time savings, is about 28%.
xiv.       The proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$25 million
to the Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority for a term of 20
years including a grace period of four and one half years.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) and the State Government of
Maharashtra (GOM), on behalf of the Bombay Metropolitan Region Develop-
ment Authority (BMRDA) have requested a Bank loan of US$25 million equiv-
alent to assist in financing a project to improve bus services in Greater
Bombay and to support regional development planning and a regional traffic
management program in the Bombay Metropolitan Region (BMR). BMRDA is a
statutory entity of GOM created in 1975 as a regional planning, develop-
ment control and financing agency.
1.02      A 1970 Bank urban sector mission to Bombay identified inter alia
the need for (i) low-cost, road-based public transport improvements; (ii)
stronger policy measures to improve transport efficiency and to control
adverse land use development; and (iii) a common regional investment program-
ming framework for competing sectors and agencies. The proposed project was
prepared by the Bombay Electric Supply and Electricity Undertaking of the
Bombay Municipal Corporation (BEST), and the Roads Department of the Bombay
Municipal Corporation (BMC) under the supervision of the Planning Department
of GOM. The first feasibility report was presented in May 1975 with supple-
mentary reports in September 1975 and January 1976.
1.03      This would be the second urban project supporting metropolitan
development efforts in India, the first being Credit 427-IN for the Calcutta
Metropolitan District. Other Bank Group lending directly benefiting Bombay
has included Credit 390-IN for the Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project
being implemented by the BMC, Credit 280-IN for the Eleventh Railway Project
which included finance for imported equipment for the Western and Central
Railways suburban services serving Bombay, Loan 27-IN for the Bombay Port,
Loans 146-IN, 164-IN and 416-IN and Credit 377-IN for power generation and
transmission by Tata Power Company and Credits 242-IN and 604-IN for power
transmission including the Maharashtra State Electricity Boad.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of Messrs. R. Woodford, H.
Peters and A. Van Nimmen (Bank) and J. Herbert and G. Hughes (Consultants)
during an appraisal mission to Bombay in September/October 1975 and Messrs.
R. Woodford, H. Peters and M. Mould (Bank) and N. Sullivan (Consultant)
during a second appraisal mission to Bombay in February 1976. The report
was prepared by Messrs. Woodford, Peters and Mould with the assistance of
Messrs. S. Whitehead and K. Willen.



II. URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND TRANSPORT
A. Metropolitan Region Development
2.01      Bombay, the capital of the StELte of Maharashtra, is Tndia's leadirg
industrial and financial center and is second only to Calcutta in population.
Greater Bombay I/ with a 1971 population of 6.0 million or about 1% of the
country's total generates about 20% of the industrial output and 3% of the
national income. In the past decade the population of the BMR 2/ and of
Greater Bombay increased at a rate of about 3.7% per annum (see ALnnex 1).
Rapid industrial and commercial growth and accompanying inmigration have
strained existing facil-lties and services in the densely settled Island Ci:y
and created major new public investment neieds in outlying growth areas
of Greater Bombay and the BMR.
2.02      GOM has sought: to maintain the strength of the Bombay economy and
to improve essential productive and social services while decentralizing the
growth of economic activity and reducing inmigration. Its actions have in--
cluded regulation of inc.ustrial expansion in Greater Bombay, provision of
industrial incentives and sites and low-cost housing in outlying areas of t.he
BMR and development of a "Twin City" new town area across the harbor from
Bombay to serve as an exentual counter magnet to the existing city (see
Map 11941), BMC, the dominant local authority in the BMR, is improving wai.er
supply and sanitation in. Greater Bombay with IDA assistance, is upgrading
slums and tenements and through BEST has extended bus services to new grov:h
areas in the suburbs. The Central and Western Railways, Central Sovernment:
entities, have also initiated major improvements in suburban rail services
between new outlying grcwth areas and central Bombay.
2.03      A Regional Plan prepared in 1973 to provide a broad framework for
development and investment efforts in the BMR documents the importance of
industrial decentralization policies and projects and the priority of water
supply, sanitation, basic shelter and public transport improvements servic:.ng 
existing urbanized areas. The analyses supporting the Plan also indicate that
public transport services have become essential to the functioning of the
regional labor market and a necessity to a growing number of mode-rate income
workers and thereby of high priority for the maintenance of the regional
economy.  C0I's request for assistance in urban transport has been advanced :-n
1/   Greater Bombay is the 440 km  area, including the Island Cityr, and itE
immediate and extended suburbs. It is administered by the Bombay Muni-
cipal Corporation (BMC).
2/   The Bombay Metropolitan Region (BMR) is the area of more tharn 4,000 km
with a 1971 population of 7.7 million which was originally defined as
the basis for preparation of the Regional Plan (see para 2.03). It is
now the area of jurisdiction of the Bombay Metropolitan Regional
Development Authority (BMRDA), (see Maps 12215 and 11941).



the context of the priorities of improved public transport in the region and
the intent of GOM, BMRDA, BMC and BEST to take timely action to deal with the
complex transport problems of Bombay (see para 2.14). It has also been made
in the context of the substantial commitment and progress demonstrated by GOM
and BMC in water supply, basic shelter and decentralization programs (see para
2.18) which are also of high priority and which could be the subject of future
Bank Group participation.
B. Urban Transport in the BMR
2.04      Role and Importance:  Transport has long been a key factor in
Bombay's industrial and commercial growth. The initial settlement of the
area was based on natural transport advantages provided by its harbor.
Inter-regional railways and roads built to serve the port have reinforced
Bombay's locational advantages and intra-regional rail and road transport
services have enabled industrial and related residential development to
decentralize and expand in accordance with regional development objectives.
However, decentralization has also tended to increase the separation of
jobs and people and add to Bombay's transport burden. Growth of employ-
ment in new development areas continues to be less than accommodation for
resident workers, thus making it necessary for many workers to commute long
distances.
2.05      Present Situation:  About 300,000 of the 1,400,000 jobs in the
Island City are held by persons residing in the suburbs and areas outside
Greater Bombay. Committed commercial development in the central area in
the southern third of the Island City could by 1981 add another 180,000
jobs and a nearly equivalent number of long distance commuters. Within
the Island City and the suburbs there are shorter but still heavy local
commuter movements which are also rapidly increasing. Mass transportation
rail and bus services carry about 80% of person trips made by motorized
modes. Each mode carries about three million passengers daily and demand
for each has increased by about 5% per annum over the past decade (see
Annex 1).
2.06      Suburban rail services operated by the Western and Central divi-
sions of Indian Railways (see Annex 1) carry most of the long distance travel
including about two-thirds of the 300,000 workers traveling by motorized
means to the central area. Maximum peak flows exceed 120,000 passengers
per hour entering the Island City on high frequency services operated as far
as Virar to the north and Kalyan to the northeast, each over 50 km from
Churchgate and Victoria Terminals in the central area of the Island City.
The Western and Central Railways have achieved high standards of operational
efficiency on suburban services and have suceeded in increasing the capacity
of existing trackage through relatively low-cost signaling and related improve-
ments. The ability of these operating entities further to expand services is
now, however, impeded by rail fares set by the GOI which are low and substan-
tially below costs (see paras 2.10 and 2.12).



-4-
2.07      The municipal bus service in Greater Bombay operated by BEST is
the largest and most heavily used urban bus operation in India.  BEST holds
an exclusive franchise for scheduled bus services within Greater Bomba,'.
Its buses accommodate about two-thirds of road passenger movements, anc,
comprise about 10% of vehicular traffic.  BEST operates a predominantly rail
feeeder/network in the suburbs and an extensive network of services wi-hin
the Island City.  Mlaximum peak flows on the three major north-south rolutes
approaching the central area reach 35,000 passengers per hour. Bus fares
set with the approval of BMC (see para 5.04) are now about Rs 0.05 (US(.524)
per kilometer, about equal to direct operating expenditures.  Past and present
levels of bus fares have been inadequate for BEST to expand and improve bus
operations to serve road mass transport demand in Greater Bombay for which
it is the sole supplier (see paras 2.10 and 5.05).
2.08      Problems:  Road transport conditions in Bombay have deteriorated
in recent years but the problems for public transport operations are not yet
as serious as in many other developing cities.  Car ownership is low (about
61 persons per car) and the growth of car ownership and use has been checked
by very high purchase and operating costs and taxes.  In recent years pr--
vate vehicles have increased by about 5% per annum. Private cars account:
for about 18% of road passengers and for less than 40% of road traffic in
congested areas, a very low level among cities of the developing world.
Private cars contribute less to congestion than taxis, trucks and the over-
spill of pedestrians, markets and gocds loading activities into main road-
ways. Car parking, however, is poorly controlled and charges in conges--ed
areas are still nominal or non-existent.  Road congestion is localized in
the areas of markets, warehouses and the port. The police have achieved a
degree of traffic control and discipline which is high in comparison wil-h
other Indian cities.  Few specific measures to control traffic for the :en-
efit of buses and pecdestrians, however, have been made and no overall traf-
fic planning has been attempted.
2.09      Despite gernerally effective operation of suburban rail and bu,
services, mass transport performance measured in terms of overcrowding,
waiting times and regularity and dependability has deteriorated substan-
tially in recent years. Overloading of trains and buses in peak periods
has become extreme. Waiting periods for buses in peak hours have in-
creased to 30-35 minutes compared with 20 minutes only a few years ago.
Peak periods have increased by capacity restraint to nearly three hours
in the morning and evening, compared with two hours in the mid--1960's.
Further deterioration of services cou:Ld restrict access to the labor mar-
ket of many of the work force and constrain economic growth in the regioi.
2.10      Present mass transport deficiencies have been brought about la :gely
by rapid economic and population growth, ineffective planning and contro-
of commercial land use, and by the inadequacy of public transport revenu s
to meet equipment replacement and expansion costs. Road passenger trans['ort
capacity has also been constrained by the restrictions on entry of privaile bus
and mini-bus operators in the BMR.



- 5 -
2.11      Solutions:  GOM has recently encouraged BMC and other local bodies
to adopt policies in support of public transport and through BMRDA has estab-
lished institutional mechanisms to bring the major transport entities together
to evolve coordinated regional transport policies and operations (see Annex
5). GOM has also introduced staggered working hours for offices in the
business core and is about to decentralize some of its office staff from the
central area. GOM also has under preparation regulations to control office
space construction and conversion in the southern half of the Island City for
eventual implementation by BMRDA. GOM has also encouraged BMC to control
parking and restrict car access to central Bombay. The Regional Transport
Authority, the relevant transport regulatory agency for the BMR has favorably
evaluated proposals for the entry of private mini-bus operators in the BMR.
BMRDA's Traffic Planning and Evaluation Subcommittee is to further examine
the role of mini-buses and other supplementary public transport services as
a basis for future GOM policy (see Annex 5).
2.12      Recognizing that the above actions would not soon check the growth
of long distance travel to central Bombay, GOM and GOI have also concluded
that further increases in suburban rail capacity are necessary. Works now
planned and programmed by the Western and Central Railways would total more
than Rs 115 crores (US$131 million) by 1981 (see Annex 1). Continuing suburban
rail improvement works in all metropolitan areas of India, however, have been
curtailed by the Railways Board pending parliamentary action on its request
for commuter fare increases and/or subsidies to offset losses on suburban
services. Plans for an initial section of a new subway/surface rail line
through the Island City costing about Rs 160 crores (US$180 million) have also
been stalled because Central/State funding sources have not been identified.
The complex mass transport pricing and funding questions raised by these
proposals are among the issues to be examined by BMRDA within an overall
regional development context. The financing of railway improvements involves
national as well as regional policies, however, and may take a considerable
time to resolve. As a result significant increases in rail passenger capacity
are unlikely to be soon realized.
2.13      Within this regional transport context immediate improvements in the
operating and financial performance and carrying capacity of BEST bus services
are urgently required. BEST has been able to increase its bus fleet by about
10% during the past year by means of a special assistance loan from GOI. At
the urging of GOM, BMC also permitted bus fares to be increased by 17% in
December 1975. In May 1976 GOM also reduced its passenger tax applicable to
BEST from 5.0% of revenues to 3.5%. BEST's ability to continue needed expan-
sion and improvement of services, however, continues to be constrained by
inadequate availability of internal funds. Also a significant proportion of
its fleet (about 26%) is overaged and is becoming increasingly unreliable.
Its bus workshops and depots are operating beyond capacity and maintenance
equipment is obsolete and worn out. Vehicle and passenger facilities in
critical loading areas are also deficient. Furthermore, BEST's routes and
schedules have not been systematically reviewed and updated to make most
efficient use of available buses. Finally, traffic conditions for buses
have deteriorated despite application of traffic control measures and the
generally restrained use of private cars.



-6-
2.14      Immediate Actions:  BEST, BMC and BMRDA have devised a set of timely
actions as the basis for the proposed urban transport project which would
maintain bus services and expand bus capacity in the immediate future. The
actions would include:
(a)  replacement and augmentation of BEST's bus fleet;
(b)  improvement of BEST's maintenance facilities and
operating procedures including routing and
scheduling;
(c)  removal by 'BMC of traffic bottlenecks on high volume
bus routes; and
(d)  commencement by BMRDA of inter-modal transport planning
and analyses and investigation of means to improve the
efficiency of public transport services through regional
traffic management including regulatory measures.
Major transport investment options would remain open while longer term rerredies
for more basic mass transport problems in the BMR are being investigated and
implemented.
2.15      The investments and financial and operations improverents would
be carried out with appropriate financial and technical assistance by BMC
and BEST which are competent, established agencies.  Transport planning
undertaken by BMRDA wi'th technical assistance would serve to establish B'IRDA's
role in the review and coordination of transport sector policies and in
regional traffic management.  These actions would also be accompanied by Bank
support for BMRDA in its broader roles of regional planning and coordinaiion,
project financing and resource mobilization which are of substantial imp:rtance
to the future developnment of the BMR.
C. Regional Planning and BMRDA
2.16      The many central, state and local government agencies providin;
services in the BMR have operated more or less independently. The combiied
resource requirements of these agencies are high and planned investment l-as
not been sustained in recent years due to rapidly rising costs and publi.
finance stringency. The lack of effective mechanisms for coordinating p(%licies
and investments in the BMR has encouraged individual agencies to retain
unrealistic investment perspectives and expectations of outside funding ,.nl to
avoid difficult pricing and other policy decisions.
2.17      The Regional Plan of 1973 was a first attempt to provide a comro7l
policy and investment focus for the region but it failed to include prop:sals
for maintaining the high levels of investment proposed. It did, however,



identify the need for a regional level coordinating body to review and advise
on the development efforts of constituent authority's in the region, a regional
water resources board to coordinate the allocation of water and regional
transport board to coordinate mass transport policies and operations.
2.18      In the absence of periodic regional planning reviews after adoption
of the Regional Plan, a high level GOI/GOM committee was convened in 1975
to reassess development policies and to define a "minimum" regional invest-
ment program. It generally confirmed ongoing policies and identified public
investments commencing in the next three years of Rs 618 crores (US$702 mil-
lion), primarily for water supply, housing, site and services and slum
improvement and public transport (see Annex 1). These proposals, however,
still substantially overestimate likely funding and require further critical
re-examination of policies, investment priorities, service standards and local
resource mobilization in the major infrastructure sectors (see para 5.15).
2.19      To deal with the ongoing problems of investment coordination and
programming and resource mobilization, GOM has in the past two years estab-
lished district level planning which now provides continuing reassessments
of needs and priorities to its annual state plan review including inputs from
the three districts located in the BM1R: Greater Bombay, Thana and Kolaba
(see Map 12215). More significantly, GOM in 1975, established the BMRDA
as a permanent and broadly based regional planning, development control
and financing body to provide continuing policy and investment coordination.
These moves together have now created the means for more serious and timely
regional planning, coordination of investment proposals of individual agen-
cies, setting of priorities in relation to available funding and regional
objectives, preparation of needed sectoral planning analyses, funding of
needed projects and mobilization of local resources.
2.20      BMRDA has been established by GOM as a statutory regional plan-
ning authority with powers to make regional development and sectoral plans
and policies, to direct local authorities in local development planning and
to control private and public development actions. BMRDA also has the powers
of a regional development finance agency and may raise tax revenues and
loans to finance projects. Given the scope of the region's development
activities, the composition of the Authority and the strength of its con-
stituent members, BMRDA will seek to improve regional decision-making and
coordination with existing agencies largely by participatory and consultative
means.
2.21      BMRDA's primary activities are expected to include:
(a)  review, formulation and coordination of regional
development policy and programs for major sectors;
(b)  raising of local resources and financing of projects
selected on the basis of regional priorities;



- 8 -
(c) monitoring, review and evaluation of regional develop-
ment and investment activities;
(d)  review and comment to GOM on projects from the BMR
proposed For State Plan financing;
(e)  maintenance of essential regional data;
(f) preparation of development studies, plans, action
programs and projects of importance to the region; and
(g) preparation and administration of selective development
control regulations.
BMRDA requires further development of its organization and staff and ac.ministra-
tive procedures to perform the above tasks. Under the proposed urban transport
project, for which it would act as borrower (see para 4.01), BMRDA wou:Ld seek
to make substantial progress in these areas.
2.22      The specific institutional objectives of the project with respect
to BMRDA are to:
(a) establish a sound legal and organizational base for the
entity;
(b) establish sound management and financial practices and
develop pr3cedures for project appraisal and assessmient
of regional investment programs;
(c) define and initiate work programs for the BMRDA's major
staff units and specifically to initiate a regional
traffic management program and a transport planning
review; and
(d) define staf-fing and training requirements for all staff
units.
The project's legal objective has been met by a recent amendment to the BI4RDA
Act (see para 4.02).  The financing objective is being met in part by B1WI)A's
establishment of an Accounts and Finance Management Division including key
posts, appointment of personnel and adoption of detailed financial and loan
fund regulations satisfactory to the Bank (see para 4.05). Technical aEsist-
ance and training under the project would aid BMRDA in achieving the remaining
objectives (see para 3.02).



- 9 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Major Components
3.01      Bus Services Improvement:  The bus services improvement component
would consist of the following actions to be undertaken over a three-year
period by BEST and BMC:
(a) procurement of 700 buses and related chassis components
to replace overage units and augment BEST's bus fleet;
(b) construction and equipping of three bus depots and a
workshop, and extension and re-equipping of three existing
depots and one workshop;
(c) construction of eleven bus shelters/termini;
(d) execution of traffic engineering schemes at about 40
locations to improve the circulation of buses and
movement of pedestrians;
(e) provision of technical assistance and training to BEST
in bus operations and management; and
(f) provision of technical assistance and training to BMC in
the implementation of traffic engineering measures.
3.02      Development Planning and Management:  The development planning
and management component would comprise technical assistance to aid BMRDA
in:
(a) definition of an organizational development program,
preparation of management, accounting and finance
procedures, and review of organization and management
progress;
(b) preparation of development planning and investment
programming procedures and project appraisal guidelines;
(c) review of mass transport pricing and funding.;
(d) preparation of an initial traffic management program
for the BMR; and
(e) training of staff.



- 10 -
B. DescriFpion
Bus Services Improvement
3.03      Buses and Spares:  The projecl: would provide 700 single and double
deck buses together with adequate spare main chassis components, includ.ng
engines and gear boxes, required for preventive maintenance (see Annex .).
Some 433 or 62% of the buses would replace overage units in BEST's present
fleet and would reduce operating costs and increase revenues (see Annex 4).
The remaining 267 buses would augment the carrying capacity of BEST's present
fleet by 16%. The increase would be adequate to meet passenger growth during
the project period through late 1979 based on conservative estimates of demand
and expected increases in bus productivity (see Annex 3). Greater augme.nLation
of the fleet during the period is not practicable due to the constraint<. of
depot and workshop capacity which can be significantly relieved only lat:e in
the project period (see para 3.04 and Chart 16069).
3.04      Depots/Workshops:  Three depots and one workshop wou:Ld be construc-
ted and equipped and three existing depots and the single existing workshop
would be extended and re-equipped to relieve present overcrowding and tc
provide adequate maintenance facilities for fleet additions (see Map 11942 and
Annex 4). Works are to be expedited to introduce new capacity as soon as
possible. BEST's Engineering and Traf.fic Departments have coped well with
existing overcrowding and are capable of devising temporary maintenance and
dispatch arrangements for buses to minimize service performance difficul-ies
during the early project period (see Annex 8).
3r05      Bus Shelters/Termini:  The project would provide for construct:on
of eleven sheltered bus stops/termini recessed from the carriageway alon.
high frequency bus routes.  The improvements would remove loading and un
loading buses from the main traffic stream and provide protection from tfe
weather to bus passengers and to bus crews at terminal points.
3.06      Traffic Engineering improvements:  Traffic engineering improver-eats
included in the project are at locations along high bus frequency routes
where buses experience cumulative daily delays in excess of three vehiclE:
hours and where pedestrian movement is very heavy or particularly unsafe
(see Map 11943). The schemes include eight flyovers, twelve intersection
channelizations, two street widenings/extensions, one major bridge widening,
two pedestrian bridges and five pedestrian tunnels (see Annex 4). In adci--
tion, four major intersections would be provided with traffic lights and
existing traffic signals would be rehabilitated and timed to favor bus
movements.
3.07      BEST Operations and Management Assistance and Training,:  The pr:ject
would provide for twenty man-months of expert assistance in bus operations
and financial management to aid BEST in a review of the current practices
including:



- 11 -
(a) preparation of service operations and development
guidelines based on present financial and operational
targets for the transport division (see Annex 8);
(b) preparation of a modern management costing system for
the transport division (see para 5.14);
(c) identification of immediate route and schedule changes
to increase service effectiveness and to extend minimum
services to new development areas; and
(d) a thorough re-examination of BEST's routes, schedules
and services based on new passenger and travel data to
become available from a commuter survey by mid-1977 and
improved costing information.
To direct these and other related tasks and to establish a continuing opera-
tions and management review function, BEST has established positions of a
Chief Development Adviser and four other staff to form an Operations and
Management Task Force under the Deputy General Manager.  Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Task Force would be formally established
by BMC by October 1976. The Chief Development Adviser and other staff
assigned to the Task Force have been appointed. Terms of Reference for
services to be provided under project technical assistance are to be pre-
pared by BEST, with Bank assistance.  Agreement was reached at negotiations
that BMC would cause BEST to employ consultants with qualifications, experi-
ence and terms of employment satisfactory to the Bank. The project would
also provide for external training of BEST staff. BMC will make available
to the Bank by December 31, 1976 a proposed BEST training program.
3.08      BMC Traffic Engineering Assistance and Training:  The project would
provide for twenty man-months of expert assistance in traffic engineering to
aid BMC in the reprogramming of traffic signals to favor buses, to improve
project design and monitoring techniques, and to carry out an ongoing program
of small area surveys and project preparation (see Annex 4). The technical
assistance would be provided to two divisions recently established under BMC's
Roads Department: a Traffic Planning Division which is to prepare traffic
engineering and control schemes under the policy guidance of BMRDA's Traffic
Planning and Evaluation Subcommittee (TPES) (see para 3.11); and a Traffic
Operations Division which is to implement future schemes. BMC has prepared a
work program for the Traffic Planning Division in consultation with TPES and
has with Bank assistance, prepared terms of reference for technical assistance.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BMC would employ consultants
with qualifications, experience and terms of employment satisfactory to the
Bank. The project would also provide for external training of BEST staff.
Assurances were obtained that BMC would make available to the Bank by
December 31, 1976 a proposed BMC training program.



- 12 -
Development Planning and Management
3.09      Organization, Management and Finance:  The project would provide
for experts to review and as appropriate propose modifications in the organi-
zational structure and divisional work programs of BMRDA, and to prepa:re a
staffing program including an assessment of further technical assistance
needs and recommendations as to utilization of their uncommitted BMRDA tech-
nical assistance furds under the project.  The project would also prov:de
for experts to recommend and install within BMRDA basic management and admin-
istrative procedures, a project monitoring and reporting system, a modern
public authority-type accounting system and a financial management and report-
ing system and forecast financial statements for 1977-78 to 1981-82. E)rovi-
sion is also made for consultants to undertake an organization and mana.gement
performance review in late 1978 to assess BMRDA's progress and further manage-
ment assistance.
3.10      Development Planning:  Experts in regional development plann:i[ng,
development control, investment programming and project appraisal are required
to assist BMRDA (see Annex 2). The project costs include US$60,000 to help
finance these needs.
3.11      Transport:  The TPES will be responsible for supervising the devel-
opment of a regional traffic management program (see Annex 5).  Under the
project, a traffic policy expert would be provided to assist TPES in formula-
ting appropriate traffic management strategies and actions. An urban transport
economist would be provided to assist in mass transport pricing and fun 1:ng
investigations (see Annex 2). BMRDA will employ consultants in organiz:t;ion,
management and finance, development planning and transport with qualifi2z.tions,
experience and terms of employment satisfactory to the Bank according to a
timetable to be agreed with the Bank. The project would also provide for
external training of BMRDA staff, the program for which will be prepare:l
during the execution of the project.
C. Cost Estimates
3.12      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$50.5 million
Rs 44.5 crores of which US$5.8 million (Rs 5.1 crores) or 12% is estimated
to be in foreign exchange.  Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex ,and
are summarized below:



- 13 -
Rupees (crores)            US$ (million)
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
I. Bus Services Improvement
BEST
Buses and Spares         17.09    2.09   19.18   19.43    2.37   21.80
Other Equipment           0.71    0.31    1.02    0.80    0.36    1.16
Civil Works               4.17    0.46    4.63    4.74    0.52    5.26
Land                      1.06       -     1.06    1.20        -      1.20
Technical Assistance/
Training               0.04    0.18    0.22    0.06    0.20    0.26
Incremental Working
Capital                 1.76       -    1.76    2.00          -    2.00
Subtotal BEST         24.83    3.04   27.87   28.23    3.45   31.68
BMC
Equipment                 0.27    0.03    0.30    0.31    0.04    0.35
Civil Works               6.71    0.77    7.48    7.62    0.88    8.50
Land and Resettlement   0.28         -     0.28    0.32        -     0.32
Technical Assistance/
Training               0.04    0.18    0.22    0.06    0.20    0.26
Subtotal BMC            7.30    0.98    8.28    8.31    1.12    9.43
Subtotal Bus Ser-
vices Improvement  32.13    4.02   36.15   36.54    4.57   41.11
II. Development Planning and
Management
BMRDA
Technical Assistance/
Training               0.16    0.16    0.32    0.16    0.18    0.34
Base Cost Estimate           32.29    4.18   36.47   36.70    4.75   41.45
III.  Contingencies
a)  Physical                  1.09    0.12    1.21    1.24    0.13    1.37
b)  Price                     5.96    0.83    6.79    6.77    0.94    7.71
Subtotal Con-
tingencies           7.05    0.95    8.00    8.01    1.07    9.08
Total Estimated Project Costs    39.34    5.13   44.47   44.71    5.82   50.53 /1
/1   Of which an estimated total of US$6.76 million is in taxes and duties.



- 14 -
3.13      Estimated costs of buses are based on January 1976 quotations by
local and foreign manufacturers. Costs of spare parts and workshop/depot:
equipment are based on October 1975 estimates prepared by BEST. Costs of
traffic control equipment are derived from January 1976 estimates of the
Roads Department.  Estimated costs of civil works are based on quantities
derived from preliminary engineering, and partially detailed engineering,,
as of July 1976 by the Civil Engineering Department of BEST ard by the Rcads
Department of BMC. The estimated costs of technical assistance are based on
January 1976 consultant man-month rates. The rate for experts assumed :c be
recruited from abroad also include the current UNDP per diem allowance :-cr
expatriate experts in India and totals US$6,250 per man per mcnth.  Experts
assumed to be recruited locally are costed at US$2,200 per man. per month.
Physical contingencies of 10% on civil works with detailed engineering and 15%
on civil works with preliminary engineering are included. Price contin::,encies
totaling about 18% have been provided in accordance with current guidelines
for India (see Annex 7).
D.  Executior
3.14      BEST and BMC would execute the bus services improvement componuent
of the project. The Stores Department of BEST's transport division wouLd
procure bus chassis, bus bodies, spare parts, and workshop/depot equipment
and tools. Advertisement has recently been made for the first tranche of
procurement (see Annex 14). The Civil Engineering Department of BEST's
transport division would be responsible for land acquisition and supervision
of construction of civil works. Supervision of the works to be undertal.el by
contractors is additional to BEST's ongoing commitments and BEST will a:pDint
increased supervisory personnel as required.  Monitoring and supervisio: Df
overall physical and financial progress of BEST's project would be carr-:.ed out
by the Bus Operations and Management Task Force (see para 3.07) under it:s
Deputy General Manager.  These arrangements are adequate for BEST to carry
out its project execution functions (see Annex 4).
3.15      The Traffic Planning Division of BMC's Roads Department has ccompleted
the engineering design of traffic engineering works. Supervision of larld
acquisition and resettlement, construction, procurement of traffic contro:
equipment and its installation would be the responsibility of an Urban Trans-
port Project Unit which BMC has estab:Lished under the City Engineer (seE
Chart 15970). These arrangements are adequate for BMC to carry out its
project execution functions (see Annex 14).
3.16      BMRDA, through a Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit, would
administer BMRDA's project technical assistance and oversee project exec;I-
tion by BEST and BMC (see Annex 14).  Assurances were obtained at negotil-
tions that this unit will be established by December 31, 1976.



- 15 -
E. Financing
3.17      The proposed Bank loan of US$25.0 million (Rs 22.0 crores) would
cover 49% of total project costs and 57% of project costs net of taxes.
Project financing arrangements are summarized below:
Agency                               Source of Project Funds
Internal      Open Market    IBRD       Total
Funds       Borrowings       Loan
(Rs Crores)
BEST                             7.2 /1        9.0 /1        16.6        32.8
BMC                              6.3            -             5.0        11.3
BMRDA                             -                           0.4         0.4
Total             13.5           9.0           22.0        44.5
%               30            20             50         100
/1   The amounts of BEST internal funds and borrowings shown above are
estimated on the basis of total funds available from these sources
assigned proportionately to project and non-project transport invest-
ments to be undertaken during the project period (see para 5.19).
Details of onlending arrangements are contained in para 4.01 and BEST's
financing plan is shown in para 5.19. BMC will have adequate access to
open market borrowings and BMRDA loans to meet BEST's borrowing require-
ments.
F. Procurement
3.18      Bus chassis and bus bodies would be tendered separately, for
assembly in Bombay. It is expected that BEST would thereby benefit from
increased competition for the chassis, which is the more sophisticated part
of the bus unit. The chassis as specified are suitable for procurement
on the basis of international competitive bidding, and would attract major
manufacturers abroad besides those in India. The types of bus bodies called
for, however, are of a simple utilitarian design not commonly produced by
foreign manufacturers. In view of the costs involved, it is unlikely that
foreign manufacturers would be prepared to set up a special production line
for the number of body units required under the project particularly when
there are a large number of domestic body builders who can offer bodies at
substantially lower prices. For the same reasons, and because of the high
ocean transportation costs, ICB for completely assembled bus units would not
be expected to elicit foreign bids.



- 16 -
3.19      Bus chassis, chassis components and major workshop/machine shop
equipment valued at USS17.4 million equivalent would thus be procured by BEST
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guide-
lines. Major Indian manufacturers would participate in the bidding; they have
adequate production capacity and established parts and services facilities
in Bombay and have successfully competed in export markets in recent years.
Domestic suppliers would be accorded a preferential margin equal to 15% of the
c.i.f. costs of competing imports or the existing rate of duty, whichever is
lower. Correspondingly the contracts for supply and mounting of bus bodies
totaling US$9.0 million would be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Supply contracts for depot
equipment and tools and. traffic control equipment totaling US$0.7 million
would also be awarded by local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory
to the Bank. It is unlikely that foreign manufacturers would be prepared
to establish service facilities for this limited amount of equipment when
domestic manufacturers can offer the equipment at low prices. Civil works:;
contracts for construct:ion of depots, workshops, bus shelters/terminal anc,
traffic engineering works totaling US$19.0 million, would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory to
the Bank. About 50 individual contracts, ranging in value from US$10,000 to
US$2 million - of which two are expected to be in the region of US$1 to 2
million, with the bulk of contracts below US$100,000 - are unlikely to attract
international contractors. To minimize traffic disruptions, construction of
the traffic engineering schemes under the project will require implementation
schedules that are carefully balanced locationally and over time. Although
civil works contracts in the same area will be combined as far as practicJl,
it is not feasible to do this on a scale t:hat would be attractive to fore:.ga
contractors. Technical assistance specialists would be engaged under tern:s
and conditions acceptable to the Bank. Several BEST and BMC civil works
contracts are to be awarded in September 1976 and would be the suabject of
retroactive Bank financing not exceeding US$180,000. Retroactive financir.g
totalling US$20,000 would also be provided. for consultant services in prerara-
tion of the BMC components of the project.
G. Disbursement
3.20      The loan would be disbursed oIn the basis of 100% of the c.i.f. costs
of imported equipment and materials or the ex-factory costs of goods and
equipment procured from local manufacturers after international competitive
bidding, 100% of the costs of consulting services and training, a.nd 50% of the
costs of civil works and all other equipment and materials.  The estimated
disbursement schedule is shown as Annex 15.
H. Superision
3.21      About 120 man--weeks of Bank supervision will be required over th..
three-year project implementation period (see Annex 14).



- 17 -
IV. THE BORROWER AND THE BENEFICIARY
4.01      The borrower would be the BMRDA and the principal beneficiary would
be BMC, with which a Loan and a Project Agreement, respectively, have been
negotiated. An agreement with GOM was negotiated to insure compliance of
BMRDA and BMC with the Loan and Project Agreements.  A Guarantee Agreement
with GOI for payment of principal and interest on the Loan was negotiated.
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement between BMRDA and BMC will provide for the on-
lending of the proposed Bank Loan at an interest rate identical to that of
the Loan Agreement plus a 0.5% relending fee (see para 5.18). BMC would
retain part of the proceeds of the subsidiary loan for its Roads Depart-
ment at a maturity equal to that of the Bank loan (20 years including 4 1/2
years grace and would make the remainder available to BEST at the same in-
terest rate and a maturity of 15 years including three years grace. These
terms reflect the economic life of BMC and BEST assets to be created under
the project.
A. BMRDA
4.02      BMRDA was established in 1975 by the Bombay Metropolitan Region
Development Authority Act, 1974 (BMRDA Act). Its organization, functions and
powers are described in Annex 2. A Bombay Metropolitan Region Development
Authority (Amendment) Act, 1976 (BMRDA (A) Act), the content of which was
discussed at appraisal, became effective in July 1976. The BMRDA (A) Act
clarifies the powers and functions of the Authority, the establishment and
constitution of the Authority's constituent organizational units, the defini-
tion of the duties of its officers and the establishment of its funds and
accounts (see Annex 2).
4.03      BMRDA is governed by an Authority and is administered through a
Standing Committee, an Executive Committee and a Metropolitan Commissioner --
a chief executive officer appointed by GOM (see Annex 2 and Chart 15968).
There are three advisory functional boards: Transport and Communications,
Housing, Urban Renewal and Ecology, and Water Resources Management. Several
staff units report to the Metropolitan Commissioner, one for each functional
board, a Traffic Planning and Evaluation Subcommittee (TPES), Town and Country
Planning Division, and Accounting and Financial Management Department (see
Annex 2). Most senior appointments had been made, including the Metropolitan
Commissioner, a Financial Adviser, and the Chairman, members, and member
secretaries of the Functional Boards.
4.04      The key initial tasks and staff positions of the three Functional
Boards, the Traffic Planning and Evaluation subcommittee, the Project Coordi-
nation and Monitoring Unit and of the key staff of the Accounting and Finan-
cial Management Department and the Town and Country Planning Division are



- 18 -
shown in Annex 2. BMRDA has adopted resolutions defining the initial subj-o
ect areas of the Funct:ional Boards and the Town and Country Planning Division
and the initial work program for the Traffic Planning and Evaluation Subcor-
mittee. Technical assiLstance and training to be provided to BMRDA is sum-
marized in paras 3.09 to 3.11.  BMRDA's finances are examined in paras 5.15
to 5.18.
4.05      An Accounting, and Finance Management Division of BMRDA includinf
key posts and financial and loan fund regulations has been established by
resolution of the Authority and key personnel appointed. At negotiations,
assurances were received that an annual audit satisfactory to the Bank
would be made of the accounts and financial statements of BMRDA with
audited statements made available within eight months of the end of the
financial year.
B. BMC/BEST
4.06      BMC is established under the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act of
1888 (BMC Act) as the autonomous authority for municipal services in Greater
Bombay including bus transport and electricity services provided by its
semi-autonomous undertaking, BEST. Under the elected Corporation are four
statutory committees including one which has jurisdiction over BEST (see
Chart 15969).  The Municipal Commissioner, appointed by GOM is thte chief
executive controlling all departments including the Roads Department which
is responsible for traffic engineering and road works (see Chart 15970).
BMC has performed well in the execution of the water supply and Sewerage
project under its Water Supply and Sewerage Department (WSSD) (see para
5.01). Audits satisfactory to the Bank on the BMC Roads Department
and appropriate sections of the BMC accounts will be made available to the
Bank.
4.07      BEST is an undertaking of BMC responsible for the operation of bis
transport services in Greater Bombay and the distribution of electricity ii
the Island City (see Anntex 8). The BEST administration, under a General NMir.-
ager, operates with a considerable degree of independence from the rest of
BMC but is supervised by the Municipal Commissioner (see Chart 15971).  BE3,
has a staff of nearly 24,000 and is one of the largest and more efficient
public operators of urban bus services in India. GOM has amended the BMC Act
to facilitate contracting by BEST under the project.  By these amendments  Sne
BEST Committee and the Corporation will have 30 days to consider sanctioninig
of contracts referred to them by the General Manager after which time thei
sanction will be deemed to have been given.
4.08      BEST conducts a continuous internal audit by a department under 'he
General Manager and an external audit is performed by the Municipal Chief
Auditor, a BMC officer whose reports are made to the BEST Committee and the



- 19 -
Corporation. The performance of the Municipal Chief Auditor has been found
satisfactory on the basis of his reports on BEST and his performance in a
similar role as external auditor for the WSSD of BMC under the water supply
and sewerage project (Credit 390-IN).  During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that an annual audit satisfactory to the Bank will be made and that
audited accounts would be available within nine months of the end of the
financial year.
V. FINANJCE
A. BMC
5.01      BMC has the largest annual municipal revenue and capital budgets in
India and has consistently adopted responsible, albeit conservative financial
policies. BMC has three fiscal divisions (i) BEST; (ii) Water Supply and
Sewerage (WSSD); and (iii) the general budget for remaining services includ-
ing social services, roads, street cleaning, public health, refuse collection
and disposal, and city administration. BMC's 1976-77 revenue budget is about
Rs 178.8 crores (US$203 million) with operating expenses and debt service
of about Rs 154.4 crores (US$175 million). The surplus will be utilized to
meet capital expenditures including complying with an IDA covenant (para
5.03). General services in 1976-77 will cost about Rs 60 crores (US$68
million) including debt service and will be financed fully by general rev-
enues, principally from property tax -- Rs 23 crores (US$26 million) -- and
octroi tax -- Rs 26 crores (US$30 million). Despite inflationary pressures
(para 5.07), BMC has maintained a surplus cash balance on the general ser-
vices account in compliance with a requirement of the BMC Act and has never
defaulted on debt services. However, BMC is unable to meet the demand for
expansion of services, particularly in the social sector, to provide for the
needs of an ever-growing population. Property tax and octroi are restricted
sources of taxation and the discouragement of, or removal of industry from
Greater Bombay has imposed a further limitation on fiscal growth. The BMC
Act provides for BEST to contribute to BMC revenues through transfer of a
minimum of Rs 40 lakhs (US$0.5 million) from its annual surplus 1/. In
recent years, however, BEST has not made adequate provision for replace-
ment and expansion for its own services and has had little or no surplus
for distribution.  The accumulated deficit in distribution of BEST sur-
pluses as of Mlarch 31, 1976 was about Rs 3.5 crores (US$4.0 million) (see
para 5.08).
1/   The balance of revenues less expenditures, financing charges, depreciation
and other statutory charges.



- 20 -
5.02      The Rs 10.8 crores (US$12.3 million) BMC roads and traffic component
of the project would be financed with borrowings by BMC (including the Bank
loan) as part of the BMC annual general. loan works budget in which adequate
provision has been made for 1976-77 for commencement of the works. The oper-
ating costs and debt service on these works, estimated on completion in 1979-
80 at Rs 1.4 crores (US$1.5 million) would be about 8% of the forecast annual
roads budget or 2% of t-he probable total general budget of BMC. On the basis
of past and. current financial performance by BMC, adequate revenues from
property tax and octroi' should be available to meet these expenditures.  BMC
will make available to the Bank each year copies of the appropriate sections
of its budget relating to these works.
5.03      In 1973, BMC and IDA signed the water supply and sewerage Project
Agreement (Credit 390-IN) for a WSSD project now estimated to cost about
US$280 million equivalent, for which IDA is providing a US$55 million crediit.
BMC, through WSSD, is in compliance with all financial covenants, includinlg
financing 40% of annual. project expenditures from revenues. To meet the
covenants BMC introduced sewerage taxes and charges and increased existing
water taxes and charges in 1973-74 and 1974-75. The yield was a net increase
of about 93% on WSSD revenues. These WSSD service taxes and charges were
increased again by BMC in April 1976 by about 40% to meet higher operating
costs and forecast cost overruns on the project.
B. BEST
Past Performance
5.04      BCG, in accordance with the BIMC Act, permits BEST to operate fir.,an-
cially as a semi-autonomous undertaking. BMC exercises supervisory control
primarily through (i) approval of electricity rate and bus fare increases;
(ii) approval of annual budgets proposed by BEST; and (iii) the guidance of
the Municipal Commissioner (para 4.06). BMC has not established formal
guidelines for the financial operation of BEST, except those relating to
disposal of surpluses contained in the BMC Act (para 5.08). BEST' has not
been required to establish targets for electricity or transport services,
or any inter-divisional fiscal relationship. 'iHowever, BEST has over time
adopted a de facto policy of providing capital resources for transport fro-l
electricity surpluses. This policy is reflected in the fiscal situation
disclosed at appraisal whereby transport had working and operating ratios
considerablv in excess of 100, while electricity was below 100 (Annex 11).
5.05      For the seven fiscal years ending March 1976, BEST had an accu-
mulated net deficit after meeting all financing charges, appropriations anm:
depreciation on transport and electricity of Rs 2.8 crores (US$3.2 million:>.
The largest annual combined deficit of Rs :2.5 crores (US$2.9 million) occurred



- 21 -
in 1973-74.  Although this deficit was reduced by 60% in the following year,
after fare and electricity rate increases, it rose due to inflation by Rs 0.3
crores (US$340,000) to Rs 3.7 crores (US$4.2 million) in 1975-76 -- increases
in electricity rates in October 1975 and a bus fare increase in December
1975 coming too late to prevent the deficit in that fiscal year. Since 1969-
70, transport has incurred annual deficits totaling 19.2 crores (US$21.8
million), while electricity had annual surpluses totaling Rs 14.3 crores
(US$16.2 million). The lowest transport deficit in recent years -- Rs 0.9
crores (US$1.0 million) -- occurred in 1971-72 with deficits rising annually
to Rs 4.6 crores (US$5.2 million) in 1975-76. A primary purpose of the
proposed loan under the project is to meet a financing gap caused by the
inability of BEST to develop adequate cash flows for assets replacement and
expansion of bus services, arising from these recent deficits.
5.06      Factors contributing to the less than satisfactory financial perfor-
mance of BEST from 1969-70 to 1975-76 include: (i) introduction by GOM of
a passenger tax of 5% of revenues (reduced to 3.5% from 1976-77); (ii) high
rates of inflation in 1973-75, and (iii) a mandatory distribution of surpluses
to BMC. Following introduction of the passenger tax in 1967, BMC conducted
protracted negotiations with GOM on the impact of this levy and simultaneously
did not permit BEST to pay over the amounts due. In 1975/76 the matter was
resolved and payment was made by BEST to GOM. However, because BMC was
reluctant to increase fares during this period of this extended dialogue, the
yield of BEST traffic revenues declined relative to operating expenses.
5.07      Inflation in Bombay probably increased BEST's bus operating costs by
about 8% in 1973-74, 26% in 1974-75, and 9% in 1975-76. Price increases were
particularly high on fuel and on wages, which are indexed to cost-of-living.
Electricity operating costs rose by 78% in these three years. Bus fare and
electricity rate increases in 1974 and 1975 were too little and too late to
prevent continuation of deficits in those fiscal years (para 5.05).
5.08      The disposal of surpluses appears to have adversely influenced
BEST's fiscal performance. Under the BMC Act, BEST has to transfer annually
Rs 40 lakhs (US$0.5 million) to the BMC general funds, and above Rs 40 lakhs
a defined proportion of any remaining surplus. This applies even if BMC
should not grant BEST fare or rate increases to provide adequate surpluses,
and BMC may collect arrears of annual payments from future years' surpluses.
This provision does not provide BEST with incentives for efficient operation
nor for generation of adequate surpluses for reinvestment. Financial projec-
tions (Annexes 11 and 12) have been prepared on the basis of the existing law,
but without recovery by BMC of the outstanding arrears (para 5.01). By
September 30, 1977 BMIC will review the operation of the BMC Act in respect
of the distribution of BEST surpluses to determine a system likely to improve
the efficiency of BEST operations and provide incentives for generation of
surpluses for reinvestment by BEST and will consult with the Bank on their
findings. Until the results of the above review have been discussed with the
Bank, BMC will not seek to recover the arrears of surpluses distribution due
from BEST as at March 31, 1976 if such action would be likely to leave BEST
with insufficient working capital. BMC would cause BEST from 1977/78 to



- 22 -
(i) budget each year to meet any loss incurred by BEST in the previous year
including provision for at least the statutory minimum annual distribution of
surpluses to BMC of Rs 40 lakhs in that year; and (ii) fix such rates and
charges as will meet the forecast expenditures of BEST in the budget year and
to recover any losses and/or shortfalls in surplus distribution arising frorl
the previous year's operations. BMC will provide the Bank with a copy of tne
approved BEST budget for each year by not later than May 31 of that year.
5.09       The following table summarizes the past and forecast results of
operations from 1973-74 through 1980-81._
BEST--COMPARATIVE OPERATING STATEMENT
(Rs Crores)
For the Years Ending March 31
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   198G   1981
Actual                        Forecast
TRANSPORT
Operating Revenue             19.82  26.41  30.47  37.22  44.67  52.26  61.1'r 69.50
Working Expenditure           19.26  24.93  27.54  33.88  39.69  45.89  52.16  58.74
Net Working Revenue            0.56   1.48   2.93   3.34   4.98   6.37   8.98  10.76
Depreciation /1                2.72   3.54   4.70   5.80   7.14   8.17   9.65  10.68
Net Operating Revenue        -2.16  -2.06  -*1.77  -2.46  -2.16  -1.80  -0.6,'   0.08
ELECTRICITY
Net Operating Revenue          0.54   1.49   0.69   3.68   4.32   5.01   5.38   5.65
-1.62  -0.57  -1.08   1.22   2.16   3.21   4.7.1   5.73
ADMINISTRATIVE INCOME AND
CHARGES
Other Receipts /2              2.51   3.41   3.34   4.16   4.76   5.44   6.14   6.84
Less Interest, Taxes
and Appropriations         -3.43  -3.78  -5.32  -6.15  -7.04  -7<99  -8.44  -9.32
-  92  -  37  -1.98  -1.99  -2.28  -2.55  -2.30  -2.48
NET SURPLUS AFTER ADMINIS-
TRATIVE INCOME AND CHARGE_   -2.54  -0.94  -3.06  -0.77  -0.12   0.66   2.41   3.25
WORKING-RATIO - TRANSPORT          97      94      90      91     89      88      85      85
OPERATING RATIO - TRANSPORT    111    108    106    107    105    103    101    100
/1   Based on revalued assets from 1977.
/2   Includes sale of scrap, advertising and investment income.



- 23 -
Future Prospects
5.10      BMC has agreed to take all necessary actions including bus fare
and electricity tariff revisions by BEST to insure that for each financial
year commencing 1977/78 BEST will:  (i) recover its operating expenses,
taxes, debt service, including provisions for sinking funds and statutory
contributions to BMC; (ii) take all reasonable steps to recover any loss
incurred by BEST in the previous financial year; and (iii) to the extent
that any such loss is not recovered in the financial year after the one
in which it is incurred, recover such loss in the next financial year.
BMC intends, as one of the objectives of this project, to enable BEST to
finance the costs of transport operations out of transport revenues and
to achieve this objective BMC will require BEST to continue to improve the
operating and financial performances of its transport operations. In the
meantime, BMC will insure that BEST's Transport Operating Division is pro-
vided through 1980/81 with sufficient revenues to meet operating expenses,
taxes (including GOM passenger taxes), payment of interest and principal
on loans allocated to the Transport Operating Division and a reasonable
allowance for working capital. The major factors inhibiting BEST's
achievement of adequate financial performance during the past several
years should not apply in the future. The passenger tax issue is now
resolved, inflation is now low and the proposed review of the BMC Act
with respect to surplus distributions should result in increased incen-
tives for financial management. BEST should be able therefore to make
early and meaningful improvements to its financial position. BEST has
three financial objectives for the short- and medium-term through 1980-81
and 1985-86 respectively -- (i) improve the overall financial performance
of the undertaking, including reduction in the dependence of transport on
internal funds generated by electricity; (ii) provide adequate funds for
replacement and expansion of the bus fleet; and (iii) reduce costs of oper-
ation to minimize need for rate and/or tariff revisions.
5.11      Forecasts of operating expenditures, depreciation, debt service
and cash flows for transport and for electricity consistent with these objec-
tives are given in Annexes 10, 11, 12 and 13. In order to provide adequate
cash flows for replacement and expansion of the bus fleet and reduce the
reliance on electricity cash generation, the transport division would need
to move from the present operating ratios 1/ of about 106 to about 100 from
1980-81. Thereafter the ratio should be in the range 95-100. In 1973-74,
BEST recognized the inadequacy of its depreciation provision and commenced
providing 150% of the normal amounts. In the short-term these provisions
approximate to the sums which should be provided on re-valued assets to
1/   The operating ratio is the percentage of operating costs to operating
revenue.  Operating costs include depreciation, but exclude interest,
taxes on revenues and appropriations.



24 -
reflect the effects of che recent high inflation.  Projections have been
prepared on this basis, but BMC proposes to review this current method
and consult with the Bank before the introduction of any revised methods.
Further steps by BMC to meet the financial objectives include: (i) com-
pletion of studies acceptable to the Bank by December 31, 1978 to:
(a) examine the capacityT of bus users to meet the costs of BEST's trans-
port operations; (b) review the bus fare structure of BEST by the Bus
Operations and Management Task Force (para 3.07), with the objective of
determining the optimum bus routing and fare structure and settirg a
schedule for their implementation; (ii) implementation by BEST of recom-
mendations of the studies in (i) (a) above acceptable to the Bank and BMC;
(iii) discussing with the Bank by August 31 in each year, BEST's transport
operating performance targets for the next following financial year, in
light of the benefits expected from the Project, with financial quantifi-
cation of such improvements, and making provision in BEST's budget for the
financial effect of achi.eving the improved operating performance targets.
BMC will also by August 31 in each year review with the Bank BEST's per-
formance targets for the preceding financial year; and (iv) subject to the
recomm.endations of the Etudies in (i) above, BEST will make provision in
the 1980/81 transport operations budget to achieve an operating ratio of
100, but should this not be achieved, the Bank would be consulted on the
financing or other provision to be made to meet any deficit. The imple-
mentation of these assurances should provide adequate cash flows with sur-
plus for reinvestment after 1979-80. Future BMRDA assistance for trans-
port financing could be limited to loans for fleet expansion only, which
would be related to anticipated BMRDA mass--transit development guidelines
for BMR.
Bus and Electricity Rates
5.12      In the absence of explicit fiscal targets for each division (pare
5.04), bus faIres and electricity rates have evolved from pragmatic assessmE1t;s
of acceptabiLity of increases in each tariff, and on BEST assumption of equity
achievement by meeting bus capital and equity provisions from electricity sxr-
pluses. The structure and levels of current electricity and bus tariffs
(Annex 9) were introduced in October and December 1975 respectively.  Althoigh
the cost-of-living index in Bombay increased by about 150% since 1966 throuq h
end-1975, bus fares rose by only about 56%, so declining substantially in r.al
terms.  However, electricity rates have more realistically matched increase:
in operating costs, primarily because BEST has to maintain, adequate workin.
capital and sufficient cash flows to purchase bulk supplies. Since October
1975 the electricity tariff also includes an automatic fuel adjustment clau.e.
BEST electricity rates are generally equal to, or lower than those of two
neighboring utilitites for domestic consumers and higher for industrial
consumers (Annex 9).



- 25 -
5.13      The 1976-77 through 1980-81 forecasts assume that BEST as a whole
would earn a surplus after provision for taxes working capital and adequate
reserves at least equal to the statutory minimum distribution to BMC (see
para 5.08). The transport division would meet operating expenses including
depreciation and after 1980-81 should be in a position to contribute to
reserves. From 1977-78 it is assumed that electricity rates would be in-
creased only to the extent of the automatic fuel adjustment charge provided
for in existing tariffs and that bus operating efficiency would be improved
or fares would be increased to achieve a reduction in the operating ratio of
transport division from 106 in 1976 to 100 in 1980-81.  During the execution
of the project, improvements in operating efficiency should result, but if
these do not materialize, fare increases in real terms will be necessary.
The forecasts in Annex 11 include fare increases in real terms of about
8% of the next five-year period, in addition to increases necessitated by
forecast cost escalation. The studies on capacity of bus users to pay
higher fares (para 5.11) will be used to determine the fare limits accept-
able in Bombay.
Future Financial Management of BEST
5.14      To achieve BEST's third objective of reducing costs of operation
and increasing financial efficiency (para 5.10) improved financial targets
and expeditious and meaningful reporting are necessary.  Currently fiscal
planning does not have the importance afforded to capital expenditure and
operations planning by the operating divisions. GOM has amended the BMC Act
to establish the position of Chief Accounts Officer as a statutory post and
BMC will agree with the Bank on an appropriate job description. .However, to
insure performance, in addition to the annual reviews of targets between the
Bank and BEST (para 5.11) BEST as a part of the activities of the Bus Operation
and Management Task Force (para 3.07), will revise its financial planning
procedures and will install an improved costing system by April 1978.
C. BMRDA
5.15      The 1975 assessment of the urban development needs of Bombay by a
GOI/GOM committee (para 2.18 and Annex 1, Table 3) defined the sectors for
urgent development and estimated the probable costs of public investments
commencing during the remainder of the Fifth Five-Year Plan 1974-79 at Rs 618
crores (US$702 million). While this investment requirement could be consid-
ered as a desirable minimum, many of the institutional sources of funding pro-
posed in the report are unlikely to be forthcoming, and two minority observa-
tions attached to the committee's report support this view. Only GOM and BMC
are likely to achieve their investments in this ambitious program. However,



- 26 -
these proposals do establish the magnitude of the investment expectations for
which BMRDA must develop adequate review mechanisms and subsequent planning,
development and financing systems in order to supervise and assist in imple-
menting a viable regional development program.
5.16      BMRDA, being still in a formative stage (paras 2.21 and 4.02), has
not yet taken action to review either these regional proposals, or to develop
an investment and funding program and related budgets. Proposed technical
assistance inputs (para 3.09) should enable BMRDA to effectively discharge
these responsibilitites. GOI and GOM requested the channeling of this project
loan through BMRDA, as a means of encouraging early and planned development of
BMRDA as a development finance agency. Without the project and the inputs
proposed by the Bank during BMRDA formation, BMRDA's development could be
slower, thus retarding the implementation of a viable development program for
the BMR.
5.17      BMRDA will prepare two principal forms of budgets:  (i) annual
budgets providing capital requirements for regional development and for
BMRDA internal operations; and (ii) five-year or medium-/long-term budgets
for regional investment. BMRDA will annually provide the Bank with copies
of all approved budgets by May 31 of each year and that by September 30, 19;7
BMRDA will provide the Bank with the first draft five-year regional investm:nt
budget for 1977-78 to 1978-82.  These documents will be reviewed against the
existing Regional Plan (para 2.17) and the 1975 GOI/GOM Committee recpmmen-
dations (paras 2.18 and 5.15) and the criteria recommended by the proposed
development planning technical assistance (para 3.02) to assess (i) feasibi2l-
ity; (ii) BMRDA's management, organizational, planning and financial develoli-
ment; and (iii) regional resource requirements and possible relationship to
future GOI/Bank operations.
5.18      BMRDA, during the next few years, may have to rely on GOM4 budgetary
support for financing its internal operations, because it may not generate
sufficient revenues from its early operations to support the necessary re-
search, planning, project monitoring and financial staffs. BMRDA's principc.l
revenues will be from charges for services provided to authorities in the BIR
and from loan charges made to borrowers including the 0.5% surcharge on the
Bank loan to BMC (see para 4.01). GOM may guarantee BMRDA loans and thereby
provide security to lenders. GOM will annually review BMRDA financial per-
formance and as necessary make available to BMRDA sufficient funds for BMRDA
to meet its obligations. Through 1975-76 BMRDA received Rs 3.0 crores
(US$3.4 million) in grants from GOM and Rs 1.5 crores (US$1.7 million) in
loans from GOI as initial contributions to the Development Fund (Annex 2)
and has commenced making small loans to local authorities including BMC on
an immediate needs basis, pending development of its own medium- and long-
term plans.



- 27 -
D. Financing Plan
5.19      The funds for this project would be utilized by BMRDA, BMC and BEST.
Until the BMRDA capital budgets and five-year forecasts are received (para
5.17) and a meaningful BMRDA financial plan can be developed, the Bank should
rely on GOM guarantees of BMRDA performance and funding (para 5.18). For BMC,
the project funds and the operations and maintenance costs of the roads
component will form a very small part of the BMC general budget (para 5.02)
and revenues from property tax and octroi should be adequate to service these
capital expenditures. The financing plan for BEST for the transport and
electricity operations combined from 1976-77 through 1980-81 is given below.
This table presents the project period (October 1976 through September 1979)
within the five-year development period 1976-77 through 1980-81, which will be
the probable minimum period necessary to achieve significant improvements in
BEST financial performance.
Project Period         Development Period
Oct. 1976-Sept. 1979       1976-77 to 1980-81
Rs Crores  US$ Million   Rs Crores  US$ Million
Application of Funds
Capital Expenditures
Transport                            36.90      42.07          57.90       66.01
Electricity                          13.05      14.88          23.05       26.28
Sub-total                          49.95      56.95          80.95       92.29
BMC Transfer                             1.64      1.87           2.72        3.10
GOM Tax                                 4.86       5.54           8.96       10.21
increase in Cash Balances               0.52       0.59           0.72        0.82
Working Capital, etc. increase (net)  1.95         2.22           2.94        3.34
Total Applications                     58.92      67.17          96.29      109.76
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation
Transport                            17.50      19.95          34.63       39.48
Electricity                          31.70      36.14          55.46       63.22
Sub-total                          49.70      56.09          90.09      102.70
Less Debt Service                      27.85      31.75          44.12       50.30
Sub-total net cash                 21.35      24.34          45.97       52.40
Sale of Assets                          3.58       4.08           7.41        8.45
Investments (net)                       8.36       9.53          10.78       12.29
33.29     37.95          64.16       73.14
Loans - BMRDA                                                      1.50       1.71
BMRDA/IBRD                     16.63      18.96          16.63       18.96
Market borrowings               9.00      10.26          14.00       15.95
Sub-total loans           25.63      29.22          32.13       36.62
Total Sources              58.92     67.17          96.29      109.76



- 28 -
5.20      BEST will genierate about 50% of its investment requiremnents
during the development period. By the early 1980s, the transport divi-
sion should also be generating about 50% of its investment requirements.
Adequate debt service provision is made by use of the sinking fund or by
annual installment payments to lenders. The debt/equity ratio at the end
of 1975-76 was 64:36 and will move to about 56:44 in 1980-81 which is a
more satisfactory position. The present borrowing limit of BEST is defined
in the BMC Act as double the rateable value of premises in Greater Bombay
assessable to property tax. This ceiling would allow BEST to borrow up to
about Rs 200 crores (US$227 million) whiLch is an unreasonable amount. BMC
has agreed that: (i) BEST would not incur any long-term debt unless the the
net revenue of BEST, for suitably prescribed periods, is not less than 1.4.
times the maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding fiscal year;
and (ii) BEST's short-term debt will not exceed 35% of BEST's long term
debt.
5.21      The overall financing plan as proposed is satisfactory, and through
the various assurances obtained from BMC to improve the BEST transport divi-
sion's performance, the undertaking should be in a satisfactory financial
condition by 1980-81 anid be capable of supporting reasonable requirements
for expansion or variation of services as may arise from BMRDA transport
sector policy guidelines. Such requirements should not necessitate substan--
tial external financial support as has occurred during the project period,
in order to replace part of the existing bus fleet and meet limited expan-
sion requirements.
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
6.01      The proposed bus service improvements would alleviate major inade-
quacies of the public transport system and would support efforts to make
better use of existing transport resources while longer-term transport
options are being investigated.
6.02      The major direct beneficiaries would be bus passengers, other road
transport users including BEST itself, taxis, private cars and goods vehicLEs
and pedestrians. Only some of the benefits accruing to these groups can be
quantified and the distribution of benefits between them can only be generally
determined. Bus passen,gers, who will be the most important beneficiaries,
represent a broad cross-section of Bombay's population, most being between
the 25th and 75th income percentiles.
6.03      The economic evaluation of the major subcomponents of bus servici
improvements has been made in accordance with the methodology contained in
Annex 6.  The economic impacts of the subcomponents examined are summarized.
as follows:
(a) replacement of overage buses would reduce operating costs
of BEST's bus fleet and would increase service availabil-
ity and use of buses: economic rate of return 40%;



- 29 -
(b)  augmentation of the bus fleet and supporting facilitities
would increase service availability and use of buses:
economic rate of return 27%; and
(c)  traffic circulation improvements on high frequency bus
routes would reduce operating costs of vehicles and of
passenger travel by buses and other vehicles and would
increase sevice availability and use of buses: economic
rate of return 24%.
The overall economic return of the bus services improvements would be about
28%.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following points:
(a)  Employment of consultants and training programs, (paras
3.07, 3.08 and 3.11);
(b)  establishment of a Bus Operations and Management Task
Force with improved financial planning and costing
systems for BEST (para 3.07 and 5.14);
(c)  establishment of a BMRDA project coordination and
monitoring unit (para 3.16);
(d)  provision of funds to enable BMRDA and BMC/BEST
to complete the project (para 4.01);
(e)  annual audits of the accounts and financial statements
of BMRDA, BMC and BEST (paras 4.05, 4.06 and 4.08);
(f)  making available copies of BMRDA, BMC and BEST approved
budgets (paras 5.02, 5.08 and 5.17);
(g)  review of distribution of BEST surpluses (para 5.08);
(h)  financial performance of BEST and the BEST transport
operations from 1977-78 through 1980-81 (paras 5.08
and 5.10);
(i)  BEST annual depreciation provisions and debt service
provisions (paras 5.11 and 5.20);
(j)  appointment of BEST Chief Accounts Officer (para
5.14); and



- 30 -
(k) review of the BMRDA first draft: five-year BMR investment:
budget for 1977-78 to 1981-82 (para 5.17).
7.02      With the indicated assurances, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for Bank Loan of US$25 million equivalent to the Bombay
Metropolitan Region Development Authority, for a term of 20 years including
a 4-1/2 year grace period.



ANNEX 1
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Urban Development and Transport
1.        This annex summarizes selected aspects of urban develooment and
transport in the BiLR under the following headings:
Urban Development:
- Population and Employment
- Incomes
- Investment Requirements
- Development, Control
-   win City/New Town Development,
-  Future Planning and Programming
TransDort:
- Institutional Setting
- Present, Transport System
- Past Investment
- Vehicle Population
-  Modal Distribution of Travel
- Mass Transit Ridership
- Future Transport Development and Planning
A. Urban Development
2.        Population and Employment:  The rapid growth of population in the
BMR and its recent concentration in the suburbs is shown in Table 1. The
table also shows the employment concentration in the Island City. and gives
an indication of the increasing separation of jlobs and residences in the
BMR. The census does not include employment at workplace and the last
measurement of this vital information was in the Mass aransportation Study
in 1968. BIMRDA is to supervise a workplace survey which is soon to be
undertaken by consultants (see Annex 2).
3.        Incomes:  The buoyant economy of the BP2, based on diversified
industrial and commercial activity, generates a per capita annual income
estimated at about Rs. 1, D0, possibly three times that of the rest of
Maharastra end probably the highest of any urban center in India. With
rapid immigration, however, there is a substantial and growing low-income
population.  Existing income data is not highly reliable.  A recent surrey
indicates that 330o of households have incomes below Rs. 300 per month and
a further 20% have incomes between Rs. 300 and 400 per month (see Table 2).



A1NNEX 1
Page 2
Investment Reqllirements:  One of the not,able features of the
BM,fs development even after publication of the Regional Plan has been
that public investment pronosals by principal agencies have far exceeded
available or likely resources.  In oart this has resulted from the Regional
Plan's lack of clear guidance on investment priorities and means of
funding.  It is also due in pFrt t,o a.n unexpected public finance squeeze
and rapidly rising costs in thie early to mid-1970s
5.        A recent reassessment of investment and resource mobilization
requirements in support of the Regional Plan was made by a "SSecretaries
Committee" of GOI and GOK officials appointed by GOI in June 1974.  It
examined transport. housing, water supply and sewerage and inclustrial
decentralization schemes proposed to commence in the Fifth Plan period,
determined pro ject, priorities and assessed the availability of resources
for schemes. In its report issued in. m:id-1975. t+he Committee identifiel
an investment program commencing in the Fifth Plan period which together
with other assumed committed schemes would total Ps. 618 crores
(IJS$702 million), most of which for water supply, housing and public
transport facilities in or ad,acent to existing urbanized areas (see Table 3).
About. Rs. 241 crores of the investment funds required were assumed to be
made available by GONI and BMC and Rs. 21 crores of IBRD funds were assumed
to be provided through BMRDA for the urban transport project.  The bulk of
financing, however, vras proposed to be provided by market and indstitutional
borrowing controlled byv the central government (Rs. 91 crores), investment
of central ministries (Ps. 128 crores) and direct central assistance
(Rs. 135 crores) including IDA funds of Es. 42 crores for the Bombay Wa,er
Supply and Sewerage Protect.  These proposals, although modest in compa:-ison
with previous claims for central resources for urban development in Bom5ay,
substantially overestimate likely central funding. and do not include tlie
necessary mobilization or regional investmenr resources oy Y!lhD'1A.  The
Secretaries Committee proposals, therefore, though useful, have merely ..et
the stage for more serious funding discussions between G001 and GOI and :'or
a further more critical examination of oriorities and resource availabi.ity
in the region by BMPDA (see pera 8).
6.        Development Control:  Despite increasing concern over commerc:.aL
concentration in the central area, private office development has remaired
unchecked by building controls and public sector developments including a
ma-or State Governmen.t land reclamation scheme started a number of year<.
ago at Backbav have themselves been major causes of growth.  T"e Backbay
protect, even though recently scaled dorn in size, may by 1981 add another
18D,3O3 tlobs in the central area and a nearly equivalent numDer of long
distance commuters.  G0M is now preparing office space construction
and conversion regulations and BMCDA haas powers to notify and control
selected types of develo-pment.  BNEDA presently has no development control_
review and enforcement capability, however, and progress in this difficu.it
area is likely to be slow.



A'<lNEX 1
Page 3
7.        Twin City/New Town Development:  The Twin City project presents
Bombay with an alternative for the future but a continuing dilemna for
the allocation of present investment resources. The project is large and
will require substantial public resource inputs in part because the site
is not within the main develooment corridor which has attracted private
investment (see Nlaps 12215 and 11941).  Because the project was intended
to be a departure from previous regional development patterns, planning
and investment in the Twin Citv has had little to do with the relief of
immediate and high priority needs in the areas of present development
pressures. Development standards have also been set unrealistically high
and to the exclusion of lower-income groups. Public investment there has
been largely absorbed in land acquisition. Private investment, population
settlement and economic activity in the Twin City remains of minor
importance in regional terms.
5.        CIDCO has recently prepared a revised development plan for the
Twin City which has attempted to gear the development of the area more
closely to the immediate needs and available resources of the BMR.  It has
also re-examined development standards and has started a large sites and
services project a portion of its land most accessible to Greater Bombay.
Additional revision of standards and plans are required to make the
Twin City an effective development force in the BMR.
9.        Planning and implementation of small scale new and expanded
town schmes in the rapidly industrializing Thana-Kalyan-Ulhasnagar corridor
has been neglected. BMRDA is now to become the planning authority for the
Kalyan industrial complex and to expedite needed works there.
13.       Future Planning and Programming:  BMRDA is to undertake the key
planning and programming tasks of immediate importance in resolving major
outstanding development issues (see Annex 2). The major issues to be
addressed include:
(a) coordination of investment proposals of individual agencies
and the setting of priorities in relation to available
funding;
(b)  preparation of needed sectoral planning analyses;
(c) preparation of traffic management guidelines and
action proposals;
(d)  preparation of guidelines for revision of the Development
Plan for Greater Bombay; and
(e)  preparation of an outline development plan for the Kalyan
Industria l complex.
In time B1LRDA should also develop the capability to exercise the much
needed development control powers which it has (see para 6).



ANN-\EX 1
Page 4
B. Transport
11.       Institutional Setting:  Important responsibilities for transport
in Bombay are divided between numerous central, state, municipal and
special function authorities. GOI through the Indian Railways and its
two divisions the Western and Central Railways, is responsible for rail
transport including vital suburban Dassenger services. Through an ad hoc
Indian Railways planning group known as the Mass Transportation ProJect,
it has planned two future subways for Bombay and through various
metropolitan assistance funds has provided small amounts of financing for
mass transport improvement. The Bombay Port Trust, with central and loca-
representation, operates the Port of Bombay. GOM, through its FPublic
Works Department, constructs and maintains ma4or inter-regional roads in
the BMR including Greater Bombay and in the early 160s prepared a road
development plan for Bombay. GOM has also maintained a traffic cell which
in the late 1960s undertook mass transit demand studies and more recently
a program of detailed road traffic analyses for the central area. The
Police, under state government administration, are responsible for rocd
traffic control and enf'orcement. A Regional Transport Authority regulates
road transport carriers including bus services. Two state government
corporations, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation and the Cily
and Industrial Development Corporation operate bus services outside Greater
Bombay, the latter servicing the Twin City.  The Bombay Municipal Corporation
constructs and maintains arterial local streets and is responsible for
traffic engineering ancd parking and, through its subsidiary, the Bombay
Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, operates bus services in Greatelr
Bombay.
12.       Present Transport System:  The present rail and road transport
facilities in Bombay comprise a highly developed and complex infrastructUme
sytem.  Rail services are provided by the two divisions of the Indian
Railways headquartered in Bombay, the Western and the Central.  The Western
Railway main line from the terminus at Churchgate near the foot of the
island has four tracks as far as Borivli 30 kilometers north, but suburban
services extend onto the main and as far north as Virar (60 kilometers).
The Central Railway has two independent sets of lines starting att Victoria
Terminus near Churchgate. The main four-track line runs up the
eastern side of the suburbs through the town of Thana on the outskirts of
Greater Bombay as foar as Kalyan 54 kilometers away on the mainland.
Suburban services run even further, another 67 kilometers to Kasara on th3
main line to Agra, and southwest 46 kilometers to Karjat on the main line to
Poona.  Its secondary double track fromi Victoria Terminus serves the port
area before rejoining the main line and connecting with the Western
railways just north of the Island City.  ,he main rail lines roughly paraLlel
the main road system running into Bombay, which includes two four-lane
expressways through the suburbs on either side of Salsette Island as far
as its junction with the island to the sou'h. There is also a major road
connection from the Eastern Suburbs across the new Thana Creek Bridge to
the Twin City.



ANIEX 1
Page 5
13.       Past Investment:  Transport has been  one of the major investment
sectors in the BIvR. Estimated capital expenditures on transport, during the
past five years are shown in Table L.
14.       Vehicle Population:  Considerable investment and growth has taken
place in the motor vehicle fleet in recent years. Past data on registrations
are not entirely reliable but indicate that over the past decade the total
vehicle fleet has grown by about 170% and the number of cars by about 140%.
The oresent level of car ownership of about 16 cars per thousand population.
BEST's fleet, have grown much more&slowly over the same period despite
raoid increases in usage thus indicating some under-investment. During the
past decade the capacity of BEST's fleet has been expanded only by about
25% whereas the number of passengers has increased by about 74%. The taxi
fleet on the other hand increased by about 160% and are now considered to be
over-expanded. Vlehicle registrations in Greater Bombay as of March 31, 1975
are shown in Table 5.
15.       Modal Distribution of Travel:  Bombay ranks amongst the top few
metropolitan areas of the world in terms of the proJportion of passenger
travel mode by public traisport. About 90% of person trips by motorized
modes are now made by rail, bus and taxi, some 80% by rail and bus (see
Table 6). The two modes accommodate about 90% of work trips and probably
equivalent proportion  of travel during congested peak periods.
16.       Mass Transit Ridership:  Total mass transit volumes in Bombay
also rank amongst the highest of the world's great cities.  Buses and rail
each carry about 3 million passengers daily and demand for each has increased
by about 5% per annum over the past decade (see Table 7).
17.       Future Transport Development and Planning:  By mid-1475, when the
Secretaries Committee completed its consideration of development needs and
policies in the Metropolitan region, GOM, BMRDA, BMIC and BEST had made
considerable progress in defining revised bus development, private vehicle
use and traffic management policies, the implementation of which as parts
of the proposed project would enable cost effective imporvements in road
transport in Greater Bombay. These proposals were noted with approval
during the review. A number of fairly minor road works proposals mainly
in Greater Bombay were also endorsed. It was suggested, however, that all the
major and costly expressway proposals in the region be examined along with
other non-urgent road works as a part of a study which would consider such
proposals in the context of mass transportation needs and location policies
neglected in the original roads plan of 1962. BMRDA has later redesigned
one of the majior roads, the East Island Freeway,as a tollway facility to be
used mainly by trucks, and is conducting an analysis to determine if the
facility could be financially viable.  BMRDA has also made tentative
arrangements with the Central Road Research Institute to undertake the
necessary surveys of the road development program as a -t-hole.



ANNEX 1
Page  6
1,8,      The Committee also nronosed immediate commencement of a so-called
minimum rail investmerit program consisting of the remaining optimization
programs totalling more than Rs. 115 crores (US$131 million) to be financed
by the railways and an initial Rs. 60 crores (US$68 million) section of a
new subway surface rail line through t,he Island City which wou-Ld ultimatFely
cost about Rs. 160 crores (US$180 million) to be financed from the central
government fund for metropolitan rail development.  All concerned
authorities agreed on the urgent need for these improvements. At that time,
h'owever, t,he R?ailways Board had made known i-ts intention to seek rises in
commuter fares and/or subsidy payments from .Local or other sources to
offset losses on exist;ing and expandedL suburban services and to withholcl
approoriations for further phases of Bombay optimization works pending
favorable consideration of its policy proposals.  The position of Planning
Commission of GOI has been to commit a significant proportion of centra.
metropolitan transporl-. funds for subways to the ongoing projec-- in C,lcllt--,a.
There has been no knowiJn subsequent change in these funding positions or in
the concensus on the need for the improvements.
19.       The present impasse on rail transit funding is unlikely to be
resolved until GOI can assess its overall development finance support for the
several metropolitan areas of India.  A ma4or review of investment require-
ments in Madras is now being completed and would probably have to be
considerecd at- some length in con-1unction with the proposals from Bombay
and other metroDolitan areas before GOI can make major metropolitan funding
decisions. Purthermore, it would appear likely that eventual central
government rail development finance might be conditional on local particija-
tion in rail investment and operating costs. Such commitment is not
considered likely soon in view of local resource constraints.
20.D.     in the meantime, bus and traffic management improvements assunie
a greater i.iportance and BI2MDA, through appropriate analyses, hlas an
opportunity to assess technical and financial variants to the present re L
program.  BM-R3hAIs initial transport planning activity to be supported by
technical assistance lorovided under the project (see Annex 2) includes Ea
analysis of the costs of rail and buses in comparable types of service
including t.aose proposed to be performed by the rail investment proposals.
and an analysis of existing and potential mechanisms fcr funding mass
t,ransport investments and operations including the assessment of such
mechanisms within the context of overall regional investment needs and
financing capacities, and in terms of regional land ulse and development
oblectives.



AEICX 1
Table 1
INDIA
BOI4BAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Population and Employment in the BMR
Total
Balance   Bombay
Island                   Greater   Twin-         Metrop.   Metrop.
City     Suburbs      Bombay       City        Region    Region
Population:
1951         2,329         665        2,994        88          N/A       N/A
1961         2,772       1,380        L,152       108         1,079    5,339
1971         3,070       2,900        5.970       151         1,602    7,723
1974'        3,1i49      3,664        6,813        -            -         -
1981         3,417       3,839        7,256        -            -         -
Employment:
1968         1,281         364        1,645        -            -         -
1981         1,623         876        2,499        -            -         -
Source: Population: 1951, 1961, 1971 Census
1974 BMC
1981 Mass Transportation Study, 1968
Employment: Mass Transportation Study, 1968
October 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDIA
BOM]BAY URBAN THANSPORT PROjLCT
Household Income Distribution - Greater Bombav
(1 97t'
Monthly                                                    Cumulative
Household                        Percent of                 Percent, of
Income                          HousehoDlds               Households
,Rupees)
D - 100fl3                          3
131 - 203                            11                        14.
201 - 300                            17                        31
3 01 - 4O0                           18
431 - 5 33                                                     6 3
531 - 6&o                             3                        71
6.31 - 8.00                           8                        75
iDi - 1003:                          a                         83
10.01 - 1533                           9                        92
1531 and above                         8                       103
Total                        100                       100
Source:  Urban Systems Center, Bombay SurvTey for 1973 updated to 1976
by mission estimates
October 1976



INDIA
Bl)XBAY URBAN r;?NSPORpT PROJECT
Proposed PTiority Investments in the BMR
(Rs Crores)
Source of Financing
Central  Investment Borrow-    Markets
Major Investment Category           G0OM      BMC/     Assistance by Central ing from   Borrow-    IBRD          Total
BEST      by GOI   Ministries HUDCO/1    ings
Twin City Development              10.50         _        10.50          -        12.50                           33.5o
Revolving Fund for Land
Development in Greater Bombay      10.00         -        10.00                     - _       _                   20.00
Revolving Fund for growth
centers in the Region               2.00         -         2.00          -          _         _          _         4.00
Housing:
(i)  Government Employees          25.00      12.50         -         12,50         -         _                  50.00
(ii) Housing Board                 10.00         -          -            -       30.00      30.00        -       70.00
Slum Improvement                   12.00         -          -            -          -         -          -        12.00
water Supply and Sewerage                                        2
for Greater Bombay                 50.00       75.00      142.0o2 L                 -       18.)0        _       185.00
[ioads and Bridges                 10.00      11.30       10 00                     _         -        5.70      37.00
Railways                             -           -        60.03      115.00         -         -          -       175.30
Buses                                -         18.20        -                       -                 12.80       31,.00
Total               129.50     117.00      134.50     127.50       42.50      48.00      18.5)   617.50
/1  Housing and Urban Development Corporation
75  Includes IDA assistance funds                                                                                        C 
Source: BMRDA
October 1976



AITEX 1
Table h
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Ann;.rJl  Pransport Investment in the BNIR
(Rs. r,rores)
Actual                                  Btuidiet
Agency          1970-71     1971-72    1972-73    1973-7)4    19774-75    19'7b
Central Railway        1.28        3.11         4.)48       4.62       5.64        ' .DO
Western Raillway        2.146       3.88       4.07        6.69        5. 69        .,52
MTP (Railways)/l       0.11        0.24        0.30        0.32        0.,1j40     0.31
State Govt. (Roads)   0.50         0.69        1.63        1.52        0.83 3        .38
State Govt.            1.20        0.J7        0.07        0.04        0.07        0.18
(.Police)
A5RTZC/'2               5.73       0.53        0.64        0.84        1.04        C). 3
B3MlC (Roads)           2.28       2.45         3.11       4.02        14.56     1 . 74
3EST                   0.a84       1.48        3.67        5.47        4,84        K.l
CIDCO                   -          0.07        3 .74       7.6L        ,2          '.8
Total         8.16       12.52       '18.71     24.28       23.62       4! .09
/1   T1UP (Railways) Metropolitan Transport Pro<ect (Railways)
/2   MSRTC: M4aharashtra State Road Transport Corooration
Source: BINRDA
October 1976



AN IREX 1
Table 5
INDIA
BOMIBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Registrations in Greater Bombav
(as of March 31, 19775)
Type of Vehicle                       Number Registered
Motor Cars                                            112,334
Taxis                                                  19,322
Buses:  BEST buses                                      1 ,643
Other contract buses                            1 ,092
Private service buses                             649
School buses                                      382
Sub total                                  3,766
Trucks and vans                                        31 ,665
Motorcycles/scooters                                   48,726
Other vehicles                                          8,631
Total                                    224LWh44
Source: Regional Transport Authority
October 1976



ANITEX 1
Table 6
INDIA
BOMBAY TrRBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Percenta e Distribution of Travel by ModeL
-919
% of Total        S of Total
Mode                      Person Trios       Work Trips
Suburban rail                           39.0               51.1
BEST Bus                                39.0               38.2
Sub-total Mass Transit             78.0               89.3
Taxis                                    9.3               N/A
School buses                             1.5               N/.A
Sub-total other public transp.   10.8
Sub-total public tr& sport         88.8               N/A
M4Iotor cars                            10.6              IqA
Other                                    o.6               N/A
Sub-total private transport        11.2
Total                             100.0              100.0
/1 Excludes walk and cycle +rips
Source: Mass Transportation Study, 1968
October 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 7
INDIA
BCtKBAY URBAN TRbANSPORT PROJECT
Bombay Mass Transit Passengers Traffic
(million passengers per day)
Suburban       BEST
Year         Railways        Buses         Total      % by BEST
1963-64          1.68           1.78         3.46        51.5
1964-65          1.82           1.91         3.73        51.4
1965-66          2.00           1.84         3.84        48.0
1966-67          2.12           1.77         3.89        45.5
1967-68          2.19           1.81         4.00        45.2
1968-69          2.10           2.03         4.13        49.2
1969-70          2.29           2.19         4.48        48.9
1970-71          2.51           2.35         4.85        48.5
1971-72          2.64           2.48         5.12        48.5
1972-73          2.91           2.53         5.44        46.5
1973-74          3.01           2.95         5.96        49.5
1974-75          3.02           2.98         6.00        49.7
Source: Mass Transport Project, BEST
October 1976



Ai4NEX 2
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BMRDA Organization, Activities and Technical Assistance
A. Legal Stat-us
1.        BMRDA is a regional planning, development control and financing
agency established by the Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority
Act, 1974 (BMRDA Act).  It has development planning and control powers
based on statutory financial inputs from GOM, borrowing powers and locaL
revenue raising powers.   The BMRDA Act was notified on January 22, 197 
and the Authority was inaugurated on May 11, 1975.   BMRDA Amendment Ac-Es
have since been passed to increase the representation on the Authority
of the Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) and to clarify the Authority's
powers to execute and finance projects, give directions to agencies
accepting its project financing and to make grants, loans or advance to
the BMC and other agencies for development purposes.   A third amending
act, the BMRDA (Amendment) Act, 1976 (BMRDA (A) Act), the principal
contents of which were discussed at appraisal was made effective on
July 21, 1976.   The intent of this BMRDA (A) Act is to clarify the
powers and functions of the Authority, the establishment and constitution
of the Authority's organizational units, the definition of the duties o.l
its officers and the establishment and regulation of its funds and accoimts.
2.        This annex sets out the role, status and initial work program
and institutional development of BMRDA.
B. Functions and Powers
3.        Per Section 12 of the BMRDA Act, as amended, "the objects of
the Authority shall be to secure the devrelopment of the Bombay Metropolitan
Region according to the Regional Plan anLd for this purpose the functions of
the Authority shall be:
(a)  review any physical, financial and economical p:Lan;
(b)  review any project or scheme for development which may
be proposed or may be in the course of execution or may
be completed in the Metropolitan Region;
(c)  formulate and sanction schemes for the development of
the Metropolitan Region or any part thereof;
(d)  execute projects on the directions of the State Government.



ANINE 2
Page 2
(e)  recommend to the State Government any matter or proposal
requiring action by the State Government or any other
authority for the overall development of the M4etropolitan
Region;
(f)  participate with any other authority for inter-regional
development
(g)  finance any project or scheme for the development of the
IMetropolitan Region;
(h)  coordinate execution of the projects or schemes for the
development of the Metropolitan Region;
(i) supervise or otherwise ensure adequate supervision over
the planning and execution of any project or scheme, the
expenses of which, in whole or in part, are to be met
from the Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Fund;
(j)  prepare schemes or advise the concerned authorities in
formulating and undertaking schemes for development of
agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, forestry, dairy
development, poultry farming, piggery, cattle breeding,
fisheries and other similar activities;
(k)  prepare and implement schemes for providing alternative
accommodation and for rehabilitation of persons displaced
by projects and schemes which provide for such requirements; and
(1)  do all such other acts and things as may be necessary for or
on account of its activity and which are necessary for
furtherance of the objects for which the Authority is established."'
4.        BI.fRDA is vested with powers to execute its functions, and in
particular can:
(a)  prevent unauthorized development;
(b)  supervise and direct local and public authorities, and persons
in execution of works funded by BMRDA;
(c)  direct local and public authorities to maintain works provided
by BNRDA or through BIRDA funding, and if necessary BMRDA
may maintain such schemes in the event of failure to do so by
the responsible authority; and



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(d)  act as a project implementation agency should either the
responsible authority refuse to act, or no appropriate
authority exist to implement a scheme.
The BMRDA is, however, effectively prevented from carrying out any
functions of the BMC or other authorities without sanction fror., GOM.
5.        The principaLl effect of the foregoing functions and powers
is to give BMRDA adequate capability to act as a planning, coordinating,
financing and development regulating authority in the BIIR and iwith power
to act as an implementation and operating agency of last
resort. The initial functions BIRDA intends to exercise under its broader
legal mandate, would be to act as:
(a) borrower of the Bank Loan and as the financing agent for
development projects in the B ., adopt and carry out financial
policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank for the purposes
(b)  monitoring and supervision agency for the project and, establish
a Project Coordination and Mbnitoring Unit for the purpose;
(c)  an advisory regional investment programming entity and devise
and implemenLt data collection and reporting procedures for
the purpose;
(d) an advisory regional investment review agency with respect to
annual State plan assistance applications from the three State
planning districts with the BI1R (Greater Bombay, Kolaba and
Thana) and devise procedures for the purpose;
(e) a traffic and transport planning agency for the region and
prepare a traffic management program and a roads and mass
transport plan review;
(f) an agency responsible for regional water resources control and
development in compliance with Section 2.02 of the Maharashtra
Agreement of the Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(390-IN) and. undertake a water resources allocation plan;
(g)  an agency responsible for housing resources evaluation and
undertake an assessment of low--income housing program
potential;
(h) the Regional Planning Authority and. prepare guidelines and
procedures to assist BM4C in the decennial revision of the
Development Plan for Greater Bombay; and
(i) the Planning Authority for the Kalyan Industrial Complex
and prepare an outline development plan.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
These initial functions are appropriate to the potential capabilities
of BMRDA and the needs of the 1%tropolitan Region in the short term but
BNMRA is not yet organized to discharge these functions nor has it yet
fully identified the organizational steps to enable it to do so. Initial
tasks and work programs are described in Section F of this Annex. Technical
assistance required to support the above activities and to assist BINRDA
in advancing the status of work programs and procedures are described in
Section G.
C. Crganization and Establishment
6.        The basic structure of the BMRDA is shown in Chart 15968.
The governing Authority has 46 members of whom 34 are elected members,
the remainder being officers of GOn GOI and constituent local and
public bodies. The form and size of the Authority has been adopted
to give adequate and balanced representation to the many interests
involved but is unwieldy.   The BMRDA (A) Ordinance provides for adequate
decision-making capability to be delegated to the subordinate entities
including a Standing Committee, Executive Committee, and the Metropoli tan
Commissioner as Chief Executive and for adequate functions to reside in
three advisory Functional Boards and other departments. The Chairman of
BIIRDA and of the Standing Committee is the Minister for Urban Development
of GOM with the Chief Secretary of GOM as Chairman of the Executive
Comnittee. GOM appoints the Metropolitan Commissioner and thereby has
strong influence on key positions.
7.        The Standing Committee has nine members including the GOM
Chief Secretary and the Metropolitan Commissioner as the only officer
members. Its primary responsibilities are to act on behalf of the
Authority to organize and ensure efficient operation of BMRDA including
fiscal, staff establishment and procurement operations. In particular,
it controls the creation of all establishment posts and the operation
of the Development Fund (para. 15), including the making of loans,
grants, subventions or advances.
8.        The Executive Committee is the most important administrative
body, consisting of eight senior officers of important constituent
authorities and the Functional Boards, including the Metropolitan
Commissioner and the Municipal Commissioner of BMC. It is responsible
for management policy directions and high level management decisions,
including organization of the Functional Boards and operational staff
units, appointment of staff, administration of schemes, and oversight
of financial and accounting operations.
9.        Three advisory Functional Boards are defined in the BMRDA
Act:
(a) Transport and Communications;



AIqEX 2
Page 5
(b) Water Resources and Management; 1/
(c) Housing, Urban Renewal and Ecology;
and others may be established as necessary by Government order.   The finctions
and powers of the Bbards, including subject areas of operation, are established
by the Authority.  Resolutions of the Authority defining initial subject areas
of operation of the three Functional Boards have been adopted.   Each 3card
consists of a Chairmian and up to five members assisted by a government officer
appointed by GOM serving as a Member Secretary.   The Boards may have
professional and adTinistrative staffs appointed by the Executive Comm:.ttee.
10.       A Traffic Planning and Evaluation Subcommittee has been establ ished
as a permanent staff' unit under the Member Secretary of the Transport a.nd
Communications Board. to prepare and maintain a traffic management program
for the region (see Annex 5).  One operational staff unit has been created --
the Town and Country ?lanning Division, under the Metropolitan Commiss::Lcner.
This unit will provi.de the capability for BMRDA to act as a Regional PLanning
Board and as a Planning Authority under the Maharashtra Regional and Town
Planning Act, 1966.
11.       The Authority may advise the GCM to establish additional Functional
Boards under the Act.   The Authority may also establish new departmental
units, as it considers necessary.   BMRDA has also established an Acco-uting
and Finance Management Division (para 21).
D. Officers
12.       The Metropolitan Commissioner is the statutory Chief Executive
as the key "link man".   He is a member of the Authority and the Standino
and Executive Committees, and a member ex-officio of the Functional Boxris.
The Metropolitan Connissioner as the controlling officer of all operat. onaal
staff units and administrative departments of BMRDA, is responsible foi: the
discipline and performance of all employees of BMRDA including any GOM
officers who may be deputized to EMRDA from time to time, and is autho-iLed
to sign all orders and instruments, including contracts, on behalf of 2 {DA.
No appointment of Deputy Commissioner is authorized by the Act, but GO2'
could establish such a post should this; prove necessary when the BMRDA
approaches a fully operational status.
13.       The Financial Adviser is the statutory head of the Accountinf:
and Finance Management Division and has the right to attend and advise
1/ Established to fulfill Section 2.02 of the Maharashtra Agreement of'
the Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (IDA Credit IN-390).



ANNEX 2
Page 6
on any accounting, financial or exonomic matter before any meeting of the
Authority, any Committee or Functional Board. His responsibilities will
include the internal fiscal control and accounting of the Development
and Loans Funds, and the financial programming and appraisal functions of
BMRDA (see para 20).
14.       Staffing:  At appraisal only a few senior appointments had been
made including the Metropolitan Commissioner, the Financial Adviser, the
Member-Secretaries of the Functional Boards and the Chairman and members
of these Boards.   To prepare as borrower of the Bank loan and as a
regional development finance agency, 3MRDA has established an Accounting
and Finance Management Division, created key posts and appointed key
personnel of the department (see Table 1).  3MRDA has also passed
resolutions establishing the key staff positions of the Functional Boards
and the Town and Country Planning Division has made initial appointments
of such staff according to its recruitment schedule (see Table 1).
E. Finance
15.       The Act requires that BMRDA establish (a) a Bombay
Metropolitan Region Development Fund; and (b) a Loans Fund, the
later being a part of the Development Fund. All monies received by
the B3RDA are credited to the Development Fund including:
(a) GOM annual contributions of Rs. 5 crores (US $6 million
equivalent) to finance such schemes included in the State
Plan as the GOM may approve;
(b) GOM installments to a revolving fund of not less than
Rs 10 crores (US $12 million equivalent) for schemes
for planned development;
(c) Proceeds of cess levies by GOM and betterment charges
(para. 16);
(d) Sales of land; and
(e) Other loans and grants.
16.       Per Chapter VI of the Act, GOM may levy a cess or tax on
buildings and lands in the BMR not exceeding 5% of the annual value
of the property, the proceeds of which would be made available to
BMRDA to help finance capital or operating expenditures. The BMRDA
may levy betterment charges on the owner of any land, not exceeding
50% of the amount by which the value of the land has or will increase
as a result of execution of a development scheme.



AIEX -2
Page 7
17.       The Loans Find will receive all borrowings oL BMRDA End all
repayments of principal and interest on its loans and will provide (a)
all loans or advances by BMRDA to any local or public authority or
person; (b) repayment of loans by BMRDA; and (c) expenditures by BMRDA
on approved schemes and projects.   The Loans Fund is designed to
ensure that loans are used solely for capital expenditure purposes and
cannot be diverted for meeting BMRDA operating expenses.   In addition,
the method of operation of the Loans Fund will demonstrate the provisions
necessary for debt seirvice and the commitments of BMRDA to finnce schemin
through borrowings, grants or other advances.   BMRDA has passebd a resolxtion
adopting financial ancd loan fund regulations acceptable to the Bank.
18.       GOM may guarantee the repayment of principal and interest on
any loan raised by BEMCA.  For the proposed Loan to BSRDA, a GOI
guarantee has been obtained.
19.       The audit of BMRDA will be carried out by the Comptroller and
Auditor-General of India.   This officer has the authority to appoint
commercial auditors to act on his behalf.   It is anticipated that he
would do this in order to provide the Bank with audits and audit reports
acceptable to the Bank within eight months of the close of each. financial
year.
20.       At time of appraisal, BIWDA had opened bank accounts and had
received Rs 4.5 crores (US$5.0 million equivalent) from GOM and, GOI thro-ugh
GCM towards the revolving fund.   There was no budget for 1975/76 and G0!
met the initial salaries and expenses from a contingency fund.  A budgelI
was being prepared for 1976/77, but this was incomplete at time of appra;,sal.
A draft establishment budget for 1976/77 has been provided to the Bank.
21.       BMRDA's ability to repay loans appears secure, in that GCo  gua::'antees
are available under the Act, and the majority of BMRDA borrowers are lik .ly
to be local and public authorities which would be under control of the G iN
or GOI.  GOM would supervise the operations of BMRDA and at negotiation.., an
agreement would be souLght that GOM would annually review, and, as necess..ry
make available to EMEIA sufficient funds required by BMRDA to meet its
obligations.
F. Tasks and Work Programs
22.       The initial tasks and work programs of the various boards and
other units of BMRDA with respect to the functions identified in Section B
are detailed in Table 2.   BMRDA has passed resolutions:



ANIEX 2
Page 8
(a) defining the initial subject areas of the Function
Boards and the Town and Country Planning Division; and
(b) defining the initial work program for the Traffic
Planning and Evaluation Subcommittee.
23.       The project would provide for experts to review and as appropriate
propose modifications in the organizational structure and divisional work
programs of BMRDA, to prepare a staffing program including an assessment
of further technical assistance needs and recommendations as to utilization
of then uncommitted BMRDA technical assistance fu]nds under the project.
The project would also provide for experts to recommend and install within
B1dDA basic management and administrative procedures and a project monitoring
and reporting system.   The total time period for review, recommendations,
training and installation of the above is expected to be about two years.
Draft terms of reference for these services have been agreed between BMRDA
and the Bank.
24.       The project would provide for experts to recommend and install a
modern public authority-type accounting system and a financial management
and reporting system, train all associated staff and forecast financial
statements for 1977-78 to 1981-82.   The total time period for review,
recommendations, trainirng and installation of the above is expected to be
about 27 months.   Draft terms of reference for these services have been
agreed between BMRDA and the Bank.
25.       Finally, provision is also made for consultants to undertake an
organization and management performance review in late 1978 to assess BMRDA's
progress and further needs.   Terms of reference will be prepared by BIMDA
in advance of the review.
26.      Development Planning;  it is anticipated that experts in regional
development planning, development control, investment programming and project
appr-aisal would be required.  BIDA's initial investment programming activities are
to include the preparation of procedures to compile and assess regional
investment information on a continuing basis, the derivation of meaningful
investment targets and priorities from the Regional Plan, review of annual
State Plan proposals from the planning districts in the metropolitan region,
assessment of its own lending priorities and preparation of appraisal guidelines
and documentation formats for projects to be submitted to it for financing.
As a part of its assistance in the decennial review of the Development Plan
for Greater Bombay, and preparation of a development plan for the Kalyan Complex,



AINEX 2
Page 9
B>MDA would develop and apply a format for a short term action/investrent
programaing compone.nt of local authority plans.   BIDA must also assess
the pessible effectiveness and administrative reouirements of draft
regulations for comercial office control now being prepared and determine
its potential role and necessary capabilities to act as an enforcement
agent for office space and other development controls.   To assist in these
tasks, a regional planner/economist, urban planner and development control
expert are expected to be provided Lnder project technical assistance
and the project cos-ts include an estimated amount to finance these needs.
BIARDA is also the logical agency to review and make proposals to imprcove
region.dl social and economic development programs 1/ in support of the basic
shelter and upgrading programs of BMC, the sites and services program Df the
City and lndustrial Development Corporation in the Twin City, the indv3trial
decentralization schemes of the 'Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation
and the future sites and services and slum improvement programs of the proposed
2Ietropolitan Housing Board.   However, BIIRDA's immediate actions in this area
have not been defined or technical assistance requirements assessed.   The
staffing investigations to be made (see para 23) would specif-y the needs for
further technical assistance for BIMJDA including the appropriate disposition
of project technical assistance funds not then committed.   Terms of
reference for such individuals will be prepared by B1laDA with Bank assistance.
27.       Trans ort:   BIMDA has established a Traffic Planning and Evaluation
Subcommittee (TES) that will be responsible for suipervising the devel;)rment
of a regional traffic management program (see Annex 5).   Jnder the project,
a tr?ffic policy expert would be provided to assist TPES in formulatin:
nppropriate traffic m.anagement strategies and actions.   An urban tran.,-cort
economist would be prov ded to assist in mass transport pricing and f'&uding
investigations.   Terms of reference for such individuals have been pr:>pared
bV the Bank.
28.       Traning:   The proposed loan provides for ten man-months of
training of BMRDA staff in addition to on-the-job training which wdll 1:ie
provided by technical assistance experts.
1/   Saich program.s include:  housing and buildilng materials finance, se If-eieli,
cers-ruction technical  .ssistance, sma1l scale business training and finan.e
education, heal-1)  snd community develc-.ment, child care, etc.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
IN~DIA                                 Page I of 2
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BMRDA: Recruitment Schedule for Principal Staff
Proposed
Unit/Sub-unit                Position                           Recruitment Date
Metropolitan Commissioner          Appointed
Executive Committee         Secretary                           Appointed
Transport and
Communications Board         Member-Secretary                   Appointed
Transport Planner                  Appointed
Urban Economist/l1                 Appointed
Project Coordination and
Monitoring Unit             Works Administrator (2)             Appointed
December, 1976
Works Accountant (2)               Appointed
December, 1976
Traffic Planning and
Executive Subcommittee      Secretary                           Appointed
Traffic Engineer                   Appointed
Traffic Policy SpecialistL/2       June 1977
Transport Economist                February 1977
Transportation Engineer            Appointed
Enforcement Specialist /3          Appointed
Statisticians (2)                  Appointed
January, 1977
Water Resources Manage-
ment Board                  M4ember-Secretary                   Appointed
Hydrologist                        Appointed
Economist                          December, 1976
Housing, Urban Renewal      Member-Secretary                   Appointed
and Ecology Board           Industrial Development Economist Appointed
Housing and Infrastructure
Economist                       Appointed
Public Service Engineer or
Architect specialized in
low income housing              Appointed
Town and Country Planning
Division                    Chief Town and Country Planner    January, 1977
Urban Planner                     Appointed
Economist                          Appointed



ANNEX. '2
TableF .L
Page 2 of 2
Proposed
Unit/Sub-Unit               Position                            Recruitment Dal:e
Accounting and Financial
Management Department       Financial Adviser                   Appointed
Chief Accounts Officer             Appointed
Accounts Officer (Development
and Loans Funds)                 Appoi:rted
Accounts Officer (Establishment)  AppoLated
Public Finance Analyst             Appoinated
/1  Suitably experienced economist to be engaged on a fixed-term contract
of about twelve months duration commencing by February 1977 to suppleme%t
and train BMRDA's contemplated permanent staff.
/2  Suitably experienced specialist to be engaged on a fixed-term contract
of twelve months' duration commencing in June, 1977 to supplement and train'a
BNRDA's contemplated permanent staff.
/3  Suitably experienced officer to be deputized from the State Police.
Jcober 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BMRDA: Initial Tasks and Work Programs of Staff Units
Transport and Communications Board
1.1 Appointment of key staff and consultants:
(a) engagement of permanent staff per recruitment
schedule (see Table 1);
(b) engagement of suitably experienced urban transport
economist on a fixed-term contract of about twelve months
duration commencing Februar7, 1977;
(c) engagement on contract of a Transit Cost Analyst for a
six month period, date to be determined;
(d) preparation of terms of reference for transport survey
to be undertaken by consultants; and
(e)  engagement of suitable consultants to undertake the design,
supervision, processing and tabulation of work place and
home interview surveys and the analysis and preparation of
a road transport program by late 1976.
1.2 Supervision of transport survey and roads study by consultants
including:
(a)  preparation of a comprehensive inventory of major geographic
concentrations of mass transport demand including a work
place survey by July, 1977;
(b) preparation of a comprehensive inventory and analysis of road
and mass transportation users and use in the BMR including a
home interview survey July, 1977;
(c) review of road investment program by September, 1977; and
(d)  preparation of a road transport policy statement, initial
recommendations and further work program by December, 1977.
1.3 Commencement of basic transport planning analyses including:
(a) preparation of a comprehensive inventory of existing
investment, and operational costs and service characteristics
of existing mass transport modes by July, 1977;
(b) preparation of a comprehensive analysis of the funding and
finance of investment and recurring costs of mass transport
services and their incidence by September, 1977;



ANNEX 2
TaVl-e >-
Page 2 of $
(c) preparation of a statement of regional mass transport
objectives by September, 1977;
(d)  review of existing services, p:larns, projects and forecasts
by December, 1977;
(e) preparation of a mass transportation policy statement,
initial recommendations of an outline mass transport
development program, and objectives and timetable of
further preparation of a comprehensive transport
development program by December, 1977;
(f) design and initiation of a continuing monitoring of vital
regional mass transport data and indicators by July, 1977;
(g) investigation of waterways transport development in the BMR
(timing to be determined); and
(h)  investigation of microwave and other electronic communications
development in the BMR (timing to be determined).
1.4 Technical review and comment on relevant transport matters including:
(a) cormponents of annual plan applications to GOM; and
(b)  project proposals for BMRDA finance.
1.5 Undertake, through a Project Coordination and Monitoring Uni-t,
all major project coordination and progress monitoring functions
including:
(a) preparation of quarterly physical. and financial status reports
on the basis o:f periodic program reporting by the BMC Roads
Department and BEST;
(b)  monitoring of 30MC's and BEST's performance and their compliance
with the loan and/or project agreements with IBRD; and
(c) arrangement for remedial measures to overcome delays and other
project execution impediments.
2.   Traffic Planning and Evaluation Subcommittee
2.1 Appointment of key staff and consultants:
(a) engagement of permanent staff per recruitment schedule (see
Table 1); and
(b)  engagement of suitably experienced traffic operations
specialist to be engaged on a fixed-term contract of twelve
months' duration commencing in June, 1977.
2.2 Definition of a methodology and work approach. June, 1976.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
Page 3 of 5
2.3 Initiation of a traffic management program/1 according to the
work approach defined in 2.2 above, includ7ng:
(a) formulation of traffic management objectives;
(b)  evaluation of the transport system, including rules and
regulations practices, the transport network's capacities,
mass transport service, goods movement, and general
traffic characteristics; and
(c) preparation of a traffic management plan, including
actions to ensure the efficient use of existing road space;
to restrain traffic and to improve transit services.
3.  Water Resources Management Board
3.1 Appointment of key staff and consultants:
(a) engagement of permanent staff per recruitment schedule
(see Table 1).
3.2 Preparation of an initial water resources management program
for the BMR including:
(a) preparation of inventory of all water resources of BMR
including existing and potential resources external to BIR;
(b) insuring the installation and operation of adequate monitoring
equipment including new measurement devices to determine
existing and potential availability of water resources;
(c) preparation of water resources allocation plan by sector
through 1985 and 1991 to be available in draft by June, 1977;
and
(d) coordination of activities with Maharashtra Prevention of
Pollution Board in BMR and advising Government on matters
relating thereto.
3.3 Technical review and comment on relevant water supply matters
including:
(a) components of annual plan applications to GOM; and
(b) project proposals for BMRDA finance.
4.  Housing, Urban Renewal and Ecology Board
4.1 Appointment of key staff and consultants:
(a) engagement of permanent staff per recruitment schedule (see
Table 1).
/1 For details see Annex 5.



ANNEX 2
Table=2
Page 4 oi' 5
4.2 Preparation of an outline basic settlement/industrial development
program for the BMR including:
(a)  determination of capacity to expand the housing stock,
particularly low-cost housing, having regard to the avaIl-
ability of the following resources through 1985 and 1990:
land; design capacity and capability; construction materials;
infrastructure availability; contractors' capacity and
capability; self-help capability of lower income groups;
se32-construction assistance and comDTanity development
services; financial resources amd credit eligibility;
occupiers' ability to pay and to obtain credit; etc, by
April, 1977;
(b) assessment of the constraints on low-income self-help housing
construction ilmposed by building codes and regulations,
tenure and land registration conditions and other factors,
by December, 1977;
(c)  preparation of analysis of housing demand, for each year
through 1985, stratified by, inter alia:  occupational and
income groups; location and self-help built housing, by
December, 1977; and
(d) preparation of forecast of industrial and commercial
development through 1985 and 1990, including: types of
industry, location, infrastructure requirements and other
resource requirements, by March, 1978.
4.3 Technical review and comment on relevant housing, urban renewal
and ecology matters including:
(a)  comnponent of annual plan applications to GOM; and
(b) project proposals for EMRDA finance.
5.  Town and Country Planning
5.1 Appointment of key staff and consultants:
(a) engagement of permanent staff per recruitment schedule.
5.2  Definition of the intended role and eventual tasks including:
(a) assistance to BMC in the decennial review of the Development
Plan for Greater Bombay, by June 1, 1976;
(b)  acting as Planming Authority for the Kalyan Industrial
Complex; and
(c) design and enforcement of development control regulations.
5.3 Commencement of initial tasks as defined in 5.2 above.
5.4 Review and comment on relevant investment matters including:



ANNEX 2
Table 2-
Page D of '
(a) annual plan applications to GOM; and
(b) project proposals for GOM finance.
6.   Accounting and Financial Management Department
6.1 Appointment of key staff and consultants:
(a) engagement of permanent staff per recruitment schedule
(see Table 1).
6.2 Commencement of internal financial operations including:
(a)  adoption of financial and loan fund regulations, August 1976;
and
(b)  preparation of draft annual budget for 1976-77 by May 1,
and for subsequent fiscal years by October of the preceding
calendar year.
6.3 Compilation and assessment of annual regional investment program
including:
(a) review of previous effort of the City and Industrial Develop-
ment Corporation to compile regional investment budget; and
(b) compile and edit 1976-77 data.
6.4 Preparation of procedures to review future annual applications for
state plan assistance from Greater Bombay, Kolaba and Thana.
6.5 Commencement of BMRDA project financing including:
(a)  preparation of proposals for BMRDA lending priorities;
(b) preparation of appraisal guidelines and documentation
formats for projects to be submitted for BMRDA financing; and
(c) financial appraisal of projects submitted for BMRDA financing.
October 1976



ANNEX 2
TaDL~e-77i
INDIA
BOK3AY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BMRDA Technical Assistance SummarZ
A. Technical Experts                               Man Months   Total Cost /
1. Traffic and Transport Planning
Traffic Policy Specialist                     12            0.09
Urban Transport Eoonorist                     12            0.09
Sub-total              24           0.13
2. Investment Programming and
Development Planning
Assistance tentatively defined in
investment programming, project
appraisal and development planning
and control. Actual assistance to
be specified by EM3DA tasks assisted
by item B.1 below.                            45            0007
B. Consulting Services
1 . Organization and financial procedures
and Organization and i9lnagement Review        109           a.15
TOTAL                                    0.40
/1 Estimated costs inclusive of contingencies and exclusive of
Indian income taxes on foreign experts.
October 197J



ANNEX 3
I-NDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Demand for Bus Services and Bus Fleet Requirements
A. Passenger Demand
1.        BEST and the Wdestern and Central Railways maintain detailed
passenger records which indicate a remarkably steady and evenly divided
growth between the two modes over more than a decade (see Table 1,
Annex 1). BEST and the railways each carry over 3 million passengers
per day, an increase of nearly 80% since 1964, a growth rate of 5.0%
per annum. The corresponding population growth rate in Greater Bombay
was about 3.7% per annum. During this period bus and rail fares declined
in real terms but overcapacity conditions in peak periods have caused
significant demand restraint.
2.        A 1968 home interview survey by the Traffic Cell of the Town
and Country Planning Department of the Government of Maharashtra
obtained detailed transport user information including both bus and
rail modes which is the only existing comprehensive source on mass
transport travel in Bombay.!/  The 1968 study projected zone to zone
transit ridership for 1981, making use of small area population and
employment estimates and disaggregated travel forecasting techniques.
The forecast, however contains several methodological faults and
population and employment growth have been more rapid than assumed.
The 1981 forecast level of mass transit ridership of 6.35 million
passengers per day has been approached during the past year. Subsequent
adjustments in the data have been made by the Metropolitan Transport
Project (Railways) for the purposes of subway planning but only with
respect to assumed rail travel.
3.        A forecast of bus usage through fiscal year 1980-81, including
the project period through September 1979, was prepared by BEST using
linear projections of a March, 1966 to larch, 1974 passenger data
series for each of BEST's thirteen route groups.  The base series
terminating in March, 1974 excludes the influence of the 39% fare
increase in May, 1974. The principal inherent biases in the series
are the unmeasurable and somewhat offsetting effects of declining
fares and capacity constraints noted in para. 1.
4.        The future bus passenger growth rates derived by this method
range from 0.0% per annum on local crosstown services in the Island City
to 7.5% per annum for north-south services in the eastern suburbs and
1/ A new survey is to be conducted as a part of the roads study to be
carried out under BMRDA supervision, see Annex 2.



ANNEC 3,
rage <
average about 3,0/ per annum (See Table 1). More than half of tne
projected growth would be on line haul and suburban rail feeder services
in the Eastern and Western suburbs.. The average daily passengers
projected for September, 1979 is 3,725,00C) compared with 3,112,000 on
January, 1976 and about 3,350,000 anticipated in September, 1976
immediately prior to the project period.
5.        The projected future rate of increase in passenger trips
is loiver t-han that of the 1964-74 period. The forecast is considered
conservati ve but consistent with the anticipation of future fares
increasing somewhat in real terms rather Ithan declining as in the
past. No upward adjustment in the projections was made to account for
possibble restrictions in rail capacity and1 diversion of rail passenger
gro tnh to biuses because such a shift wculd be in part dependent on
re:routing and redeployment of buses which cannot '.Row be specified.
I'he increase in bus passenger kilometers of travel is expected
to rise more rapidly than the number of bus trips due to the increasing
length of bus j ourneys,.  The average trip length of bus travel hias been
and 7-fdll cotnlinue to increase because of greater separation of trip
origirs and because of the greater effect of fare increases on short
LrIps of under two ki:lometers for which walking is an alternativre.  The
aver.age bus trip  length was 4196 km. in March, 1974 and by March, 1981
woucl. le xpected to be 5.57 km. Total passenger kilometers during
the period would thus increase from about 15.8 million to 21.6 million,
or a gromht of ijou, 4.6% per annum.
7T.           snecific effect of bus fare increases in May, 1974 and
Decem,nerg !9'e  orb both bus passenger and bus passenger kilomete:r demand
was examin'ed 'U, detail in terms of instantaneous demand elasticities and
in relatioi- tc -,.re linear trend extrapolation to 1981.  It was determinec.
that the   .n<taneous elasticity of bus passenger demand in 1974 was
about 0O25 and in 1975) about 0.35. In both cases the elasticity of
passenger '-illometers of travel was less, about 0.17 in 197' and 0,25
in 1975. It was noted that after the may, 1974 fare increase, passenger
growth had nearly regained the linear trend projection when faras
were again raised (see Chartl6070). It was also determined that the
two peaks in the demand curve in early 1974 and labe 1975 immediately
prior to fare increases were at roughly constant passenger service
_e,-1s measured in terms of passenger load factors.  It was thus judged
thar 'l -'l fare increases combined with expansion of the effective
fleee  capacity in approximate relation to trend projection would result
in i.mmediate but temporary shortfalls in passengers and passenger
kilzmrieters in relatio-. to the trend which would be regained over a
reLai-4iely short period of twelve to eighteen months.  The projections
of bus passenger and bus passenger kilometers to 1981 with assumed fare
rises and applying the December, 1975 elasticities are sho-wn in Chart 16J)70,
B. Bus Fleet Requirements
8a        The expansion of the bus fleet during the project period
October, 1976 to September, 1979 was determined in the context of
anticipated traffic growth through 1981, planned improvements i-n
operating efficiency (see Annex 4) and BEST's anticipated fleet-



ANNEX 3
Page 3
changes prior to commencement of the project. The total estimated
fleet of 1939 units as of September, 1979 represents an increase
of 16% over the fleet expected to be in place in September, 1976
and compares with a 19% increase in passenger kilometers of travel
expected during the period. The resulting procurement package of
465 single ani235 double decker buses includes 179 single and 88
double deckers for expansion of the fleet and 285 single and 148
double deckers for replacement of overage buses. The size and
composition of BEST's bus fleet in the recent past and during the
project period are summarized in Table 2.
9.        The planned expansion of the fleet would increase present
overcrowding of depots and the central workship until the end of
1977 when the first additional depot capacity becomes operational.
After that time overcrowding would persist but at substantially
reduced levels until at the end of the project period overcrowding
would virtually be eliminated. Though the planned fleet expansion
will pose difficulties in bus maintenance, it is considered feasible
given BEST's effective management of maintenance activities (see
Annex 8).



I bI IA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BEST Bus Passenger Trips; 1974, 1979, 1981
Average  Daily Passengers (000)
March           September       March        Average Annual
1974             1979           1981       Growth from 1974
Route Groups: Service Areas                                    Actual            ----Forecast---
North-South Island Routes,Central Corridor                      424             469            481            1.8
North-South Island Routes, Eastern Corridor                     156             180            189            2.8
North-South Island Routes, Western Corridor                     411             472            481            1.3
Cross Island Routes, Center to Worli                            241             305            322            4.2
Cross Island Routes, Center to Malabar Hill                     135             133            132            0.0
Local Routes, South Island                                      305             330            337             1.4
Cross Island Routes, North Islund                               190             191            192            0.2
liorth-South Routes, Western Suburbs                             84              87             88            o.6
Rail Feeder Routes, Western Suburbs                             330             429            456             4.8
North-South Routes, Eastern Suburbs(West)                        70             105            115             7.4
Rail Feeder Routes, Eastern Suburbs(West)                       122             150            155             3.5
Rail Feeder Routes, Eastern Suburbs(East)                       168             228            244             5.5
Rail Station Link Routes, Eastern to Western Suburbs            318            1424            453             5.2
Subtotal                                                 2984             3503           3645            3.0
Supplementary Services                                          191             222            233             2.9
Total                                                    3175             3725           3878            3.0
Source: BEST



ANIEX 3
I NfI A                             Table 2
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BEST Bus Fleet, 1972-1979
Total UJnits in Fleet                                        Total Seats and Standee Places
Single  Double                % Inc. Over                       % Inc. Over
Year/Mont.      Deck    Deck         Total   Previous Year  Number               Previous Year
1972/March      717     615          1,332                    101,034
1973/March      768     634          1,402        5.3         105,944               4.9
1974/March      796     682          1,478        5.4         112,096               5.8
1975/March      848     682          1,530        3.5         115,320               2.9
1976/March      931     716          1,647        7.6         123,594               7.2
Project Period (Estimated)
1976/September 948      724          1,672        5.1         125,384               4.9
1977/March      985     743          1,728        4.9         129,426               4.7
1978/March    1052      776          1,828        5.8         136,616               5.5
1979/March    1102      800          1,902        4.0         141,924               3.9
1979/3eptemberl127      812          1,939        4.0         144,578               3.8
1/ Single deck buses @ 62 places per bus, double deck buses @ 92 per bus.
Source: BEST
October 1976



ANNEX 4
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Bus Services Improvement Program
1.        The bus services improvement program to enable BEST to meet
immediate demand for public road transport in Greater Bombay, and to
improve the efficiency of its services includes:
(a)  improvement and augmentation of BEST?s bus fleet;
(b) improvement, expansion and equipping of BEST's depot.s and
workshops
(c) provision of bus shelters/termini;
(d) provision of traffic engineering measures to improve the
circulation of buses; and
(e) review of BEST's operations and management of bus services.
A. Bus Fleet Improvement
2.        As of FebrLary, 1976, BEST's bus fleet of 1,602 buses comprilel
887 single-deck and 715 double4deck buses including five different sing>.e-
deck models, and four different double-deck models. Some 228, or 14%
of the buses had foreign made chassis.  The bodies of all buses have beer
manufactured by a variety of local body manufacturers in Bombay.
3.        Ov-er the past year BEST has been able to replace many of the
overage buses in its fleet as a result of a special assistance loan
of Rs 7 crores from GOI and thus the average age of chassis has been
reduced to 4.6 years for single-deck buses and 5.3 years for cdouble-
deck buses. However many old buses remain in the fleet. Buses
identified for replacement under the project are as follows:
Age at Time of Retirement
Under Project
Nuamber                 Chassis             Body
(years)            iyears)
Single-deck          49                     20.5                10.5
236                    10.5                10.5
Double-deck         133                     16.5                 4.5
15                    11.5                 5.5
Total               433



ANNEX 4
4.        The above buses are old by BEST standards and would be at or
beyond the end of their economic lives even after the extensive pre-
ventive maintenance and component replacement applied during their
life cycle.  BEST's bus maintenance practice is to.replace rer'odicalJ-
complete chassis components, such as engines and gearboxes, by totally
overhauled components. This has enabled BEST to extend the effective
life of bus chassis, reduce out-of-service times of buses and to organize
bus maintenance in line with cost-saving, industrial engineering concepts.
Despite preventive maintenance BEST has found that structural fatigue
and salt corrosion cause relatively rapid deterioration of bus bodies
particularly on double-deck buses. It is BEST's practice to schedule
replacement of double-deck bodies every sixth year of normal chassis
operation and in the event that single-deck chassis are used beyond 10
to 12 years the body must also be replaced. Body replacement is the
largest single outlay during the life of a bus and presents a clear
decision point at which time the retirement of the chassis is considered.
5.).      BEST maintains detailed records of operating costs and vehicle
kilometrage of single and double-deck buses over the operating life of
the chassis which indicate that the substitution of new buses for the
buses identified for replacement under the project would be financially
viable on the basis of reduced bus operating costs and increased bus
fare revenues. The replacement has also been found to be economically
viable (see Annex 6).
6.        Actual disposal of buses under the project would be in
accordance with BEST's normal practice of a detailed chassis and body
inspection to confirm physical faults. It is proposed that under the
bus operations review to be made during the project BEST also develop
more refined chassis-specific costing data which could also be used in
bus operations assignment and disposal decisions (see para 19).
7.        For the purposes of determining future bus replacement
requirements BEST has estimated that the optimal retirement cycle
for single-deck chassis would be after eight years, or 700,000 hours
of service, whichever comes first, and for double-deck chassis after
ten years or 800,000 hours of service. These broad guidelines appear
to somewhat underestimate the economic life of chassis norms when
body life and replacement costs are considered (para 4). These would
be re-examined during the bus operations review to be made during the
project (see para 19).
8.        Under the project 285 single-deck buses and 148 double-deck
buses would be procured to replace overage buses. An additional 179
single-deck buses and 88 double-deck buses would be procured to meet
passenger demand increases through the end of 1979 (see Annex 3). The
procurement schedule for these 700 buses is shown in Annex 14. With
each consignment of 100 bus chassis a set of major chassis components
would be procured to enable bus maintenance in accordance with BEST's
maintenance practices (see para 4). The items included are shown in
Tables 1 and 2.



ANNEXb
Page 3
ED. Bus Depot/Workshop Improvement
9.        BEST presently services its fleet of 1,602 buses through
twelve depots and one workshop. The main role of the workshop is to
overhaul chassis components and to re-equip double-deck bus chassis
after they have received their second body at the end of the sixth
service year. All other maintenance of buses is done in the depots.
The depots are designed to accomodate about 120 buses each. With a
present average allocation of 135 buses all are operating beyond
capacity. The optimal capacity of the workshop has also been
exceeded. Bus turn-outs for daily operations have been adversely
affected by this situation, and would be further aggravated by
required fleet increases. Apart frorn constraints formed by physical
limitations, worn out and deficient rmaintenance equipment and tools
in all depots and in the wqorkshop have reduced BEST's maintenance and
overhaul productivity and the capacity of the major facilities.
10.       The lack of depot capacity is a prime constraint on BEST's
ability to expand its bus fleet and services in the immediate future,
Expansion of the fleet under the project has been limited to the
numbers which would not unmanagably increase present overcrowding
before additional depot capacity becomes available. The schedule
of increased fleet and bus depot capacity during the project period
is shown in Chart 16069 .
11.       The project includes three new depots to be constructed at
Goregaon, Dharavi, and Bandra and the extension of three existing
depots at Kurla, Dadar and Worli. An additional workshop would be
constructed to support the existing and new bus depots in the
suburbs (see Map 11942).  Deficient workshop equipment and tools in
existing support installations would be replaced, and all new facili:ias
will be provided with new equipment. Construction of new and improvc>
ment of existing facilities will be carried out over three years.
Procurement and installation of new equipment will be accomplished
during the same period (see Tables 2 and 3, Annex 1L).
C. Bus Shelter Improvement
12.       The termdini of many high frequency bus routes, where buses
are readied for dispatch, drivers and conductors prepare for work,
and passengers await boarding, have rno facilities. At a number of
locations this has caused traffic problems from buses queuing in the
street waiting for dispatch, thereby impeding the flow of traffic.
Drivers, conductors and Dassenzers also coniest footDaths and have nm
protection from the weather. Several bus stops along high frequency
routes pose similar problems. Eleven sheltered bus stations/termini
including widened pavements for standing buses would be constructed
along high frequency bus routes to remedy this situation at the
following locatiorns: Dahisar, Chembur, Andheri, Borivli, Goregaon,
Vikhroli, Ghatkopar, Versova, Malabar Hill, Worli, Govandi.



ANNEX 4
D. Bus Circulation Improvement
13,       BEST in cooperation with BMC's Roads Department has identified
and analyzed locations along high frequency bus routes (80 - 120 buses/
direction/hour) where buses currently experience serious delays due to
constricted lane widths or conflicting flows of motor vehicles, man
and animal drawn carts and/or pedestrians. Speed-delay surveys of
buses in service were carried out, and actual turm around times of
buses were observed and compared with scheduled turn-around times. For
all locations where buses experience cumulative stopped delays of three vehicle
hours   or more per twelve hour period, alternative traffic engineering
solutions for reducing delays were reviewed, and the most cost effective
selected for implementation. Feasible solutions were developed for 31
locations, mostly along two high frequency bus routes, the Central
Island Corridor and the Western Island Corridor (see Map 11943). The
solutions are listed in Table 3.
14.       The cumulative effect of improvements in the Central Island
and Western Island Corridors would be reductions in average bus travel
times throughout the day of 6.1 minlutes and 3.1 minutes respectivelY
with proportionately greater reductions in peak periods.
15.       In addition to the above outlined measures, the traffic signal
system of Greater Bombay would be reprogrammed to favor buses in con-
trolling the flow of traffic.  This task will be carried out by BMC's
Roads Department with technical assistance to be provided under the
project (see Chapter 3). Presently about 100 intersections in Bombay
are signal controlled. A large proportion of the presently operated
equipment is deficient and of obsolete design. Under the project
deficient equipment will be rehabilitated, and at four critical locations
new equipment will be installed.   The project also provides for 30 man-
months of external training for B4C Roads Denartment staff.   A proposed
staff training program will be made availabie to the Bank by December 31, 1976.
E.  Review of Bus Operations and Management
16.       In 1976, BEST established a bus operations and Management Task
Force under the Deputy General Manager (see Chart 15971).   The unit is
to be formally approved by BMC by October 1976.   This unit wil1 be
responsible for preparing proposals for more effective financial planning,
financial target setting and their integration with operating targets and
facilities and services planning by the operating divisions, advising on
appropriate operating and financial targets, evaluating alternative
investment and operating options, monitoring present performance and
performing special analyses of current practices and procedures.



ANNIX 4
Page 5
17.       As an inltial task the unit is to review the present
financial and operating targets of the transport division in order to
identify clearly the follow up actions required to achieve and
further develop and integrate these targets.  BEST's financial
targets are summari -zed in para 5.l0 Chapter 5   and its major
operational targets are set out below:
Date of
perating Paramete_r           1975           Future             Target
Value         Target            Attainment
Effective Fleet
(. tctal fleet in active
status)                         94              95             continuous
Fleet Availability
(,' active fleet dispatched)    92              92             continuous
Fleet Utilization
(X scheduled kilometers run)   95               98                1978
Effective kilometers per bus
per day                        2il4            219                 1979
.4verage load factor
(total passenger kilometers
per seat/standee kilometers
run)                            .68            .73                1979
By July, 1977 the unit would prepa-r  a report detailing an expanded set
of systiem performance targets, identifying major options ava:ilable to
management to achieve such targets and proposing initial steps to
improve financial and services plannisinig.
19s       Another priority task of the unit will be to direc-t a
thorouga re axamination of BST's routes and schedules. Basic
passenger and travel data required for such a re-exarnination is to
be collected in a commuter survey to be carried out under supervision
of the 'Task Force.   The data are unlikely to be available before
mnid-1977 and in the meantime the unit would concentrate on:
(a)  examining immediate means of altering existing routes and
schedules to provide more passenger kilometers of service
with a given fleet, to rediuce aggregate passenger waiting
times and to provide minimuir services to newly developing
areas;



ANNEX 4
Page 6
(b)  devising more accurate costing and financial performance
measures of various types of services (peak/off peak,
limited stop/normal stop, rail feeder/line haul) to assist
in analyzing future service options;
(c) devising more accurate and comprehensive passenger service
performance data and measures for various types of services
and for each major service area to assist in identifying
and analyzing future service options;
(d) devising more accurate and comprehensive bus operating cost
and performance data to assist in identifying optimal vehicle
assignment and retirement indicators for each unit of the
fleet; and
(e) devising more abbreviated and pointed management reports
focusing on key operational and financial targets.
T.  r b*:s operations and management task force w,4l  continuously
advise on measur e o improve bus operations and management and monitor
changing demand patterns and other developments relevant to bus operations
and devise measures to adjust BEST's bus operations and management, as
required.
21.          Twenty man-months of expert assistance in bus operations would
be provided under the project to assist the Bus Operations and Management
Task Force in developing further operational and financial targets for
BEST bus services, in assessing present routes and schedules, and in
identifying means of improvlng current practices and formulating
improved procedures.   Job descriptions and a schedule of appointments
for the bus operations specialist and other key staff of the Task Force
have been prepared by BEST.   The project also provides for 30 man-months
of external training for BEST staff.   A proposed staff training program
will be made available to the Bank by December 31, 1976.
22.          The achievement of improved operating efficiency, passenger
service levels and financial performance partially depend on measures
outside the control of BEST's management.  In particular improvements
in BEST's bus operations will depend on bus circulation improvements
to be implemented by BM4C and upon a future program of traffic management
:leasures to be initiated by BMRDA's Traffic Planning and Evaluation
Subcommittee (TPES) (see Annex 5).   TPES also supervise BESTIs bus
operations improvement plans to ensure their conformity with an overall
program of increasing the utilization of existing transport resources in the
metropolitan region.



ANNEX 4
TaLble 1
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
aiJor Chassis Components to be lrocuired
with Single Deck Chassis
Requirement                               Requi-:ement
Item                 for 100 chassis       Item                for 1)C chass:is
Engine Complete                    5      7'ie Rod Assembly
Gear Box Complete                 1,)      Drag Link
Clutch Assembly                   1 0     Road Spring Front                 1:
Prop. shaft Front                 12      Road Spring Rear                  2)
Centre               12      Axle Arm R.-                        3
"   Rear                 12       Axle Arm L.H                       3
Rear Axle Assembly                 5      Differential Unit Complete         3
F'ront   It    ,                   5      Rear Axle Shaft R.H.              12
Steering Gear Assemoly             5      Rear Axle Shaft L.H.              1)
Padiator Complete                 12      Brake Chamber Front               20
Fuel In4ection Pump                8      Brake Chamber Rear                20
In'ect,ors                        72      Slack Adjuster L.H. (Front)        6
Fuel Feed Pump                     6         I        "   R.H. (  "  )       6
Air Compressor Assemblv            5                   "   R.H. (Rear )
Air Filter                         6         "             L.H. (  "  )
Lub Oil Filter                     5      Shock Absorber Front              2
Fuel Filter Primary                6      I)isc Wheel Front & Rear          3.)
Fuel Filter SecondarY              6      Fuel Tank
Self Starter                      15      Hand Brake Assembly
Dynamo/Alternator                  8       Lub Oil Pump
Regulator                         12      Air Reservoir
Brake Valve                      10       Inlet Manifol,i
Unloader Valve                    10      Exhaust lManifold                 1
Cylinder Head Assembly             8      Main Fly Wheel
Front Hub R.H.                     8      Clutch withdrawal                 1.
71  "r L.H.                      8      Back Plate                       1
Rear Hub R.H.                     10      Crank Shaft                        L
Ht  tH L.H.                     10      Crank Case
Brake Shoe Front                  S       Stabilizer
11  st  Rear                   6?       Water Pump Assembly
Brake Drum Front                  30
"    "   RPear                  4
Source: BEST
October 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAa T-RANSPORT PROJECT
Major Chassis Components to be Procured
with Double Deck Chassis
Requirement                               Requirement
Item               for 100 chassis            Item            for 100 chassis
Engine Complete                  5      Brake Drum Front                3')
Gear Box Complete                10                 R "  Rear           40
Clutch Assembly                 13      Drag Link                        5
Prop. Shaft Front               12      Xoad Spring Front               15
"   Centre              12       "          Rear               20
" "    ear              12     Stub Axle R.H. & L.H.            8
Rear Axle Assembly               5        "      11 L.H.                 8
Front   It   Ui                  5      Crown Wheel Pinion               8
Steering Gear Assembly           5      Brake Chamber Front             20
Radiator Complete               12        "      "     Rear             20
Fuel Iniection Pump              8      Slack Adjuster Front R.H.        6
In,'ectors                      72        t"   L.H.                      6
Fuel Feed Pumo                   6        "             Rear  R.H.       6
Air Comoressor Assemblyv         5         f               "   L.H.      6
Air Filter                       6      Shock Absorber                  20
Lub Oil Filter                   5      Disc Wheel Front & Rear         30
Fuel Filter Primary              6      Fuel Tank Complete
Fuel Filter Secondary            6      Hand Brake Assembly
Self Starter                    15      Lub Oil Pump                     6
Dynamo/Alternator                 8     Air Reservoir                    6
Regulator                       12      Inlet ,Ianif old                 8
Brake Valve                     1       E3xhaust Manifold               10
Unloader Valve                  10)    Main Fly Wheel                    8
Cylinder Head Assembly                  Clutch Withdrawal Assembly   10
Front Hub R.H.                          Back Plate                      10
L.H.                   8     Crankshaft
Rear Hub R.H.                  1       Crank Case                       5
I?  "1 L.H.                   10      Rear Axle Shaft                1 :
Brake Shoe Front                50      Water Pump Assembly              6
"1    "   tear                6)
Source: BEST
October 1976



AL'2LEX LL
INDIA                                   Table 3
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Traffic Enigineering Measures to Improve Bus Circulatioa
Location              T,pe of Sub-Project          Traffic Improvement
Central Island Corridor
Sion Railway Station          Widening of bridge   Tncreased roadway capacLty
Sion Junction                 Pedestrian Tunnel '
Sion Circle                   Pedestrian Tunnel )  Elimination of conflicting
King's Circle Station         P'edestrian Bridge )     pedestrian flows
Aurora                        Flyover                Removal of conflicting traffic fluow
Khodadah Circle               Pledestrian Tunnel    Removal of conflicting traffic flow
Parel                         Flyover               Removal of conflicting traffic flow
Bharat Mata                   Flyover               Removal of conflicting traffic flow
Lalbauc                       Flyover               Removal of conflicting traf fic flow
bTloria Church                Flyover               Removal of conflicting traffic flov
Byculla Bridge                Flyover               Removal of conflicting traffic flow
Western Island Corridor
Opera House Junction          Channelization        Increased roadway capacity
Tardeo Circle                 Channelization        Increased roadway capacity
Haji Ali Circle               Pedestrian tunnel ) Elimination of conflicting
Abdul Gaffarkhan Road)                           )       pedestrian flows
Junction  with        )       Channelization        Increased intersection capacity
Annie Besant Road    )
Worli Naka                    Channrlization        Increased intersection capacity
Glazo                         Channelization        Increased intersection capacity
Band Box                      Channelization        Increased intersection capacity
Drainage Channel Road         Road extension         Diversion of non-bus traffic
Vir Savakar Road              Channelization        Increased intersection capacity
Shivaji Park                  Pedestrian tunnel    Elimination of conflicting pedest:rLan flows
Hari Niwas                    Channelization        Increased intersection capacity
Lady Hardinge Road            Channelization        Increased intersectio. cauacity
Mahim Church                  Flyover               Removal of conflicting traffic fiow
Mahim Causeway, Junction
with WAestern Expressway   Flyover               Removal of conflicting traffic flow
Other High Frequency Routes
Palton Road                   Channelization        Tncreased intersection capacity
Marine Street                 Channelization        Increased roadway capacity
Thakurdwar                    Pedestrian Bridge    Increased roadway capacity
Gokhale Road                  Channelization        Increased intersection capacity
.V. Hoad (Bandra)            Road widening          Increased roadway capacitv
Sewri                         Pedestrian Bridge    Elimination of conflicting pedvs;rian
movements.
Source: BMC
October 1976



ANNEX 5
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Traffic Management Program
A. Backgrcir;id
1.        In November, 1975 BMRDA established a Traffic Planning and
Evaluation Subcommittee (TPES) under its Transport and Communications
Board. TPES has prcpared a set of policy guidelines, an implementation
strategy and a program of actions to improve the utilization and inte-
gration of available transport facilities and services in the Metro-
politan Region lrvolving the concerned operating, regulatory and
implementing agencies. TPES will at the same time act as coordinator
and clearing house for information on road, rail and waterborne traffic
operations, regulations, practices and plans within the Metropolitan
Region.
2.        BYaDA is uniquely equipped to initiate such a traffic
management program as all the major transport entities of the BMR are
represented on the Authority. The Bombay Munibipal Corporation, the
Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, the Bombay Port
Trust, the City and Industrial Development Corporation and the Central
and Western Railways are each represented by one or more members on
the Authority. The concerned state governr,ent entities are also
represented on the Authority and include the Maharashtra State Road
Transport Corporation, the Regional Transport Authority, the State
Traffic Police, the Departments of Housing and Public Works, Urban
Developments Finance and Planning.
3.        In the past there has been no consistant or coordinated
attempt to deal with traffic operations problems which extend beyond
the jurisdiction of each of the many transport entities in the BMR.
A Bombay City Traffic Advisory Committee has existed for a number of
years as a forum for road users, transit operators, and the Police to
discuss and advise concerned authorities on road traffic improvement
measures. The group has not had a significant impact in part because
of its limited representation and because of insufficient staff input
to collect needed information and to formulate broad based solutions.
A Bombay City Traffic Advisory Committee comprising the Police, BMC,
BEST and formerly the State Traffic Cell meets weekly to discuss and
agree on measures to cope with day-to-day problems, such as traffic
diversion in construction areas but the scope of its concerns are
quite limited. The Regional Transport Authority has represented the
interests of the public in the licensing and regulation of public road



ANNEX 5
Page 2~
transport services but has only been able to respond to the individual
applications or representations of other entities.
4.        The Police, the BMC and the State Traffic Cell have also
individually attempted to devise schemes of area traffic and circulatiorn
control within the central areas which have included such potentially
desirable elements as pedestrian streets, exclusive bus lanes and on-
street parking prohibitions.  None of the proposals, however, have been
based on adequate diagnoses of problems, related to any clear operative
strategy or formulated in a sufficiently comprehensive manner.
5.        In the absence of adequate system performance information and
of a broad overview oJ' traffic operations a number of serious problems
have gone unremedied. Amongst the most obvious deficiencies have been:
(a)  inaction on measures to reduce severe road congestion
caused by moving and stationary goods vehicles induced by
the location and/or loading procedures at the port and
major rail freight depots in the central area;
(b) inaction on measures to reduce severe road congesticzi due
to markets and other commercial functions encroaching onto
roadways;
(c) ineffecient investment and undue road congestion caused by
over-expansion of the taxi industry- relative to demand and
to available road space;
(d)  disregard of the potential for relieving persistant bus
passengers waiting and over-crowdinig in peak periods through
supplementary carriers now prevented from operating (ue to
exclusive franchise rights of BEST;
(e) fragmented and ineffective traffic engineering measures
unrelated to bus and pedestrian requirements; and
(f) lack of car parking restrictions or charges even in the
most densely developed portions of the central area.
6.        The basic sulpport for the work of the TPES in remedying
these as other traffic operations problems is provided by recent policy
directions of GOM concerning the priorities of public transport services,,
the need for restriction of private vehicle operation and parking in
restricted areas and the concurrance of the Police and the BMC on needed
enforcement and implementation measures.  In its primary road traffic
management efforts TPES will also be able to build on the experience of
the Police in traffic surveillance and. enforcement, the BMC Roads
Department in design and implementation of individual traffic engineerinZ
schemes, and these agencies and BEST in -the design and implementation
of bus circulation improvements under the project.



AiJKX 5
Page 3
7.        Th-e Director of TPES was appointed in January, 1976.   The
permanent staff of tie sub-committee will initially include seven
specialists in traffic policy, traffic engineering, transport economists,
transportat-on enwrineering, traffic control anrd enforcement, and statistics.
The schedule for their appointment is shown in Table 1, Annex 2.   The
position of traffic policv specialist would initially be filled by a
suitably experienced expert to be engaged under project technical assistance
for twelve months commencing in early 1977.   The traffic enforcement
sTpecialist is to be deputized by the Police.   Additional temporary
personnel will be hired to assist in conducting surveys, preparing plans, etc.
B.  Objectives and liork Program
WH With the concurrence of its constituent agencies, TPES has adopted
the following objectives for its initial traffic management activities:
(a) to give priority to public transport vehicles over
private cars in use of road space and in particular to buses to
improve operating speeds and performance;
(b) to provide contraflow bus lanes or reserved facilities in
road sections where bus speed is lower than 15 kph;
(c)  to provide adequate dispersal arrargements around Suburban
Railway Stations in the Island City of Bombay;
(d)  to provide facilities for convenient inter-change between
buses and suburban trains and to improve the traffic circulationi
in the areas around the suburban railway stations;
(e)  to minimise the use of private cars in the central area of
Bombay by parking controls and oth1er methods and to provide
bus transport as an alternative for journeys which cannot be
made by cars;
(f)  to Dedestrianise the areas where pedestrian movements are heav-,
(g)  to identify main arterial routes and bottlenecks and to improve
traiffic flows on these routes including the ones running thrcugq
the central area of Bombay;
(h )  to improve traffic flows in the central areas of outlying towns
in the BIM;
(i)  to review practices, rules, regulations and legislation
pertaining to traffic and transportation to suiggest
improvements in these for increasing the trgffic mobility
and safety;



ANNaEx 5
(j)  to suggest staggering of working hours in major work
centers to alleviate over-cro,dded conditions in transit
system; and
(k)  to propose means by which traffic management measures can
be implemented within the existing transportation resource:-.
9.        On thle basis of its initial survey of means to achieve the
objectives listed nbove, TPES has defined the following elements of a rego:..nai
traffic management program on which immediate action would be taken:
Greater Bomb!ay:
(a)  development of a traffic management plan for the central a-ea
includinig actions for improvement of the speed of buses, c;-r
restraints, parking controls etc., based on surveys and
systems evaluation for that area;
(v)  improvement of ma n routes outside the central area
including t.e improvement in speed of buses based on surveys
and system evaluation for these routes;
(c)  preparation of improvement schemes for the areas around sul-urbarn
railways stations to provide adequate dispersal and inter-c:hange
facilities and to improve traffic flows;
(d)  re-vision of traffic related zoning ordinances, concerning
parking, loading and unloading, revision of traffic codes ani
fines, revision of traffic signs, revision of licensing
regulations; revision of vehicles inspection regulations ind
staggering work hours, shortened work week etc.;
Bal'nce of Reg-on:
(e)  preparation of traffic management plans for Thana, Kalyan,
Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Bhiwandi.
(f)  preparation of improvemen-t schemes for areas around the
railway stations of Thana, Kalyan, Vithal;Tadi, AmIer.nath,
Dombivali and Kalwa;  and
(g)  revision of traffic related zoning ordinances for parking,
loading and unloading and access requirements rev sion of
traffic signs, revision of licensing regulations;  revi.sior
vehicle inspection regulatlons.
C.        The Traffie Panning Lfrit of 3MC prepare the traffic management plan
for the cen;-ral area, and the improvement of mai.n routes in Greater Bombae,y and
::.rDvement of circulation around several ra lf,ray stations.    t is to carry out
suriveys according to designs ap)proved by TP.;S.   The progress of the work ,ll
se monitored by T- ES and the traffic managerent  flans 4ormulated -Avll be
received b7y TPES and will be put to tie Transport ?.nd Communicati-ons Boarc ior
anrr-val.



ANN EX 5
.age 5
11.       Traffic circu'ation improvemnet schemes at several suburban
railway stations in Greater Bombay will be prepared by the Central Road
Research Institute, Delhi (CRRI) as consultants to TPES.   The designs
would include improvemert of dispersal facilities for the commuters and
pedestrians, better interchange facilities between the suburban trains and
the buses and improvement of general traffic flows around the stations.
12.       Traffic management plans for the areas of Thana, Kalyan, Ambernath
and UThasnagar will be developed by the CRRI.   System evaluation as per
the terms of reference and the work of field surveys for the above areas will
be carried out by the CRR1.  Traffic management plan for Bhiwandi will be
prepared by the TPES.
13.       The identification o' deficiencies in the traffic related zoning
ordinances concerning parking, loading and unloading and access requirements;
traffic codes and fines, traffi" signs, licensing regulations, vehicle
inspection regulations will be handled by the TPES.   The TPES review of
licensing regulations will include a specific examination of the potential
role of mini-buses and other supplementary modes.



ANNEXr6
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORI' PROJECT
Economic, Evaluati.on
1,        The economic evaluation o.f the project is based on calculations
of incremental costs and benefits associated Twith three distinct components
of the project shown below:
Component                              Major Quantifiable Benefits
A.  Replacement of overage buses    - Reduced costs of operating
new buses
- Increased bus passenger travel
utilizing additional service out-
put available from new buses
B.  Augmentation of' bus fleet       - Increased bus passenger travel
and supporting facilities          utilizing additional service out-
put available from additional
buses
C.  Improvement of road traffic      - Reduced costs of operating buse;
circulation on high-frequency      and of passenger travel on exiso-
bus routes                         ing services
- Increased bus passenger travel
utilizing additional service ou,-
put made available from existin:,
buses
- Reduced costs of operating othe:;
vehicles and of passenger trave::..
by other vehicles
The results of the analyses are summarized below:
Economic
Rate of Retir:x
A.   Replacement of overage buses                               39.8%
B.   Augmentation of' bus fleet and facilities                  26.9%
C.   improvement of traffic circulation                        23.5%
Total                                                     27.6%



ANNZX 6
Page 2
The details of calculations for each component, including sensitivity
analyses, are described in the following paragraphs. The cost parameters
and assumptions are listed in Table 1.
A. Bus Replacement
2.        The "With and 'dathout" Cases:  Buses identified for re-
placement under the project are as follows:
Age at Time of Retirement
Number           Under Project
Chassis            Bodly
tyears)           (years)
Single-deck                          49          20.5               to.5
236         10.5               10,5
285
Double-deck                         133          16.5                4.5
15          11.                 5.5
148
For purpose.s of analysis, it was assumed that the age of all single-deck
buses to be replaced would be 10.5 years and double-deck 16.5 years.
3.        The above buses are quite old by BEST standards.  The bodies
on the single-deck buses would be ready for replacement and the double-
deck chassis would already be equipped with a s gond replacement body
in accordance with BEST maintenance procedures.-/ It was considered
that, if these chassis were not replaced more or less as scheduled
unde- the project, the next best alternative would be to replace single-
deck chassis in the 21st year at the end of the life of the irst
replacement body and double-deck chassis in the 24th year of operation
at the end of the third replacement body. This was assumed for analysis
purposes as the "without" project case.
1/ Because of structural fatigue and salt corrosion, BEST finds it
necessary to replace double-deck bodies everJy sixth year of normal
chassis operation.



ANNEx 6
Page 3
4.        BEST maintains detailed records of operating costs and
vehicle kilometrage of single and double-deck buses over the
operating life of the chassis. This data was extrapolated for the
period of chassis usage assumed in the "'without project case. The
data shows declining kilometrage and increasing costs with additional
years of chassis operation -with temporary improvements after periodic
overhauls.  The data indicates that, for example, the effective kilo-
meter output of a double-deck bus in its 16th year of operaticn would
be 87% of a new bus, and its annual varLable running costs would be
141% of a new bus.
50.       According to 3EST's normal operating practices, all avail-
able buses are used cluring the a.m. and p.m. peak periods, and. about
80, used during the mid-day off-peak houirs.  Given the relatively
poor output and cost characteristics of older chassis, it was con-
sidered appropriate to assume, for purposes of analysis, that it
would be possible to utilize the oldest 20% of the fleet only in the
peak hours and for only one half the avearage kilometrage of the
fleet.  In the "without" project case, the oldest 20% of the fleet
would include the buses to be replaced under the project.  In the
"with"? project case the oldest remaining buses in the fleet to be
used at one half the average kilometrage for the fleet would be 9.3
years for double-deck 5.5 years single-deck chassis.
6.        The non-recurring investment costs of the replacement buses i L
the "with" project case are computed at the unit costs of new buses
reflected in costs sLmmarized in Annex 7 less estimated taxes and the
disposal value of the buses they would replace.   Non-recurring investm.jnt
costs for retaining existing buses in service in the "without" project  ase
are computed as the clifference between ,ex-tax body replacement costs le s
the disposal value of the existing bodies.
7.        Benefits:   The differences in annual operating costs and
kilometrage between new and old buses are available from BEST data
(see para L).  The benefit of reduced costs of operating new buses for
a constant annual kilometrage are directly derivable therefrom as are
the costs of operating new buses for the additional kilometrage they
are capable of performing. The benefit associated with increased bus
passenger travel utilizing additional service output available from new
buses was also derivable from the following assumptions;
(a)  all additional kilometrage output available frcm new
buses could be effectivelyr utilized in scheduled service;,
(b) the passenger load factor on new services provided would
be the same as the present average for all services, 7h%   ayld
(c)  the benefit of additional bus passenger travel is equivalEnt
to fare revenues.



Annex 6
Page 4
8.        Results:   The cost and benefit streams are shown in Table 2.
The economic rate of return is 39.8X.
B.   Bus Augmentation
9,.       The "With" and "Without" Cases:   The investments necessary to
augment the fleet consist of 267 single and double-deck huses and related
depot and workshop improvements.   The non-recurring costs of these
investments include the ex-tax capital expenditures on the additional
buses and required bus depot and workshop facilities as per the costs
summarised in Annex 7 less estimated taxes.   "With" these project
investments, it is assumed that service standards would remain relatively
constant and that passenger kilometrage would increase by about 17%
between October 1976 and September 1979, in accordance with the trend
forecasts detailed in Annex 3.   "Without" these project investments, it
is assumed that passenger kilometrage would remain constant at the level
of October 1976 and thqt all frustrated travel demand would be foregone
altogether ard not diverted to other modes.
10.       Benefits:   The benefit of increased bus passenger travel
utilizing increased service output available from additional buses is
equivalent to the total fare revenues.   Offsetting these benefits are
the ex-tax operating costs of the additional buses.
11.       Resl1ts:   The cost and benefit streams are shown in Table 3.
The economic rate of return is 26.9%.
C.   Traffic Circulation
12.       The "_With" and "Without" Cases:   Detailed traffic volume and
vehicle delay information was collected in late 1975 for each location
to be improved under the project.   These conditions constitute the
"without" project case.   The vehicle delays for the same volume and
pattern of traffic under improved conditions constitute the "with" project
case.   No forecasts of future traffic or future traffic conditions with
or without pro.ject improvements are available.   However, the first year
benefits were assumed to increase by 3.7% per annum, the current rate of
population growth -- a minimum estimate of vehicular traffic growth and
of the relative differences in traffic delays between the "with" and
"without" project cases.
13.       The non-recurring costs of traffic circulation improvements are
computed as the costs of works and equipment including physical contingencies
per Annex 7, less estimated taxes.
14.       Benefits:   The several benefits of improvements in road traffic
circulation on high frequency bus routes are summarized in para 1 and
described below.   Each of the benefits is attributable to the direct or
indirect effects of travel time savings.



Annex 6
Page 5
15.       Reduced costs of operating buses on existing services are
attributable to lesser fuel ana lubricant consumption and vehicle wear
and tear while accelerating, decelerating and idling in traffic.   The
proportion of bus running costs dependent on time in Bombay is assumed
to be the same as that derived in UK studies.l/   Reduced costs of
bus passenger travel are attributable to personal time savings valued
at 25% of the average wage rate of bus passengers (see Table 1).
The be-nefit associated with increased bus passenger travel utilizing
additional service output made available from existing buses was
derivable from annual operating costs of buses (see para L) and the
following assumptions:
(a)  the cumrulative bus operating time savings on the tw
major improved road corridors could be effectively
utilized for additional bus services, and none of the
savings on individual improvements outside these two
corridors could be so utilized;
(b)  the passenger load factor on additional services provided
would be the same as the present average for all services,
74%; and
(c)  tne benefit of additional bus passenger travel is
equivalent to total fare revenues less the ex-tax costs
of operating the buses.
16.       Reduced costs of operating cther vehicles (car and tails) and
reduced costs of passenger travel by these modes were calculated in the
same manner as for buses (see para 15 and Table 1).   Traffic data
necessary to compute reduced operating costs for commercial vehicles were
not collected by EMC and BEST and benefits are thereby somewhat understal;ed.
17.       First-year benefits were computed for each of the major traffi,
circulation subprojects and projected by assuming a 3.7% annual increase
(see para 12).   Benefits were not calcu;Lated for smaller subprojects
totaling about 8% of total investment.
18.       Results:  The results of the analysis of bus flow traffi-
circulation improvement indicate that each of the subprojects is vhible.
The cost and benefit streams are shown in Table I1.   The economic rate
of return is 23.5%.   About 53% of the benefits would accrue to BEST
and bus passengers.   About 6L5 cf +-he benefits would be in the form
of time savings to bus, taxi and private car passengers.



INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Major'Parameters and Cost Assumptions for Economic Evaluation
Item                            Assumptions                                 Item                            Assumptions
Capital Costs                   Costs including physical contingencies   Benefits:  (continued)
per Annex 7 less estimated taxes.
Vehicle Operating Costs         Total bus-operating costs (for bus
Economic Life of Assets         Neew buses:  Double-deck 12 years.                (continued)                augmentation comparison):  as per
Single-deck 10 years.                                          BEST data updated end 1976 price
levels.
Bus Depots, etc:  25 years.
Time dependent bus and car/taxi
Roads:  25 years.                                                           operating costs (for traffic
circulation improvement comparison);
Residual Values                 Bus Chassis:  107 of purchase cost at                                       as per BEST and other source data for
end of economic life,                                                       total vehicle operating costs at average
operating speeds, the proportion time
Bus Bodies:  50% /1 of purchase cost                                        dependent based on U.K. data:/2  30% of
at end of economic life,                                                    bus operating costs, 48% car/taxi.
Other assets:  Zero at end of economic   Passenger Time Value               Bus passengers:  one quarter of average
life,                                                                       wage rate of bus passengers per recent
BEST survey; Rs 1.00 (US 11.4c) per hour;
Benefits:                                                                                                    car/taxi passengers:  one quarter of average
wage rate of car/taxi passengers per
Vehicle Operating Costs         All  e,ehicle ope;rating costs exclude                                       estimated income levels; Rs 2.50 (US 28.4C)
depreciation, interest and taxes.                                           per hour.
Direct variable bus-operating costs by
age of bus chassis (for bus replacement
comparison): as per BEST data extra-
polated to assumed period of use and
updated to end 1976 price levels.
/1    Based on Best experience whereby aluminum body panels have high scrap material value,
77    The Economic Assessment of Road Improvement Schemes, Road Research Technical Paper No. 75, 1968.                                                    PS
z 
C0%



Aiinex 6
Table 2
I NDTA
BOMBAY URBAN TRAINSPORT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams for Bus Realacement
(Rs 000, 1976 Trices
IRgr                        <DCosts                                  Benefits
Capital      Operating
Revenues    Costs         Costs
Caital        2etin         Foe one    Foreone               e    Revetues
> 977         31225           18814         63384        85641/      22260          633013
l J7,         17590           30560        100490        49481/      35497        iC30th6
1979           19:370          )46h89       140)401       49321/       9807        1)49934
1960                          )45989        1399)46                   506018L)     ILh3707
1981                           h752L        138916                    53812 1 4 77
' ?42   00i/   55983        137935                    55560        1L3632
1'? 3   1 0onl  53416       135373                    60798        14)4) 92
iS?-- ,!+     230O1/         531)6        137417       176002/      57)430       141927
9551)        138002        4840o       59387'       1441128
986                           53506        138051       101202:/     57954         1LOL-18
.9`37          (5014)          55682        136698       (501 )       57602        137273
1988           (4692)          45426        10643h       (4692)       45520        105,152
1989           (9)48)4)        32322         72028      (10764)       30990          7;992
q90           (1672)          11780         25782       (2024)       1096)4         215 76
991           (3)496)          7222         15916       (4232)        667C          1 7h64
' ?jecessary body replacement, see para 3.
217  Reolacement of double deck chassis and bod,y In 24th year of operation, see para 3.
Sorce:  1Mission estimate
October 1976



Annex 6
Table 3
1 HD IA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams for Bus Augmentation
(Rs 000, 1976 Prices)
Costs                              Benefits
Year                  Capital              Operating                Revenues
1977                   42827                  8337                     13309
1978                   38828                 23606                     38006
1979                   35980                 38467                     59787
1980                                         44146                     73146
1981                                         44204                     77526
1982                    2030                 46705                     77526
1983                    1682                 46476                     77526
1984                    1392                 46L20                     77526
1985                                         465h7                     77526
1986                                         L6683                     77526
1987                   (3266)                43710                     72282
1988                    (2668)               32i'43                    57036
1989                   (496o)                18663                     39496
1990                   (2204)                 7960                     18689
1991                  (31093)                 2496                     41307
Source: Mission estimate
October 1976



Anne.K. 6
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams for Traffic Circulation Projects
(P.s 000, 1976 Prices)
Benefits
Other           Other
Net Bus                                      Vehicle         Veh>cle
Operating   Net Value        Bus Pass.       Operating       ?ass.
Capital      Cost         of Additional   Time            Cost             Time
Year      Cost          Savings      Bus Travel       Savings        Savings         Sav-.n
1977     23800            170             293            722           338              700
1978     23800            521             902           2221          1038             2153
1979     23800            882            1534           3776          1766            3660
1980                     1085            1884           4638          2169             4495
1981                     1125            1953           4810          2249            466,2
1982                     1166            2026           4987          2333            4834
1983                     1209            2101           5172          ;2419           501.3
1984                     1256            2178           5363          :2508           51S'8
1985                     1301            2259           5562          2601            535 'L
1986                     1348            2343           5768          ;2698           5550,
1987                     1iO0            2429           5981          2797            5757
1988                     1451            2519           6202          2901            6011 
1989                     1505            2612           6432          3008            62341
1990                     1560            2709           6670          3119            646',
1991   (34272)           1617            2809           6917          :3235           670L4
Source: Mission estimate
October 1976



ANNEX 7
PaRe 1
INDIA
BOM3AY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimate
-------- Rupees (crores) -------                  -------(us$ (mil1ion)--..-_
Item                                           Local       Foreign         Total                  Local     Foreign         Total
1. BEST
1,1  Buses
Single-deck chassis                    4.94        0,43            5-37                   5.62      0.48           6.10
Single-deck bodies                     3.52        0.18           3.70                    4.00      0,20           4.20
Single-deck spares                     0.55        0.05           0.60                    o.63      o.o6           0.69
Double-deck chassis                    4.56        1.14           5.70                    5.18      1.29           6c47
Double-deck bodies                     2.96        0.15           3.11                    3.36      0.18           3-54
Double-deck spares                     0.56        0.14           0.70                   o.64       0.16           0.80
17.     09                  9B2.37 19.21,8 0
Contingencies
Price                                2.74        0              3.07                   3.11       0.38           39
Subtotal Buses                      19.83        2.42          22.25                   22.54      2.75          25.29
1.2  Equipment
Workshops                              0.25        0.13           0.38                    0.28      0,15          043
Machine Shops                          0.28        0.14           0.142                  0.32      0o16            0148
Depots                                 0.18       0-04            0.22                   0,20       0.05           0.25
0.71       0.31           i                                                TT7 =0.5  -073  iii
Contingencies
Price                                0.11       0.05            0.16                   0.12       o.o6           0018
Subtotal Equipment                     0.82        0.36           1.18                   0.92       0.42           1.34
1.3  Civil Works
Workshops                              1.74        0.19            1.93                   1.98      0.22           2.20
Depots                                 2.13        0.24           2.37                    2.42      0,27           2.69
Shelters/Termi.ni                      0.30    e                  03
2                                      -~~~~~~~0
Contingencies
Physical                             0.42        0-04           0.46                   0.48       0.04          0o52
Price                                1.10        0.12           1.22                   1.24       0.14            38
Subtotal Civil Works                 5.69        0.62           6.31                    6.46      0.70           7,16
1.4  Land                                   1.06         -              1.06                   1.20       -             1s20
1.5  Technical Assistance/Training
Bus Operations and Management            0.04      0.18           0.22                   0.06        0,20           0,26
Contingencies
Price                                 0.02       0.02           0.04                   0.02        0.02          0,04
Subtotal Technical Assistance/
Training                              0.06       0.20           0.26                   0.08        0,22          0.30
1.6  Incremental Working Capital             1.76        -              1.76                   2.00        -             2.00
Total BEST                             29.22       3.60          32.82                  33.20        4.09         37.29



AN1,.X 7
Pag- 2
INDTA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimate (cont'd)
-----   Rupees (crores) -------                    --------S  (million)
Item                                             Local       Foreign         Total                   Local        '-oreign      Tc :a
II. BMC
1I.1  Equipment
Traffic Control Equipment            0.27        0.03             0.30                    0.31        0.04          C13',
Contingencies
Price                              0.05        0.01             0.06                    0.06        1.01           G.O7
Subtotal Equipment                   0.32        0.04             0.36                    0.37       '1 05           C 42
II.2  Civil Works
Flyovers (8)                         3.69        0.41             4.11                    4.19        0.47           t-6u,
Intersection channelisations (12)  0.68          0.08             0.76                    0.77        0.09           G.80
Street widening/extensions (2)       0.26        0.04             0.30                    0.30        0.05           C,35
Bridge widening (1)                  0.30        0.04             0.34                    0.34        0.05           0,39
Pedestrians bridges (3)              0.18        0.02             0.20                    0,20        0.02           0.22
Pedestrians tunnels (5)              1.60        0.18             1.78                    1.82        0. 20          2.02
6.71        0.77            7.49                    7.62        0.88           8.50
Contingencies
Physical                           0.67        0.08            0.75                     0.76        0.09           0.85
Price                              1.90        0.25             2.15                    2.17        0.28           2.45
Subtotal Civil Works                 9.28        1.10            10.38                   10.55        1.25          11.80
II.3  Land and Resettlement
Land                                 0.23        -                0.23                    0.26        -              0.26
Resettlement                         0.05        -                0.05                    0.06        -              c0,06
Subtotal Land and Resettlement:      0.28        -                0.28                    0.32        -              C 3
tT.4  Technical Assistance/Training
Traffic Engineering                  0.04        0.18             0.22                    0.06        0. 20          C 21
Contingencies:
Price                              0.02        0.02            0.04                    0.02        0.02            C 0'
Subtotal Technical Assistance,'
Training                        0.06        0.20            0.26                    0.08        0.22            C 30
Total BMC                            9.94        1.34            11.28                   11.32        1.52          12 .3P
III. BMRDA
111.1 Technical Assistance
Organization and Management          0,07        0.04             0.11                    0,08        1.04           C 17
Regional Planning, etc               0.04        0.02             0.06                    0.04        0.02           C Of,
Traffic and Transport Planning       0.05        0.10             0.19                    0.04        3.12           C.1N
0.16       0.16             0.32                    0.16        0.18           C 31.
Contingencies
Price                              0.02        0.03             0.05                   0.03         0. 03          C OD
Total BMRDA                          0.18        0.19             0.37                    0.19        0.21           C 40
GRANT TOTAL                         39.34        5.13            44.47                   44.71        3.82          SC 5:
Note:  Physical contingencies have been provided as follows:                 Provision for expected price increases has been -ace as folcl',s:
- on civil works with detailed engineering - 10%;                     - on civil works - 11% for 1976, 127. for 1977, 1'171 and 1979
- on civil works with preliminary engineering - 15%                     each, and 107. for 1980;
- on equipment and material - 9% Eor 1976, 8% fcc  :977, 1978
and 1979, each, and 7% for 1980;
- on technical assistance - 10% pear annum, 1976- 9S0
Source: Mission estimate
September 1976



ANNEX 8
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST)
A. Legal Status and Powers
1.        In 1 947 BTC acquired the assets and operating privileges of
the Bombay Electric Supply and Tramway Co., Ltd., a private company
which it had in 1P?5 granted exclusive rights to provide electricity and
road public transport services within the city limits. Amendments
to the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act of 1888 in 1947 and 1948
constituted the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST)
as a municipal entity with powers to operate these services and to
manage the assets acquired by BMC. BEST has no separate legal status
but has considerable administrative and financial independence from
the BMC.
2.        Supervisory powers over BEST's operations are retained by the
Corporation with most major policy direction being vested in a BEST
Committee of councillors and non-councillors. (See Chartl5969 ).
Executive powers are vested in a General Manager. The Municipal
Commissioner, the chief executive of BMC, is an ex-officio member of
the BEST Committee, assumes powers of the General Manager in his absence
and has powers to direct the General Manager to carry out any act within
his powers. BEST Committee members are appointed by the Corporation.
The General Manager is also appointed by the Corporation with the
appro-val of the State Government. The Municipal Commissioner is
appointed by the State Government.
3.        The BEST Committee may set electricity tariffs and bus
fares with the approval of the Corporation and subject to the maximum
limits on bus fares prescribed by GOM. BEST may borrow funds only
through the BMC. Contracts may be made on behalf of the Corporation
by the General Manager, subject to the prior approval of the BEST
Committee for any contracts of significant size. The BEST Committee
must sanction disposal of all but minor property, and the Corporation
mrust also sanction the creation of new permanent posts carrying
aggregate emoluments exceeding is 400 per month.
4.        Amendments have been made to the BMC Act of 1888 to facili-
tate contracting by BEST under the project. By these amendments the
BEST Committee and the Corporation would have 30 days to consider
sanctioning of contracts referred to them by the General Manager after
which time their sanction would be deemed to have been given.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
B. Functions and Performance
5.        BEST is responsible for the (distribution of electric energy
within the Island City portion of Greater Bombay, covering an area of
57 km2. The rest of the municipal area is supplied by two other
private electricity distribution utili-ties. BEST receives bulk supply
from the Tata Electiic Companies which operate both generation and
transmission facilities, and have been the sole power suppliers in the
Bombay area.  BEST's ability to distribute electricity in recent years
has been severely af'fected by shortages of power in the state.  During
some periods it has had to withdraw services from industrial consumers.
The demands for power even in times of adequate supply has been growing
at a very modest rate of about 1.54 per annum.  The slow growth in
demand is due to the fact that the Island City is virtually built up
and there has been an active policy to decentralize industries from the
area (see Chapter 21.  Recent growth in residential and commercial
consumption has been largely offset by declining industrial demand.  At
present, residentiaL, commercial and industrial consumption constitute
approximately equal shares of total units sold.
6.        BEST's transport operating rights extends throughout Greater
Bombay, an area of 440 km2. At present BEST operates only large
capacity buses (62 passenger single--deck and 92 passenger double-deck
buses) on conventional fixed routes and schedules. Limited excursion
and other contract services are provided during periods when the
fleet is not fully engaged in regular scheduled services. Extensive
tram services operated by BEST were disbanded in 1964 and trolley
buses introduced in the early 1960's on an experimental basi3 were
retired in 1971.
7.        At present BEST has a fleet of 1,602 single and doubDle-deck
buses operating on 140 routes comprising approximately 1,660 route
kilometers. The route structure provides extensive coverage of both
the Island City and the suburban areas of Greater Bombay. The route
system was substantially expanded when the suburbs were placed under
the jurisdiction of the BMC in the 1950's.
8.        BEST's route system and services complement rather than
compete with the suburban railways, the other major mass transportatiin
mode. Many routes in the suburbs, although predominantly north-south in
direction like the railways, are basically feeder services to the rai;
stations. The route pattexm in the suburbs is concentrated on the
comparatively few major roads and provides essentially corridor service.
Much more dense and differentiated routes are operated within the
Island City. Although there is extensive paralleling of railways in
the Island City the two systems cater for quite different types of
passenger traffic. The route system in the Island City does not have
as great focus on railway stations as in the suburbs but all stations
are served by buses.



AlUNEX 8
Page 3
9.        BEST has a long record of efficient operation of bus services
measured in terms of conventional performance indicators.  Fleet
utilization has been consistently high, averaging 90Q of all buses
owned in daily service. This high standard of oDerations has been
achieved despite very intensive use of the equipment and problems of
an overaged fleet, non-availability of parts and recently, over
capacity conditions in depots and the main workshop (see Annex 4).
Scheduling refinements and traffic staff incentives have increased
the effective kilometers per vehicle from 200 km per day to 214 km
per day over the past five years despite generally deteriorating
traffic conditions. In spite of these improvements in operating
performance passenger service standards have generally deteriorated
in recent years. On average, passengers wait for 30-35 minutes
during peak hours. Buses are severely overloaded during peak hours
and travel speeds are low particularly in the Island City.
10.       A basic cause of the decline in the quality of passenger
services has been inadequate expansion of the fleet. This has been
due to insufficient internal funds available for investment,
restrictions on public sector market borroiings and the unavailability
of state or central Government funds. Until a year ago, fleet
expansion was also restricted due to shortages in the supply of
chassis from traditional domestic manufacturers and the supply of
bus body materials. The availability of new buses is now adequate
but financial constraints still apply. Bank loan and counterpart
local loan funds provided under the project would be sufficient to
finance fleet expansion through late 1979. Increases in bus fares
should by then begin to generate sufficient internal funds which
could be used to substantially reduce external borrowing requirements
for further fleet expansion (see Chapter 5).
11.       Another prime cause of the decline in passenger service
standards has been the declining operating speed resulting from
increasing congestion caused by man and animal-drawn carts, pedestrians
and stationary goods vehicles and cars. The scheduled speed for buses
including stops, averages about 16 kph in the suburbs and substantially
less in the Island City. Scheduled headways are also difficult to
maintain and long passenger waiting times at bus stops and traffic
operational problems result from the unavoidable bunching of buses in
traffic. These problems would be substantially alieviated by traffic
engineering measures under the project designed to improve bus
circulation (see Annex 4).
12.       In addition to these factors BEST's present routes and
schedules have not been adequately analyzed and revised to maximize
aggregate passenger kilometers of travel or minimize aggregate waiting
times with available buses. The measures now used to determine the
number of buses required on a route are passenger waiting times, bus
load factors and minimum headways. Although a thorough re-examination



ANN ID( 8
P-ag-er
of the effectiveness of BEST's routes and schedules requires passenger
data which will not be available for some time (see para. 19), there
are indications that modifications of present criteria could result in
a better allocation of the fleet which could increase average (daily
passenger load factors while relieving peak period overcrowding. For
example, the increased application of operational techniques already
used by BEST including the turn-around of buses en route could release
buses for more productive use over the most heavily loaded route
sections. Such options would be examined by the Bus Operations and
Management Task Force (see para. 19). The future operating targets
adopted by BEST include an increase in the average daily load factor
(see Annex 4) which assumes some relief in peak period overcrowding.
The achievement of the target is dependent on improved allocation of
buses in the peak and continued progress in the staggering of working
hours which would extend the peak period (see Chapter 2).
C., O  anization, Management and Staffing
13.       BEST consists of three divisions:  General Administration,
Electric Supply and Transport (see Chartl5971). During BEST's fiscal
year l975/76, the staff employed in each of the three divisions averaged
3,5-00, 2,700 and 18,200 respectively. 'The General Admainistration and
Electric Supply divisions are directly under the General Manager whereas
the Transport division is supervised by Deputy General Manager, reporti:ng
to the General Manager.
1)X.      The Gen.eral Administration division comprises finance and
accounts, personnel, security, legal, electronic data processing, and
internal audit units.   BESTts financia.l and accounting operations are
effectively carried out under a Chief Accounting Officer.   Financial
planning, budgeting and target setting have not been given high priorit:,
by management, however, and the activities of the budgeting department
have generally been subordinated to the investment and operations
planning of the opereLting divisions.   Within the present organization t:he
status of the senior accounts and finance officers are also substantiall.y
below that of the officers of the two operation divisions.   The BMC Acl
of 1888 has been amended to establish the Chief Accounts Officer as a
statutory post in accordance idth usual provisions in legislation for
public entities in Mzharashtra.   The Buas Operations and Management Tas.:
Force to be created under the Deputy General Manager would also prepare
proposals for a more effective financial planning, financial target
setting and their integration with operating targets and facilities and
services planning by the operating divisions (see Annex 4).



ANNEX 8
Page 5
15.       The Electric Supply division comprises four operational
departments: Planning and Material Testing, Meters and Relays,
and Installation and Maintenance and Commercial Operations. The
billing for electric supply service is done by two consumer super-
intendients under the Deputy General Manager (see Chart 15971 ).
16.       The Transport division comprises four main departments under
the Deputy General Manager: Traffic, Engineering, Stores and Civil
Engineering. The activities of the Traffic and Engineering Departments
have for years been guided in accordance with a set of key transport
operating targets (see Annex 4) and a comprehensive monthly reporting
system providing details of the key operations. Cperating indicators
have not, however, been related to specific financial targets or
reporting. BEST has also not periodically reviewed and assessed
management practices. The Bus Operations and Management Task Force
will review and develop present financial and operational targets and
devise improved management reporting (see Annex 4).
17.       The Engineering Department employs some 4,500 staff.  This
department's main responsibility is to provide routine maintenance
and periodic overhaul of buses. The management of the. department
has been very efficient in steadily improving the productivity and
performance of its various units. An informal task force continuously
studies work procedures and devises new procedures to reduce costs and
increase bus turnout. Although constrained by labor union norms the
implementation of measures based on detailed work studies combined
with various pay incentive schemes has reduced the maintenance staff
per bus from 2.96 to 2.57 during the past five years. The
Engineering Department has its own training institution for different
types of personnel. The capability of staff having undergone training
is good. Present arrangements are adequate to recruit and train adequate
engineering staff to service the additional bus fleet to be provided
under the project. The department in cooperation with the Traffic
Department is assessing arrangements for altered maintenance procedures
and schedules in order to maintain service standards during the initial
project period when depot capacity will be significantly exceeded (see
Annex 4).
18.       The Civil Engineering Department is responsible for design,
tendering and supervision of required construction or improvement of
ouildings and other physical plant. The Stores Department is
responsible for procurement, storage and distribution of equipment
and spares. Both departments are staffed with experienced personnel
and effectively discharge their respective functions. The supervision
of bus depot and workshop construction and expansion under the project
is additional to BEST's ongoing civil works program.   BEST will recruit
adequate additional staff on a timely basis.



ANNEX 8
Pagero
19.       The Traffic Department emp:Loys some 13,500 staff.  Its main
responsibilities are the operation of services, scheduling, dispatching
and daily service surveillance. Personnel, such as drivers and
conductors, are trained at the department's own training facilities.
Present arrangements are adequate to recruit and train additional
traffic staff required to operate additional buses to be provided
under the project. The performance of the traffic staff at the
various levels is generally satisfactoxy.  Pay incentive schemes
have been effective in increasing the productivity of drivers and
conductors and no major changes are considered necessary. The re-
maining scope for economizing in operations staff would be in the
increased adoption of split-shift working during the two peak periods
but such work schedules are generally unpopular and restricted by
labor union agreements already entered into by BEST. The department
in cooperation with the Engineering Department, is assessing contin-
gency arrangements for vehicle assignment, parking and dispatching in
order to maintain adequate outshedding performance during the initial
project period when depot capacity will be significantly exceeded (see
Annex 4).
20.       Service planning and monitoring by the Traffic Department
have been effective in eliminating serious anomolies of poor service
and or poor financial performance on individual routes. The depart-
ment has also identified new or expanded services to which additional
buses made available from the project would be assigned. However,
there is a clear need to supplement the capabilities of the depart-
ment to examine system-wide measures to increase the effective
passenger carrying capacity of the existing fleet, to reduce passenger
waiting times and increase revenues. There is also a need tc re-
examine the entire route structure on the basis of up to date passenge
origin and destination data. These tasks will be undertaken by the
Bus Operations and Management Task Force established under the Deputy (e:.eral
Manager and to be aided by a bus operations adviser to be provided
under the project (see Annex 4).



ANNEX 9
INDIA
B0I4BAY tURBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BEST Bus Fares and Electricity Tariffs
A. Bus Fares
1.        The schedule of current BEST bus fares for ordinary and limited
express services is shown in Table 1.  Oaly single journey fares are charged,
i.e. there are no concessional return, monthly or season tickets. The
structure and level of fares are similar to those of major bus operators in
the other metropol.itan areas of India.
2.        BEST bus fares are subject to minima and maxima notified by the
State Transport Anthority under the Mbtor Vehicles Act, 1939.  Under the latest
notification datecL November 17, 1975 fares for ordinary services within
municipal areas including those of BEST are a minimum fare of Rs 0.200 per
journey at rates not exceeding Rs 0.075 per kilometer or part thereof for
journeys of up to three kilometers and Rs 0.050 per passenger kilometer for
distances exceeding three kilometers. For limited and express services minimum
fare of Rs 0.250 per journey and maximum surcharge of 25% on the ordinary fare
apply.  BEST's present fares are within these limits.
3.        BEST's current ordinary single journey fares are substantially
higher than concessional season fares on suburban railways operating in Bombay.
For a single journey of about 20 km,for example,the ordinary bus fare would be
Rs 0.80 whereas the cost of first and second class quarterly season tickets
used for, say, 150 journeys would be about Rs 0.60 and Rs u.13 per journey
respectively.  Over shorter distances the relative differences are less, but
still very substantial. The cost of single journey rail tickets is more compa-
rable. A single ticket for a 20 km trip would be about Rs 0.60.
4,        Fare increases in 1974 and 1975 have resulted in immediate losses
in total passenger kilometers of about 7% and 17% respectively (see Annex 3).
Passenger growth between May 1974 and December 1975 was very rapid and reflected
substantial return of lost patronage. Initial passenger losses after December
1975 were on the more expensive and longer distance limited services which to
some extent compete with rail travel. Patronage on ordinary services declined
by only about 1%. It is considered that future increases in fares in real terms
will reduce past passenger growth rates (see Annex 3).
B. Electricity Rates
5.        A summary of the schedule of current BEST electricity rates is shown
in Table 2, together with comparative rates for distribution in other parts of
the Bank by the Bombay Suburban Electic Supply Company, a private company,
and the Maharashtra State Electricity Board.  BEST's electricity rates are
generally equal to or lower than those of the two other utilities for
residential users and higher for industrial consumers.



ANNEX
Page 2
6.        BEST's electricity rates are not subject to state or central
government regulations but in practice are informally related to the prevailing
rates of the adjoining distribution companies.
7.        Electricity rate increases in the past have had immediate effects
on residential demand in particular and have contributed to the relatively
stagnant demand for oower. It is considered that future increases in rates
will continue to influence demand and that growth would not excee,d 1.5% per
annum as in the recent past.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
INDIA
BI'43AY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Schedule of BEST Bus Fares-
Distance                       2/
Permitted            Adult Fare-          Average Rate per Km
(km)                (Rupees)                  (Rapees)
Ordinary Services
3.0                 0.20                     .067
5.0                 0.25                     .050
8.0                 o..o                     .050
10.0                 0.50                     .050
15.0                 0.6o                     .oho
20.0                 0.80                     .o4o
25.0                 1.00                     .o4o
30.0                 1.20                     0oho
Limited and Express Services
2.0                  .25                     .125
.0                   .30                     .075
6.o                  .40                     .067
8.0                  .50                     .063
10.0                  .60                     .060
15.0                  .80                     .053
20.0                 1.00                     .o5o
25.0                 1.20                     .o08
30.0                 1.40                     .o46
1/ As from December 1975.
2/ Children under 12 carried at half fare, children under 3 carried
free. Passengers who are totally blind and with an attendant are
carried on purchase of 1 ticket.
Source: BEST.
October 1976



Table 2
INDIA
BOtBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Electricity Distribution Tariffs in the MiR
Type of Consumer                                       Bombay Suburban i/              Maharashtra State
and Consumption                 BEST 1/                Electric  Supply Company        Electricity Board
Low Tension Supply:
Residential Lighting   0 to 100 units Rs 0.13/unit  1 to 20 units Rs 0.13/unit    1 to 30 units Rs 0.31/unit
101 to 300 units Rs 0.16/unit  21 & above Rs 0.18/unit          31 & above Rs 0.25/mit
301 & above Rs 0.20/unit
Min. charge Rs 2.00              Min. charge Rs 2.00            Min. charge Qs 2.20
aesidential iieating   Combined with above              Rs 0.14/unit                   Rs 0.13/unit
No separate min.charge           Min.charge Rs 3.00             Min.charge Rs 5.50
Commercial Lighting   Rs 0.38/unit                      Rs 0.40/unit                   Rs 0.35/unit
Min. charge Rs 5.00              Min.charge Rs 3.00             Rs 4.00 per installation
Industrial Small       Rs 0.30/unit                     Rs 0.27/unit                   Rs 0.20/unit
Consumers              Min. charge Rs 5.00              Min. charge Rs 2.00            Min. charge Rs 5.00
industrial Medium      Rs 0.30/unit                     As 0.26/unit                   Rs 0.20/unit
Consumers                                                                              Min. charge Rs 5.00
Industrial Lighting   Rs 0.38/unit                      Rs 0.40/unit                   Rs C.35/unit
Min. charge Rs 5.00              Min. charge Rs 3.00            Min. charge Rs 4.00
Large Industrial       Rs 29'.4/kVA                     Rs 21.89/kW                    Supply to large Industrial
Consumers                                                                              Consumers is given at
HV only
Large non-Industrial  Rs 33.80/kVA                      no corresp.tariff exists       no corresp. tariff
Consumers              plus energy at Rs 0.20/unit                                     exists
High Tension Supply
Medium Industrial      Rs 0.28/unit                     no corresp. tariff exists    Rs 0.16/unit
Consumers
Large Industrial       Rs 21.77/kVA for                 Rs 19.68/kW for                Rs 12.00/kVA
Consumers              1-500 kVA                        1-500 kW                       plus energy at Rs ;.C9/unit
Rs 18.92/kVA for                Rs 17.22 kW
501 and above plus              501 and above plus
energy at:                      energy at:
1-150,000 units Rs 0.12/unit   1-100,000 units Rs 0.15/unit
150,001-1,500,000 units         100,001-300,000 units
Rs 0.10/unit                    Rs 0.13/unit
1,500,000 +                      300,000 +
Rs 0.09/unit                    Rs 0.11/unit
Large Non-industrial  Rs 28.4L0/kVA plus                Rs 22.88/kW for 1-250kW        Rs 12.00/kVA
Consumers              energy at:                       Rs 17.22/kW above 250 kW       plus energy at:
Rs 0.18/unit                    plus energy at:                Rs 0.09/unit
1-100,000 units Rs 0.17/unit
100,001-200,000 units
Rs 0.13/unit
200,000 +
Rs 0.12/unit
1/  As from October 1975.   All unit rates for BESTr and the Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Compary
are supplemented by a fuel adjustment charge in proportion to that charged by
suppliers: For low tension and high tension supply it is at 1.10 and 1.04 tines the fuel
charge respectively.
2/  MSEB high tension rates include a fuel adjustment charge.
Source: BEST
October 1976



'NNEX 10
D3OC3WY us""-, N t".-VANS- PORT FROJEi1712
NCOTEi3 ON BESTL FUNVX.1rIAL ~PROOECIU0N3
A. Ope~rating Statements--,
1.      "iThe expenditLres set out -in the operating,, statexiisntl for transport
(Annex 112, Table 1) are batsed on Janiuary 19716 c-osts., escalated at inflation
rates givien in Table 1. of this A=nex~.  Costs of ezuaznsio~n cof services
estimated at a 31% increase ini effect-ive kilometers run are also included,
wiAth efflect also given- to improved operat-ing performance by  WO. The
revenues ohown are based on the. 1976/77 actuals and exctrapolated to demonstrate
the yrield of fares necessar-j to achieve the operating ratios for each year.,
including, in particuldar, the t-arget of 100 in 1980/81 (Chapter 5, para 5.1l).
2.        BMC intends that BEST as a tr-an,en.ort and e'.-ectricity undertak~ing
shall break even. each year after achiLeving t1he financi4al objectives set
out in Chapter 5, na 5  10.   The, trainsport. aperations are only likely to
achi eve an opera-ting ratio -of 100 b-y 1980/81l ankd during the peariod 1977/8 1
the revenues from electric-it-y operations wLIll have tuo provid e funds tuo
support transport operations. paurticularly for working capital.   Therefore,
although ithe operating expen'ses in the electricity op-erating statement
reflect the probable cost of pur-chase of bulk supplies and of distribution
costs -through 1980/8.1, tlhe operating revenues (ele17t-ri-city sale.s) have been
forecast at l1evels necessary to achieve the MC policy tar get of breaking
even for the whole undertvaidng.   In preparing these revenue forecasts the
automatic increases in charges a:rtsing from the fu,,el adjustmient clause have
been incluided.   A decline in thie -numaber ofC units sold is forecast to reflect
consumerst resistance to inhcreasing charges for suppli;es,, itth 1jittlie
opportunity for expansionq of t'%he electricity undertak-Ing (Annex 9 para 7).
3.        General administrative expenses havie been allocated between, t-he
two diLvisions of the unidertaking a.ccordi-ng to -established norrms. Identifiable
charg,es are allocated on the basis of actual outlays, or accordinig to well
defined criteria such as the percentages of personnel working respe-ctively
in each division.   Non-identifiable charges are split equ-ally.   Admi.nistrative
income 1/ has been allocated appro~-iat ely in proportion to the operating
revenue of each division.   The ea nual contribution to fUnrancial reserves t o
cover notional -interest oni the- internal use ol' f-nds3 (see G.Hapter 5, para, 4.0l)
is allocated equally to each divisi1on.   Interest. charges on pas-t loans have
been split in proportion to the repaymrent of principal on loans., attributed
to each branch.   It is antici"pated tha-1- durins the foreaoat period only the
t.ransport division would require borroAings.   Interest; cha~rges onr further
borrowing are thuis attributed only to -,,e transport diision    A statement
of assumptions regarding inflation rates are set- out, in. Tabl-e 1.
1/ Mainly comprising sales of scra.p, rent, and investment income.



A0I32 10
Page 2
B. Flow of Funds Statements and Balance Mieets
4.       BEST prepares a single consolidated balance sheet for the 'LLdertakilg.
Staterents of sources and applications of funds for transport and ele::ctricity
divisions (Annex 12X Tables 1. and 2) anld a consolidated b-lance sheet .1eor the
undertaking as a w-hole (Annex 13) hax. e been prepared on the basis of co.mmerciQE
accounting principles.   The debt servicing obligation on future loarL; Aas
been determined by the borroiLng program described in the appraisal reptart
(see Chapter 5, paxa 5.19) and the loan termns described below:
(a)  !L* Market Loans: TDe terms havve been taken as an
interest rate of oi per annum over 10 years.  .The
full interest is paid over the 10 years and a sinking
f-Ad is  set up to repay the principal at the end of
the 10 years.   The sinking fund installment is
calculated on the basis that sinking fund investments
earn interest at the rate of 6% per annum.
1/
(b) World Ban-k Loansr Terms of onlending are assumed at an
interest rate of 9.35% per annum over 12 years, the first
three years being a period of grace during which no
principal is repaid.   Repayments are made semi-annually,
i.e. 22 installments in all, on an equal installments
basis.
(c)  34RDA Loan: The terms for this loan are 10L--- per anrum
over thee years, with equal annual repayments over the
life of the loan.
5.        Since 1968-1969 an annual charge has beer. made for nlotional
interest on funds used internally.   The charge is calculated at 1% abcvo
the prevailing bank rate and accumulates in the financial reserve.  It i.s
assumed that this charge, which represents retained earnings, wiLl Cont:-r.ue
to be made and is included in the equity.
6.        Annual charges for depreciation are calculated to write off 9V)%
of the book value of assets entered at original purchase cost on a stra: ght
line basis over their estimated life.   To provide sufficient resources to
replace eidsting assets at increased cast, depreciation only up to the
book value is insufficient, and a charge for "special depreciation" amro'i.nting
to an additional 50% of normal depreciations, was int.roduced in r1973-74
(Chapter 5, para 5.11).
1/ The assumed onlending rate to B&JT of 9.35% was based on the Bank's
lending rate at the tim.e of negotiations (8385%) plus 0.50% onlendinj,
fee by BMRDA (see para 4.0l).   The Bankis lending rate later deternmned
to be applicable to this loan, how'ever, is 8.70% such that the onlen:i.ag
rate to BEST will be 9.20%.   The reduction in BEST's debt servicing
requirement is not significant.



ANNEX 10
TabLe I
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Assumptions on Inflation Rates for Financial Projections
1976-77 1977-78 1978-79 1979-80 1980-81
A. Capital Expenditure
Buses, Electrical Equipment,Overhaul
Inflation rates, March to March               9%        8%       8%        8%       7%
Price Indices
At year's end (March 1976=100)             109      118       127       137      147
Average for year (March 1976=100)          104       114      122       132      142
Civil Works
Inflation rates, March to March              12%      12%       12%       11%      10%
Price Indices
At year's end (March 1976=100)             112      125       140       156      172
Average for year (March 1976=100)          106       118      132       148      164
Studies
Inflation rates, March to March              10%       10%      10%       10%      10%
Price Indices
At year's end (March 1976=loo)             110      121       133       146      161
Average for year (March 1976=100)          105      116       127       140      154
B. Transport--Recurrent Expenditure
and Receipts
Bus Operating Costs (for mixed fleet)
Inflation rates, March to March             10%       10%      10%        9%       8%
Costs (in rupees per km. including
constant passenger tax of Rs. 0.13
per km) average for year               2.96     3.24      3.55     3.86      4.16
Other Transport Receipts
Inflation rates                             10%       10%      10%        9%       8%
C. Electricity Supply--Recurrent Expendi-
ture and Receipts
Cost of Electricity, cost of Distri-
bution
Inflation rates (average for year)          10%       10%      10%        9%        8%
Price index, year end (March
1976=100)                                 110       121      133       146      161
Other Electricity Receipts
Inflation rates                             10%      10%       10%        9%       8%
Source: Mission estimate.
October 1976



INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BOMBAY ELhCITICITY SUPPLY AND TAANSPOKIT UNrERlAMING
BEST Transport - Operating Statement
(Rs-lahba.)
1973-74   1974-75   1975-76   1976-77   1977-78   1978-79   1979-80   1980-81
Operating Revenues                  19d2i      2641      304I7    3-722    64164 5226               6TJi      6950
Operating Expenses                  1926       2493      2754       3388      3969       4589      5216       5874
Depreciation                         272        354       470        580       714        817        965      1068
Total Operating Expenses          2198       2847      3224       3968      4683       5406       6181      6942
Operating Surplus (Deficit)         (216)      (206)     (177)      (246)      (223)     (180)       (67)        8
Non-Operating Income                  45         60        59         73        88        104       122        139
Net Income                          (171)      (146)     (118)      (173)     (135)       (76)       55        147
Interest                              51         57       134        138       201        259        256       302
Net Income                          (222)      (203)     (252)      (311)      (336)     (335)     (201)      (155)
Taxation                              94        126       147       130         156      183         214       243
Surplus After Tax                   (316)      (329)     (399)    (441)        (492)    (518)       (415)     (398)
RATIT0
Working Ratio                         97         94        90         91        89         88         85        85
Operating Ratio                      111        108       106        107       105        103        L0        10_



IND IA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BOMBAY ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AND TRANSPORT UNDERTAKING
BEST Electricity - Operating Statement
Rs lakrls
1973-74  1974-75  1975-76   1976-77   1977-78   1978-79   1979-80   1980-81
Operating Revenues
Electricity Sales              1760      2445     2827       3432      3837        4283       4709       5124
Working Expenses
Purchase of Electricity        1232      1739     2152       2403      2683        2995       3316       3634
Distribution Costs              338       411       453       498       548         603        657        710
Total Working Expenses         1570      2150     2605       2901      3231        3598       3973       4344
Depreciation                    136       146       153        163      174         184        198        215
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES       1706      2296     2758       3064      3405        3782       4171       4559
Operating Surplus                  54       149        69        368      432          501        538       565
Non-Operating Income              206       281       275        343      388          440        492        545
Net Income                        260       430       344        711      820          941       1030       1110
Interest                           84        93        96        141      121         108          90         73
Net Surplus After Interest        176       337       248        570      699          833        940       1037
RATIOS
Working Ratio                      89        88        92        85        84          84         84         85
Operating Ratio                    97        94        98         89       89          88         89          69



INDIA
BOMi3AY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BOMBAY ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AND TANSPORT UN11ERTAXING
Statement of Reserves and Appropriations
1976-77   1977-78   1978-79   179-8)   1980-81
Net Surplus after Intereat and Tax                                       'Rs lakhs)
Electricity                                       570        699       833        940       1037
Transport                                         (244)     (492)      (518)      (41h5)    (398)
Sub-total for BEST undertakinrg                 129        207        315       525        639
~np1oyees' Conce5sionsjTokene_for FaresJ        (84)       (92)     (101)      (11.0)     (9)
Transfer to IMC                                         (40)      (56)       v@o)       (96)      S
Sinkinig Fund:
Interest Earned                                   956         66         69        52         77
Net Charge in Year                               (1h4)       551        (52)      287        (66)
ropriations:
Financial Reserve - Flectricity                   (90)       (99)     (1o9)      (120)      (132)
- Transport                    (90)       (99)     (109)      (2.20)     (132)
Electricity Supply Contingency Reserve            (30)       (33)       (36)      (ho)       /( L,)
Surplus (Deficit)                                (256)       445        (63)      378        183
; tJ ULAlI v ;                                   (56)        1-          26                  687P
~~LU7  126 ~~~~~t)4  687Wj_



ANNEX 12
Table I
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BOMBAY ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AND TRANSPORT UNDERTAKING
BEST Transport - Cash Flow
(s. Cres7
1976-77    1977-78      1978-79      1979-80      1980-81
Probable                       Forecast
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Trading Surplus 'Deficit) Before Interest
and Appropriations                                (173)      (128)         (76'         55           147
Deduct Notional Income from Tokens                   (84)       (92N        (101         (1'10)        (119)
Add Depreciation                                     580        714          817          965         1068
Internal Less Generation from Operations         323       494          640          910          1096
Sale of Assets                                        92         74           48         143           140
Interest on Sinking Fund Investments                  36         24           26          19            43
Sinking Fund Investments Realised to
Redeem Loans                                        28        278           55         181            61
Deposits - Increase (Decrease'                        50        100          100         (150)          (50)
Increase in Accounts Payable                          43         40          39           38            35
TOTAL SOURCES                               572       1010          908         1141          1325
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Fixed Capital Expenditure                            745       1465         1245        1242          1093
Investment of Sinking Fund:
Current Contributions                               46         44          39           51            57
Interest Received                                   36         24          26           19            43
Increase in Inventories                                6         19           22          25            28
Advantage to Suppliers                                40         50           60         (30)           (70)
Increase in Accounts Receivable                       20         23           19          37            34
COM Passenger Tax                                    130       156          183          214           243
Debt Service
a) Interest
On Loans Contracted Before 4/1/76          116       108           97           82            72
On Loans Contracted After  4/1/76
Other than World Bank Loan              18         28           36           59            84
On World Bank Loan                           4        65          126          115           146
b) Repayment of Principal
On Loans Contracted Before 4/1/76         175        425          202          328           208
On Loans Contracted After  4/1/76
Other than World Bank Loan              50         50           50 
On World Bank Loan                                                              69           139
Sub-Total Debt Service                      363        676          511          653           649
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                         1386       2457         2105         2211          2077
DEFITCT ^'1 PE FTNANrEP                                8114      1447        1197         1070           752
a)  Transfer from Electricity                    235        473          372          435           5
b) Borrowings:
Open Market Loans                         200        200          200          600           200
BMRDA/World Bank Loans                     229       774          625           35
BMRDA Loans                                150 
579       974          825          635           200
TOTAL FINANCING                             814       1447         1197          1070          752



AUNEY 12
T:*ble 2
INDA
BOMBAY URBAN ITRSPORT PROJECT
BOMBA' ELACTRICITI SUPPLY AND TRANSPORT UNDERTAKING
BEST Electric t - Cash Flow
(Rs. Cr~~
SOURCES                                            19 7&.77   .977-75        197879       1979, 80     93-8 i
Surplus before interest                               711         820          941         1030         X11
Depreciation                                         163          174          184          19 
Sale of assets                                        45           36           23           71           I9
Interest on sinking fund investment                    60          42           43           3            334
Sinking Lund investments                              47          472           95          309          OI,
Lncrease in accounts payable                          :21          20           20           18        _1
TOTAL SOURCES                            1047         1564         1306         1659         t[l9
APV'LICATICTS
Fixed capital expenditures                           373          414          453          502          568
Hire purchase housing scheme                          (1)         (1)          (1)          (1)          (1)
Sinking fund investments
Current Contributions                              80           89           94          100           97
Interest received                                  60           42           43           33           34
Increase in other investments                        (10)           2            4            3            4
Increase in inventories                                 3            9          10           12
Increase in accounts receivable                        10          11           10           18           1l
Payment to BMC                                        40           56           40           96           40
Debt Service
Interest                     ,                    141          121          108           90            3
Repayment of principal                             47          472           95          309          1 Ow
Sub-total of debt service                      188          593          203          399         11`7
TOTAL A?YLICATIONS                             743         1215          856         1162         9 0
Gross cash surplus                             304          349          450         497
Less assistance & transport division          (235)        (473)        (3723       (435)        (25? i
Net surplus for year                            69,       (124)          78           62
Cash at beginning of year                     580          649         525          603          66;
Cash at end of year                           649          525          603         665



ANNEX 13
INDIA-
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BOMBAY ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AND TRANSPORT UNDERTAKING
Comparative Balance Sheets As At March 31. 1976 Through 1981
(Rs. Crores)
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
ASSETS AND OUTIAY
Fixed Assets lI
Electricity                                           38.65   41.93   45.71   50.01   54.32   59.31
Less Accumulated Depreciation                      16.25   17.88   19.62   21.46   23.44   25,59
Net Fixed Asset in Operation                   22.40   24.05   26.09   28.55   30.88   33.72
Transport                                             38.92   44.95   56.86.  66.83   82.32   91.87
Less Accumulated Depreciation                     15.75   21.55   28.69   36.86   46.51   57.19
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                  23.17   23.40   28.17   29.97   35.81   34.68
Housing Hire Purchase Scheme for Employees             0.66    0.65    0.64    0.63    0.62    0.61
Sub-Total - Net Fixed Assets in Operation    46.23   48.10   54.90   59.15   67.31   69.01
WORK IN PROGRESS                                              0.27    0.77    2.77    4.77    0.27    0.25
Investments - Sinking Fund                                17.11   18.58   13.07   13.59   10.72   11.38
Other                                       0.32    0.22    0.24    0.28    0.31.   0.35
Sub-Total - Investments                        17.43   18.80   13.31   13.87   11.03   11.73
Current Assets
Cash and Current Deposits                              2.15    6.49    5.25    6.03    6.65    7.12
Fixed Terms Deposits                                   3.65     --       --      --       --
Inventories                                            7.33    7.42    7.70    8.02    8.39    8.81
Accounts Receivable                                    3.35    3.65    3.99    4.28    4.83    5.34
Sub-Total -                                    16.48   17.56   16.94   18.33   19.87   21.27
Less Accounts Payable                               9.12    9.80   10.41   11.01   11.77   12.39
Sub-Total - Current Assets                      7.36    7.76    6.53    7.32    8.10    8.88
Advances to Staff and Suppliers                            3.57    3.97    4.47    5.07    4.77    4.07
TOTAL ASSETS AND OUTLAY                      74.86   79.40   81.98   90.18   91.48   93.94
LIABILITIES AND SURPLUSES
Long Term Debt
Electricity:
Fixed Maturities - Borrowed Before 3/31/76        17.81   17.34   12.62   11.67    8.58    7.54
Transport:
Fixed Maturities - Borrowed Before 3/31/76         12.39   12.07    9.35    8.79    6.78    6.07
Borrowed After 3/31/76          1.93    2.00    4.00    6.00   12.00   14.00
Instalment Loans - Borrowed Before 3/31/76         6.53    6.07    5.60    5.13    4.66    4.19
_ BMC                  5.01    4.00    3.00    2.00    1.00        --
Borrowed After 3/31/76
- BMRDA                 --     1.00    0,50      -- 
- BMRDA/IBRD            --     2.29   10.03   16.28   15.94   14.55
Sub-Total - Transport Debt                     23.93   27.43   32.48   38.20   40.38   38.81
Sub-Total - Debt Outstanding                   41.74   44.77   45.10   49.87   48.96   46.35
Sinking Fund                                              17.11   18.58   13.07   13.59   10.72   11.38
Deposits                                                  10.02   10.52   11.52   12.52   11.02   10.52
Equity and Provisions
Financial Reserve - Electricity                        0.95    1.85    2.84    3.93    5.13    6.45
- Transport                        0.95    1.85    2.84    3.93    5.13    6.45
Electricity Contingency Reserve                        2.00    2.30    2.63    2.99    3.39    3.83
Insurance Funds                                        1.98    1.98    1.98    1.98    1.98    1.98
Staff Benefits and Provision Funds                     0.11    0.11    0.11    0.11    0.11    0.11
(Deficits) Surpluses 1/                                --   (2.56)   1.89   1.26    5.04    6.87
Sub-Total - Equity and Provisions               5.99    5.53   12.29   14.20   20.78   25.69
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SURPLUSES              74.86   79.40   81.98   90.18   91.48   93.94
RATIOS
Debt/Equity Ratio                                         64:36   65:35   64:36   64:36   61:39   56:46
Current Assets to Current Liabilities                     64:36   64:36   62:38   65:35   65:35   64:36
Current Assets (Excluding Inventories)
to Current Liabilities                                  50:50   51:49   47:53   49:51   51:49   51:49
It  Deficits to end 1975/76 written off against Financial Reserves by BEST.



INDIA
BC~AY  RBAN  TRANJSPIT PXREICT
?roj ect    lementati on and Sunoerois ion
A. LoMect'lenentationl
BEST
I.        Buses and 4ui-pmant:  The Stores Aapartrnent of.  E3Ts
transport division would supervise the procurement of bus chassis,
bus bodies, and workshop depot equipm'tent and too1s    Bus chassis andl
major spare chassis components would be procured af-ter international
competitive bidding through twQ supplier Contracts I/  w.Yering 465
and 235 single and double-deck chassis respectively.   The procurement
timetable and delivery schedules are sho,n in Table 1.   Bus body
contracts would be let after the chassis supplier and final del1very
schedules are determined.  Each contract -sould provide for bodies to be
mounted at a rate of 30 per month arnd for delivery wilthin sixty days if
the suppliers' receipt of the chassis.  Workshop equipment wIlI be
procured through one or more contracts after international competitive
bidding.   Depot e!quipment would be procured under two or more eontrarts
after local competitive bidding.   The procurement timetable is shown
as Table 2.
2.        Civil 'Works    The Civil ingineering Depar ment of 3R3Tts
transport division would supervise the program for con_struction and
expanLsion of workshops, depots and bus shelters and term-nii   Th,e
proposed implementation timetable for these works is shown as Table 3
3.        Land: All land requiring piarchase from pr1-vate owners for
depots and bus ternini is already In the possession of BEST    Suitab: e
arrangements have been made for the t-imely transfer of pu'blic lands ri-qudired,
A parcel of land oimed by GOM h.as been designated as the site Lor the
secord workshop.   BIDA has recoarinended its transfer to 3E3T by DeceTrber 197L.
4.        Technical Assistance/Train :  A suitabl-y quaaiied bus tr:n3Port
operations specialist (or sial sts) woLd be engaged for a total o
twenty man-months commencing in January, 1977 to suppl -rent and train  B3ST's
permanent staff.   Terms of reference are to be prepared by BEST with BRUnk
assistance.   A draft training prograrm vould be -made avail-. le to the BMnk
by December 31, 1976.
1/   Or one cantract cov-ering 325 single and 175 double!deck chassis,
which at BEST's option mar be extended to cover tthe total qu.antiies.



A.NE 1L
Page 2
BN,C
A11 procurerent by 3HIC would be carried out by an Urban
Transport Project Unit whi ch 3iiC has established under tne City
iEngineer.
pEqui;ment:  Traffic contro'l equipmernt will be procured through
one supplier contract with the following timetable:
:tnLder       Deadline Bid        Contract       Comnmen-ce        Complete
invitation       Submission           Award               r          Delivery
6/77              9/7T            11/77           1/7 8            6/78
7.        CL-vil Works:  Traffic engineering works would be let in a
relatively larEe nuwmber of tenders which would as appropriate group
individual subprojects prepared for commencement at about the same
time.   The proposed timetable of individual subprojects is shoum as
Table i+.
8.        Land:  All land requiring purchase from private oniers for
traffi_ engineering works is already in the possession of BMIC.  suit-
able arrangements have been made for the timely transfer of public lards
required.   Appropriate arrangerments for resettlement of squatters on
BMC property to be used for the Drainage Channel Road extension have been
made by BIMC.
9.        Technical Assistance/Training:  A suitably quallfied traffic
engineer (or engineers) would be engaged for a total of twenty man-months
commencing in January, 1977 to supplement and train BMIC's permanent staff.
Terms of reference have been prepared by BMiC with Bank assistance.   A
proposed training program would be made available to the Bank by December 31,
1976.
OC, e      iroject Coordi nation and              Unonitorng Unit to be created under
tr.e Transport and Commuhicatiois Board of tre I3PuiDA would assumTse overall
responsibility for timely and efficient project> execution (see Chart 19568).
Jur'ng loan negotiations assurances were obtained t.-at the unit would be
es tablished by December ;.-.
L1.       Technical  'ssistance/T-aining:  Arr-ax,ements for technical assistance
tc       unLr.der the project are detailed in Iection 3 of Annex 2.  Training
recuIrements will be identified by., 3,iqDA during the course of project
1raplemontation.
B.            . erveci ervi si on
L2.       T.e ,proc-curement anda installation of equipment an c the
cr.t-racting a-nd supervision cf, ci,vil works under the project are
r7elatively; si mple and are being carried out by effective agencies
with substantial excernience in sirmilar activit-ies.   BEST will undertak.-e



AI_NX 21A
Page 3
international competitive bidding for the first time but
will be able to receive assistance as required from BI4C's Water
Supply and Sanitat-Ion Department which has let a number of such
equipment contracts under the Credit 390-IND.
13.       The project objectives arnd concept are innovative to
India.   Bus and traffic operations improvements and traffic
management analysils on a broad scale have not been dealt with in
a comprehensive marner as proposed under the project.   The
development of B'EDA's broader planning and financing functions
will also involve much additional review and consultation beltween
concerned authoriti-es and with the Bank.   It is expected that a
suabstantial amount of Bank supervision would be required to assist
in the further development of BM4RDA, to review BEST's financial
performance, to assist in the preparation of bus and traffic
operations work programs and monitoring procedures and to supervise
project implementat,ion.  Expected Bank staff requirements,
supplemented as recuired by short-term consultants are summarized
as Table 5.



Table 1
INDIA
BCM1BAY UIBA91 TRANSPORtT triCJECT
Implementation Timetable and Delivery Schedule:
BEST Bus Chassis/Spare Chassis Components
Timetable:
Item                                    Event and Date
Deadline
Invite      Bid           Award       Commence   Complete
Tenders    Submission   Contract   Delivery   Delivery
Contract 1: 325 single           6/76          9/76        11/76         1/77        3/78
and     double deck chassis
and spare chassis components
Contract 2: -;.0 single          11/77         1/78         4/78        6/78         3/79
and  C double deck chassis
and spare chassis components
Delivery Schedule:
Iteip                                      Dates and Number of Units
Contract 1:                              iZ77   /77     97/77        3/78    Total
Single Deck Chassis         iu0    '  9f 0C              45       45        325
Double Deck Chassis                            eC 35  3           15        175
6/78       9/78  12,/78    3/79    Total
Contract 2:
Single Deck Chassis                                              1140
Double Deck Chassis          15        15       15                60
Source: Mission Estimate
5.-emuer :976



AtRTNEX L!
Table 2
INDIA
BCMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Implementation Timetable: EEsT - ?orks /ep       qupmet
:tem                                    Event 4and Date
Deadline
Invite     Bid           Award       Commence   Complete
1'enders    Submission   Contract   DeliverZ   Deliv!ry
Thterr.n,Iionally Bid       6/76       10/76         9/77         6 /77      10/7;S
Locally -Advertised
Items:
Contract 1               10/76       1/77         3/77         5/77        5/76
Contract 2               10/77       1/78         3/78         7/78        7/75.i



1L 1
Table 3
INDIA
BOMBAY URTBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Implementation Timetable:BEST Civil Works
Item                                     Event and Date
Complete
Detailed         Award        Commence    Complete
Engineering      Contract   TWork          Work
Bus Depots
Goregaon (new)                5/76           10/76        11/76        12/77
Dharavi (new)                 6/77           10/77         11/77         7/79
Bandra (new)                 11/76            7/77          8/77        6/78
Marol (improvement)          11/76            3/77          4/77         4/78
Kurla (improvement)          11/76            3/77          4/77       12/77
Worli (improvement)           5/78            9/78         10/78         4/79
Workshops
Dadar (improvement)           8/77           12/77          1/78       10/79
New Workshop                 11/77            3/78          4/78       10/79
Bus Shelters/Termini
Dahisar                       9/76            1/77          2/77        8/77
Chembur                       4/77            8/77         10/77        4/78
Andheri                       5/77            8/77         10/77         4/78
Borivli                       5/77            9/77         10/77         4/78
Goregaon                      5/78            9/78         10/78        4/79
Vikhroli                      6/78            9/78         10/78        4/79
Ghatkopar                     6/78            9/78         10/78        4/79
Versova                      10/78            3/79          4/79        10/79
Malabar                      10/78            3/79          4/79        10/79
Worli                        10/78            3/79          4/79        10/79
Govandi                      10/78            3/79          4/79       10/79
Source: BEST
October 1976



NNEIX iL
""able 4
INDI A
BOMBAY URBAN TRANS?ORT PROJECT
r2oPosed iMplementation Timetable A         (;i ivil Workcs
Item                                       Event and Date
Complete
Detailed       Award         Commence    Complete
Engineering    Contract    WTork         Work
Flyovers
Aurora                        7/76         1-2/76         1/77        12/78
Parel                         5/76          1L2/77        1/73        10/79
Bharat Mata                   5/76          12/77         1/78        10/79
Lalbaug                       4/76          ULI/76        1/77         6/78
Gloria Church                 5/76          12/76         1/77       10/78
Byculla Bridge                5/76          :L2/77        1/78        10/79
Mabini Church                  6/77         :L2/77        1/73        10/79
Mahim Causeway                 4/76         11/76         1/77         8/78
Channeliz ation
Palton Road                   8/76          10/76        11/76         3/77
Gokhale Road                  3/77          10/77        11/77         4/78
^Abdil Gaffarkhan Road        5/78           9/78        10/78         6/79
Worli Naka                    5/77           9/77        10/77         6/78
Glaxo                         8/77          1L2/77        1/78         6/78
Veer Savakar Road              5/78          9/78         10/78        6/79
Cadell Road                   5/77           9/77        10/77         5/78
Hari Niwas                    4/76          10/76        12/76         5/77
Lady Hardinge Road            4/76          :LO/76       12/76         5/77
Road/Bridge Wideninas/ Ex;ensions
Opera House                    4/77          9/77        10/77        10/78
Tardeo Circle                 4/76          10/76        11/76         3/77
Drainage Channel              5/76         :12/76         2/77        9/77
Sion Railway Bridge           4/76          10/76        11/76       12/78
Marine Street                  4/76         1L2/76        1/77         6/78
Thakcardwsar                   2/77          9/77        10/77       12/78
SV. Road (Bandra)             4/76         12/76          1/77        5/77
Pedestrian Briges
Kingts Circle Station         4/76         10/76         12/76        4/77
Sewfri                        4/76         1(/76         12/76        6/77
Pedestrian T;nnels
Sion junction                 6/76         10/76         11/76       12/78
Sion Circle                   6/76        10)/76         11/76       10/78
Xhodadad Circle               5/76         12/76          1/77       12/78
Hadji Ali Circle              4/76         10/76         11/76        6/78
Shiva,ji Park                 1/77         10/77         11/77        4/79
S-urce: BMC
October 1976



I NDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Supervision Requirements
(Man Weeks in Office and (Field))
Bank Fiscal Year and Ouarter
1977                     1978             -     ii1979 II     171980
li    III    IV    I    II    III    IV         I    *L    I]l    I7    I    II    TOTAL
Project Officer             2     3(2)   2      3(2) 2      2(1)   2        2(1) 2      2(2)   2      2(2) 3(2)  29(12)
Civil Engineer              2     2(2)   2      1(2) 1      1(1)   1        1(1) 1      1(2)   1      1(2) -       15(10)
Financial Analyst           -     1       1     2(2) 2       -      1       2(l) -      1       1      -    -      11(3)
Procurement Specialist    1       1       1     1    -  4-                           -                      -
Traffic Engineer
Consultant        -      1(2)          -    -      1(2)   -       -    -      1(2)   -       -    -       3(6)
Transit Specialist          -     -       -     1(2) -      1(2)   -        -    -      1(2 )   _      _    -       3(6)
Total per Quarter           5     8(6)   6      8(8) 5      5(6)   4        5(3) 3      6(7)   4       3(4) 3(2)
Total per Fiscal Year       -    19(6)   -      -   22(14)          -       -    18(10) -       -      -   6(6)   65(37)
Source:  Mission Estimate.
October 1976



ANNEX 15
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                          Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                at End of Quarter
__( (US$ million)
FY 1977
December 31, 1976                               0.5
March 31, 1977                                   2.2
June 30, 1977                                   5.1
FY 1978
September 30, 1977                              7.3
December 31, 1977                               9.9
March 31, 1978                                 13.1
June 30, 1978                                  15.6
FY 1979
September 30, 1978                             17.2
December 31, 1978                              19.8
March 31, 1979                                 22.5
June 30, 1979                                  24 .1
FY 1980
September 30, 1979                             24.5
December 31, 1979                              25.0
Source: Mission Estimates
September 1976



INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF BOMBAY METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
(Status: March 1976)
AUTHORITY
STANDING COMMITTEE
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
a                              aS
*                              *                        U
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..___.. . . .. . . .. . . .                                  ..__._._...................._.__. -__. _   
T S T D MI  HOUSING, URBAN      WATER RESOURCES
METROPOLITAN COMMISSIONER         Bp a,a*tm*a*a  TRANSPORT AND COMMUNICATIONS        RENEWAL AND ECOLOGY           MANAGEMENT
(  _                BOARD          ~    ~R        BOARD                     BOARD        J
a                      a                              a                         a
GOUN I- lIse PlA\NNIER  I    [NACAL ADVISO    ....          MEMBER SECRETARY                MEMBER SECRETARY         MEMBER SECRETARY
....  _    .. .  ,                   _ -            r    ~ ~~~~~                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  a   
| I(isWsN ANDJ |         ACCOUNTrING    ||TRANSPORT  P [ROJECT   | TRAFFIC    |  |                USING                 WATER
COUlN IRtY             FINAND  FINANCIAL ||STAFF   MBCOORDIN-  SPLANNING                    M        S ETCARFFB  S    M  RESOURCES
|  I lANNING           MANAGEMENT                UNIT         ATION AND   AND                SUNIT                     RESTAFF
|   IVISION                                                   MOOEPARTMENT  MONTRING  EVALUATION          UNIT
UNIT        SUB-
COMMITTEE
-~~---~~~''-~~OI facu~~~~I  I cp'-w- -------
-   -- of icisal  | epor{t ting
........Adlvisory o0 ex officio
World Banik-15968



INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE BOMBAY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
CORPORATION
SP EEL S         NSLAV                             IMROEMENS         ETCArO RS
| COhlMITTrEES |  | COMMITTEEU            COMMISSIONER
GENERAL MANAGERC
OF t3EST
DEPUTY MUNICIPAL               FAOMINISTRATuVE                     l
COMMISSIONERlS                    DEPART MENTSOHRAMIITAW
DIRECTLY SUPERVISED
WARD                OERAMNISTRATV
ADMINISTRATION               DEPARTMENTS                                   TRANSPF1T
OPERATIONS
World Bank-15969



INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE BOMBAY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
ROADS DEPARTMENT
(Status: March 1976)
CORPORATION
STANDING COMMITTEE
MUNICIPAL COMMISSIONER
DEPUTY MlJNICIPAL   DEPUTY MUNICIPAL   DEPUTY MUNICIPAL          DEPUTY MUNICIPAL   DEPUTY MUNICIPAL   DEPUTY MUNICIPAL
COMMISSIONER      COMMISSIONER       COMMISSIONER                COMMISSIONER       COMMISSIONER       COMMISSIONER
ZONE I            ZONE 11            ZONE III                   PERSONNEL          IMPROVEMENTS        SPECIAL ENGIN.
LEGAL                                         CHIEF
DEPARTMENT           CITY ENGINEER            ACCOUNTANT
DEPARTMENT
DEPUTY CITY        DEPUTY CITY       DEPUTY CITY                           PROPOSEDNDEPUT  ITY                    DEPU|Y cI rY
ENGINEER           ENGINEER          ENGINEER            DEPUTY CITY       PROJECT ENGI-i.     ENGINEERfl         ENGINEER
ZONE I             ZONE 11           ZONE III            ENGINEER          NERINGU/            MECHANICAL         PLANNING
ROAD                              CONSTRUCTION           BUJDGET
TRAFFIC            TRAFFIC           PLANNING            DRIDGE             ZONE I            CONTROL &
OPERATIONS          PLANNING         PROGRAMMING          DESIGN             ZONE II           PERFORMANCE
BUDGETING                               ZONE III          MONITORING
World Bank-15970



INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE BOMiAY ELECTRIC
SUPPLY AND TRANSPORT UNDERTAKING
(Status: March 19h3
BOMBAY MUNICIPAL
CORPORATION
BEST COMMITTEE
BOMBAY EL-ECI IC
SUPPLY & TRANSPORT
GENERAL MANAGEfi
V:rV             [   EGAL                                              VON
|  [-l ATI|N      L  ADVISER                AC               |MA
VI_ IA     1          PONINTFRNAL                                Bu _OPERAD N                                           FtTANA I                              SI 
VVill ANCEl MANA^G                 E        AD_  1               AND MANAAGEMENT-                                                  MATERIALS                  SOUTH
---  - E                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coninne,c,aI
E3  E <  ~~~TASK FRis
._    1. _        I                     l        [      -                                                                                              fPAY     I - 
EL.lEUllCv)N^C                             CtilEF CIVIT         ACISEI    E  J
:D  i A              _ToE:_                ENG II1, NEERTlAS R                                                                                                            CA
CHIE
C ILIIIONII. 
D TSPAT C           T|AFFIC               TICKETS r          SUPER ;
SCfIEDULES   I          CONTROL   I  I  S:JPERINTEN            8          i         I     I N LEN()ENT
TtRANSPONEl    |                              |  OPEVLRATIONS                                       OROOM                 ENTS                 CASH           [   CONSIIMERS
EXCIV  E[ C             UIIIV                                                                                                   L  EJEST      X
;ENGINEER    | |ENGINEER   I                tIIEHtN-|N       SUPLRIN-       I  5hJi'LIIIN -
DE VEILOPMENT | |WORKSIIOPS |              ELNOENT       |  1 END;ENI 2    L  TENDEN r 3J
VVi k,t,dil       M,iACl,ce                                D
T,wi lilstB                                                 es,oW                                                                                                    1
VW.,Id dJrmk1 15971



INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BEST PASSENGER AND PASSENGER KILOMETER DEMAND
25 0
|                                                                    { PHoJrcT PEIllH0 
OCTOBER  19 7    SEPrL-IEFR 195     9
(t11 1 .1 .       _- __-- .__---- ___  __ __  _- _ _----- _____--- _                                                    -       ..-------- _ -  - I-- __-_ _                               __   _____                   _ ____ _.            ___   .   _     __._ _ __
HO~~~~.. _,_,._    ____ __.   __ _   _,_ _  ., _._ ._ ..... _.__.__                  _____ ___.____    ________ _.__. ____ ____.___
Io  EJ
'9
C)-
I :1 /                19/I                 1972                   19/3                   i974                  1970                  79/6                   19/7                    19/8                  1979                   18                     9i
VV,,, Id  16070



INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
BEST FUTURE BUS FLEET AND DEPOT CAPACITY
2100                                    -   -                                              __- -  __
PROJECT PERIlOD OCT. 1976 - SEPI. 1979                                                                2050
2000    -                      j                                                        -                     --' -                                                                  '_
1900 __        ________   __       . ___ _    ____--~   .________                          _______________                                   _____ ____   _ ____1                         _
1 90 0  |0_l0  -
17C U D----    --.--1647.------- -                                                  |___ >                                                                                      _    _2_  |
D~~~~~~a                                                                                                   1 7 70 0     __   F__
U153                                                                                                                       WU) O  
150  _ __           _     Z__e__ ____                                  __       _ l_ -         - l_..
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ 1770_jF 
"'1400                                                                                                                                                --          ._              ____-- -t ---  - ---  -
cc                            U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)
W                                          a:                 1638                                            a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~178L
________                                                           _____I                  w     w____I_________                                                        _____
16CC-                                          __         0        ,         I < ~        U
z~~14 '2                                                                                                                  x      >
U) 1200 i     _       _          _-   __(                                                    .                . _t>_ . 
c                           0A
Cc --1E"S6'LEET
_______                                                        Z~~~~~~~~>w w                      -w
_  _9 _) ninT                                                                                                   x                     >AI
11539 0 - -   - j - - - - - -          - -                        a                        -   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ________W                        rB_1       J
:20  -
0~~~~~~
r                              01        x   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
1476 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ 
L) ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ '
cc                                             UJ     0   z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
LLJ                                           cn      0- <~~W
1 3 C ~ ~                                                 -     ~        _  _ ~   _  _                        _  _ _ __                  _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _  _     _ _ __>_      _
(JH
W x
s t, .  u V.   W'r-M                    MAH.                       MAR~                       MAR.                       MAR.                       MAR.
1975                      1976                       1977                       1978                       1979                        1980                      1981
YEAH
n  fFf'CnT CAPACITY                                                                                                                                                            WI   1,   60



0  0  l^i.su.,t Crv -> jueArmoobaV                                                      -     ';X  'Xt
VEV:P
7   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w1
'V          K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'a  
(:/.             /u          hv-.X    i             JV      X    i     - t>AV~~             t- -5"/  _      omryUro Tronsport "Proje
S               *r< /1t-t~i                                                                                          2Ol  OYMTRPLTNRGO
t.  t X     \ -                                                                                     le "n!
(    I         - -t           (                         &          uk                           TwmCiiyLinnl2
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                  41       \ g /B ;  lvtosuoe20{e
g F e.>  ^ 0 0 sdE 0 j;1 { <<t                                                                                                                       -2
Jr,, ; ''.' K ,5! iSia;                                                                                  J-\\n /<ioU Mne _
'4  A ~ ~       ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       o-55O'~?~
L~~~~~~~~~~<5 
rn
Kply-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  12
Co,                                          Ioraa                                                          o'>
SAt5ETTE    /K'
BOMBAY                                                             -"'"L                       ~i~oi  ~e   t
'o'  .~~~~~~~~  I~~~~  I  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   C  7 ~~~~~INDIA
2T,. 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  ~~~~"Bombay Urban rransport Project
Kon1t  '~      BOMBAY METROPOLITAN  REGION
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N,Io-e h gh-oy
wee  '                                                                                    Toot ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7City Li.it
.Bomboy-Is~~lanoy boondory
oi-d oiorc  b-issoy
Bomboo MI,np,iopo,,o Regio B-oidory
Ow,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
'~~~~~~~'-~~~~~~~~~~ooi"fl   / ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~     E..,.,b   50f,



I



cC                                   t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A. StN6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S vv  r-~MAY I 76'
-Z                          .- 
al-CE 6 
QD~~~~~~~~-7? N~t3
,E         I     7 VR]         fl
&<// <4/                           -\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
7y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 






hl ondi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
V                  NAT \ SO
CRE~~~~~~~~~~~~~AONGRAE  BMA
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U DEOT WOKSO IMPROVE'MENTS
v  \   t  T  - /                                      X                 /            ; Xh'rvoS/igu3! r  we/lanwe A, the~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jo sttetrihoay
SANTA  R            L    P A\KTAC-RU7I                                                 \G  
*-  : 0  1    2     ~ ~~ ~~AIRPORTX                                      A\ 
gSEA 0  <4                                                   X;1X<< 
o/\mby   Urbn Transport Project
;i ==  ;/  <=0    ;: ;0=;;  = 0      :;;:;;  0i \7          J>        US DEPOT/WORKSHOP IMPROVEMENTS
BDM,t rads'
    Village roas
F-itmog bits dpot
0                            a2  3    7  a                                     <                     e   E.oting dbs depot to oponded
9   P         Wes dona t bn
a  t                                                                       U  Pain~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E,ting workshop  1
t'                                    P,ap-sd raotksh5op 
-- -   -.  3-a.Or town .






)    \   e    /   X .kX  .  f/Dt    To E- Exp. Hwy
INDIA                                                                '
Bombtay Urban Trcrnsport PWotecE    -IN
BUS CIRCULATION iMPROVEMENTS                                                        /
DHARAVI
Roads
New street
*     Grade separotions                                                                                     G A
Street widenirngs
-    Channelizations
E  -  Pedestrian bridges
-    Pedestrian tunnels
80-120 busesperhour,eochdirection           PRABHADEV           aADALA
40-80 buses per hour, each direction                                                                                        --
---+ Railways                                  b   o  WORLI                  ,                       I
P A R E L Residential areas                                                             NAlJ Ib  Ad N I
iMAHAL   KSHMi       / R  S          |r     W  i
.       - K. S        t
MAZAG~O
jJM   AL          hnII0)  ,_  MAZAGAON DOjCK
-; <          i
~  g  , ~sVoll  hoEoi  ttelRd
PRINCE'S DOCK
\5\t &3>   iICTRIA TERMINAL
MALABAR POINT                                                                      f -2  INDIRA DOCK       o            !           2            3
CH URICH    t  sL \77tP                                                    KItLOMETERS
.ATE TERml"l                                    
MILES
GATEWAY OF INDIA
The bosnd res shown on this -nap do not
impiv endorsemnt, or sssls'snce by the
W-sndfB-k -nd las sfpjits,e
JAMSETJI RANDAR                            ______Btnk___________________
"'  )       ,            51'          S
PAKISTAN? - J     .       CHINA
SASSOON DOCKS                                                 !                -        CBHU_AN
C,O L A  5 A  /  .)U& .3   BANGL ADESH?  )
COLABA                                                                                 IN D IA            ~         r-  se
/'AmAHARASTR                    BURMA
COLABA POINT                                                           -        
SRI LANKA
tO'         85'            BR          07 O0



