FILE COPY                                       Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1898-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE BOMBAY METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR AN
URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
October 13, 1976
This document hus a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
0 their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY-EQUIVALENTS
(at at May 4i 1976)
Re 1.oo0-             Paise io0
US$1.00           -   Re 8.97
Re 1.00          -   tS$(.iii5
Re 1 millidn         us$iii,soo
(Prior to SdptAmfbr 24i l975i the Rupee wae offidia1ly va1Ued at
a fixed Poufid Sterl-ing rate.  Since thuin it hna bdfi fiked re;
i&tive to a "b&gkct!  odf iuenU&s.    As th&ee Gurrencies are
how flodatifig, the U.S. bo1lat/Rup&e Xdh1iAg6 frte is §ubjd6f
to changeg ea  verSionS in the AppraiSal Report wefr made at
US$1 tod Rs 8.80)
FISCAL YEAR
Aprtil 1  MAich 31
Liit 6_Abbt&viat-ioui Atid Actony-ms USed int hikt Repor
GOi    - G    fo o-imiifit of hidia
GOM    -Statt Govetnmenf of Mahat&ahtfa
BMRDA  '   MfiabAy Mftropoiifan Region Developefint Auth6fity
BMO       BomffbAy M&ifiipal- CorporAfion
BE        Bolmtbay E1ecttflc Supply and Transport UndftAkifig Of
t-ho Boafiby MHiiieipal Corporatiof
BMR,      AoiDaby Mttfopolftani Region



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
BOMBAY METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
FOR THE BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority in an amount equiva-
lent to US$25 million to improve bus services in Greater Bombay and to support
improved development planning and traffic management in the Bombay Metropo-
litan Region. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 4 1/2 years
of grace, with interest at 8.7% per annum. The Bombay Metropolitan Region
Development Authority (BMRDA) would relend US$5.7 million equivalent of the
loan to the Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) for traffic engineering works,
to be repaid over 20 years, including 4 1/2 years of grace, with interest at
9.2% per annum. US$18.9 million equivalent would also be relent by BMRDA to
BMC for the benefit of its subsidiary, Bombay Electric Supply and Transport
Undertaking (BEST), for a period of 15 years, including 3 years of grace at
9.2% interest per annum for execution of the bus service component of the
project. The balance of US$0.4 million would be retained by BMRDA to cover
costs of technical assistance and training to be provided under the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY-/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1073-IN dated March 29, 1976), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 2, 1976. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 states with
a population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's poverty
and inadequate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of external
resources averaging over the past five years only about US$1.20 per person
per annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must
be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability of
water. A bad monsoon, which is likely to occur about two years out of every
five, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy and can wipe out the
results of years of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of national income over
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the National Seed Project (Report No.
P-1849-IN), dated May 17, 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
the last five years (1971/72 - 1975/76), which included two consecutive mon-
soon failures, has averaged only 2% per annum, less than the rate of popula-
tion increase.
4.         Since independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others, and generally has fallen short of India's mas-
sive needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport,
education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
parts of the world, but in other regions there has been stagnation and possibly
even decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been in general little impact upon the living standards of the vast masses of
the urban and rural population. In recent years, the Government has initiated
a variety of programs specifically directed toward helping the lower income
strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200 million people
with incomes of less than IJS$60 per head per year.
5.         The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained
approximately constant at about 23%. There has, however, been a shift in the
composition of industrial production, with consumer, intermediate, and capital
goods now contributing about one third each, compared with an overwhelming
preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.         India entered 1975/76 having been through one of the most difficult
periods since Independence. Progress in dealing with long-term development
problems had been limited by poor crops, the dramatic shifts against India in
the terms of trade, and inflation. Adjustments to these immediate difficul-
ties thus became the principal preoccupation in economic management. However,
with the support of favorable weather and additional foreign assistance, it
now appears that India has successfully weathered the problems of the recent
past; once again there is hope for an upturn in the growth rate of the economy.
7.        Most important among the favorable factors in 1975/76 was a bumper
harvest which followed years of poor or modest agricultural output. Food-
grain production last year, estimated at around 114 million tons, exceeded
the previous record of 1970/71 by 6%. Oilseeds, sugarcane and cotton also
reached new production peaks and provided ample supplies for the agro-
industries. Secondly, deficiencies in the supply of basic commodities and of
infrastructural inputs such as energy and transport, which had been prevalent
in the past, have been eased. Electricity generation and domestic production
of coal, oil, cement and steel all increased by over 10% during 1975/76.
Finally, the increased supply of agricultural and industrial products and of



- 3 -
services, together with the demand restraint imposed by the Government since
mid-1974, put a stop to inflation. In 1974/75 the Wholesale Price Index had
risen by 23%; in 1975/76 it fell by 3%.
8.        On the balance of payments front in 1975/76, some of the basic
problems of the previous two years remained. In particular, the terms of
trade, which had deteriorated significantly over the previous two years,
moved even further against India. Nevertheless, there were a number of
encouraging developments. Firstly, the build-up of foodgrain stocks during
the year will provide a buffer against the impact of a future crop failure
on the balance of payments. Secondly, despite generally unfavorable world
trading conditions, export earnings rose almost 10%. Thirdly, the value of
petroleum imports was stabilized despite price increases during the year, and
steel imports were substantially reduced due to increased domestic production.
As a result, the value of India's imports rose only 1% during 1975/76 and the
trade deficit was reduced to US$1.25 billion, US$350 million less than in
1974/75. Fourthly, the net transfer of aid was 44% higher than in 1974/75
and India also received substantial inflows of private remittances from
abroad. As a result of these favorable developments, India was able to add
over $800 million to foreign exchange reserves. These reserves will give
India added flexibility in adjusting to a higher rate of economic growth
during 1976/77.
Development Prospects
9.        While many of the most acute problems were eased during 1975/76,
longer-term constraints to growth remain. Many of these have existed for
some time, but their importance had been temporarily overshadowed by the more
overwhelming limitations imposed by supply shortages and balance of payments
problems. One such constraint is the deficiency of demand for a large seg-
ment of the manufacturing industry. Consequently, in the midst of adequate
supplies during 1975/76, the use of manufacturing capacity - especially for
consumer durables - remained low. In the short and medium term, the two most
promising ways of stimulating demand are to boost public investment and ex-
pand exports. Both avenues are currently being pursued by the Government.
During 1975/76, real Plan outlay rose by 18-20%, after having fallen during
each of the previous two years. The 1976/77 Budget proposes a further in-
crease of 16% in real terms and introduces new measures to stimulate invest-
ment in the private sector. Investment priorities remain the same as last
year, namely agricultural development and increased production of critical
industrial inputs, such as power, coal, oil, and iron and steel.    The Budget
also stresses the importance of exports as an essential condition for sus-
tained stability in the balance of payments.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76, the long-term growth rate of foodgrain production
in India has been unacceptably low, at about 2.3% per annum over the last 15
years. This is about the same as the rate of population increase. Starting
from a situation of deficit, this has meant that only in good years has there
been a significant margin of production to cater to any per capita growth in
consumption, and even in normal years it has been necessary to rely on stocks
or imports to meet any growth in demand. With a major effort to expand the



- 4 -
irrigated area and provide complementary inputs, the average growth rate of
foodgrain production could be substantially increased. This is essential,
not only because of the necessity to meet food requirements without unmanage-
able consequences for the balance of payments but also because of the strong
influence of agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the
economy. Even with a higher growth rate of foodgrain production, imports
will still be required. However, in relation to India's total consumption of
foodgrains, the dependence on imports has been and will remain small. In the
past, domestic production has accounted for almost 100% of supplies in good
weather years and about 90% when harvests were poor.
11.       The energy sector in India was characterized by shortages before
the international oil crisis developed. The dramatic hike in oil prices,
coinciding as it did with the accentuation of electric power shortages -
caused in part by low hydroelectric generation due to poor monsoons - led
to an acceleration of measures to improve performance of existing facilities
and to a much higher priority for investments in the energy sector.    The
effects of these measures, aided by the good monsoon, are now starting to be
felt. Coal production has increased by 10% or more in each of the last two
years, and, partly as a result of this, power shortages and restrictions have
been greatly reduced. The medium-term prospects for oil and natural gas have
improved with the delineation of the offshore Bombay High field. Crude pro-
duction from this field is expected to be 1 million tons in 1976/77 and to
reach 6 million tons by the end of the Plan period. On this basis, petro-
leum imports are projected to start declining in 1978/79, as increased crude
production and expanded refinery output more than offset increases in demand.
12.       In the past, export growth was affected in varying degrees.by in-
adequate profitability, lack of access to imported inputs, poor quality,
instability of the policy environment and vulnerability to ad hoc decisions.
In addition, for agricultural commodities export taxes were significant.
For some homogeneous commodities, such as iron ore and tea, inadequate sup-
plies or limited world demand have been important constraints. In recent
years, mainly because of the large trade deficit, the Government's emphasis
on export promotion has intensified. As a result, although the fundamental
orientation of India's industrial and trade policy and the specific instru-
ments of the export regime have, by and large, remained the same, a signi-
ficant F.hift in emphasis and in the way these policies are operated has oc-
curred. These are likely to lead to a better utilization of current export
potential and reflect a willingness to make policy adjustments, when neces-
sary, to expand exports.
13.       While it is difficult to assess the impact of the new measures in
an area where policy is already very complex, some improvement has already
taken place and further improvement in medium-term performance seems likely.
An annual real export growth rate of about 7% should be feasible, compared
to an average of 5% over the last five years. However, to achieve a higher
export growth over the long run, more far-reaching policy measures will be
required, including the introduction of a more uniform and more stable sys-
tem of export incentives. Even so, the export drive might be impeded by
controls in some developed markets.



- 5 -
14.       India's balance of payments problems should be manageable over the
next few years, even with the repayment obligations resulting from recent
short-term OPEC and IMF borrowings. India's debt service ratio has come
down from 31% in 1970/71 to 17% in 1975/76. Provided the real growth of ex-
ports remains at about 7% per annum, the debt service ratio is unlikely to
rise much above 20% in the foreseeable future. On the import side, given the
adequate level of stocks on hand at the end of 1975/76 and assuming normal
weather conditions, annual foodgrain imports could be kept below 5-6 million
tons during the next three years. Within the general category of non-food
imports, India has substantial medium-term import substitution opportunities
for three major items -- petroleum, fertilizer and steel -- which constituted
more than 60% of imports last year. If the medium-term targets for production
in these areas are achieved, the total expenditure on these three import items
in 1978/79 need not be any higher than in 1975/76 and could quite conceivably
be less. Provided the Government is willing to liberalize imports and donors
continue to respond to India's needs, the easing in the external payments
situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment (comple-
mented by larger imports of capital goods, components, and raw materials), and
consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long-term growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
15.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 44 loans and 80 development
credits to India totalling US$1,726 million and US$4,112 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$772 million has been
repaid, and US$1,700 million was still undisbursed as of August 31, 1976.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of August 31,
1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totaling US$58.4
million, of which US$11.2 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$32.7 million, US$26.3 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.4 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of August 31, 1976, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
17.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for



- 6 -
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
18.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. Projects
designed to foster agricultural production through the provision of essential
inputs such as credit for on-farm investments, command area development of
existing irrigation schemes, intensification and streamlining of extension
systems and seed production form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting urban water supply and
sewerage, and urban transport also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export-, and
energy-related projects.
19.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate
investment and accelerate economic growth remains. Bank Group lending for
critical industrial raw materials and components is likely to continue to be
an element within the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import
component of projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas
as agriculture, education, urban development and family planning. For the
Bank Group to be able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing of
projects in these sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local
expenditures.
20.        It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of August
31, 1976, the loans to India held by the Bank totaled US$974 million, of which
US$545 million remained to be disbursed, thus leaving a net amount outstanding
of US$429 million.
21.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank



- 7 -
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion of which the Bank Group's share was
25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in the
future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will also rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - THE URBAN TRANSPORT SECTOR IN THE BOMBAY METROPOLITAN REGION
General
22.       The Bombay Metropolitan Region (BMR) covers a land area of more than
4,000 km2 of the State of Maharashtra. Within this Region, Greater Bombay, in-
cluding the Island City of Bombay and its immediate and extended suburbs,
occupies a land area of 440 km2 and is administered by the Bombay Municipal
Corporation (BMC) (See Map).
23.       With a population of six million in 1971, Greater Bombay is one of
the most densely populated cities of India. It is also one of the country's
leading industrial, financial, and commercial centers, accounting for approx-
imately 20% of industrial output and 3% of national income.
Importance of Urban Transport
24.       Transport has long been a key factor in Bombay's industrial and
commercial growth. The initial settlement of the area was based on natural
transport advantages provided by its harbor. The progressive improvement of
the inter-regional railways and roads built to serve the port have reinforced
Bombay's locational advantages and the development of intra-regional rail
and road transport services has enabled industrial and related residential
development to decentralize and expand in accordance with regional develop-
ment objectives. Although decentralization within the Bombay Metropolitan
Region has significantly helped to relieve pressures on facilities and
services, it has added to the burden on Bombay's transport services. Growth
of employment in new development areas continues to be less than accommodation
for resident workers, thus making it necessary for workers to commute long
distances from the suburbs to the city center for employment.
25.       About 300,000 of the 1,400,000 jobs in the Island City are held
by persons residing in the suburbs and areas outside Greater Bombay. Ap-
proved and ongoing commercial development in the central area of the Island
City of Bombay could by 1981 add another 180,000 jobs and a nearly equivalent
number of long distance commuters. Within the Island City and the suburbs
there are shorter but still heavy local commuter movements which are also
rapidly increasing. Mass transportation rail and bus services carry about 80%



- 8 -
of the passengers by motorized modes (taxis and private motor vehicles
make up the balance 20%). Each mode carries about three million passengers
daily and demand for each has increased by about 5% per annum over the past
decade.
26.       Suburban rail services operated by the Western and Central divi-
sions of Indian Railways carry most of the long-distance passengers, includ-
ing about two-thirds of the 300,000 workers travelling by motorized means
to the Central Bombay Area. Maximum peak flows exceed 120,000 passengers
per hour entering the Island City on high-frequency services operated from
the Central Bombay Area.
27.       Buses operated by the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Under-
taking (BEST) accommodate about two-thirds of road passenger movements,
including rail feeder trips, and comprise about 10% of vehicular traffic.
Maximum peak flows on the three major north-south routes approaching the
central area reach 35,000 passengers per hour. BEST operates an extensive
network of services within the Island City and a rail feeder network in the
suburbs comprising some 1,600 single and double deck buses. BEST is exclus-
ively responsible for scheduled bus services in Greater Bombay. It also
enjoys a monopoly in the supply of electricity to the Island City of Bombay.
Low bus fares have restricted BEST's ability to expand and improve its ser-
vices. The Transport Division of BEST has relied in part on the transfer of
surpluses from its Electricity Division for provision of capital resources and
for expansion.
28.       Car ownership in Bombay is low (about 61 persons per car). The
growth of car ownership and car travel has been checked by very high purchase
and operating costs and taxes. In recent years the number of private vehicles
has increased by about 5% per annum. Private cars account for about 18% of
road passengers and for about 40% of road traffic in congested areas, less
than in most cities of the developing world. Private car traffic contributes
less to congestion than do taxis, pedestrians and the overspill of markets and
goods-loading activities into main roadways. Parking is poorly controlled and
charges in congested areas are still nominal or non-existent.
Problems
29.       The increasingly unbalanced locational pattern of residences and
places of work has in recent years generated a growth in public transport
demand that has exceeded the capacity of the mass transit system and the
capability of the railways and BEST to further improve and expand services.
Mass transport performance measured in terms of overcrowding, waiting times
and regularity and dependability has declined substantially in recent years.
As a result, system performance has deteriorated. Peak periods have in-
creased to nearly three hours in the morning and evening, compared with two
hours in the mid-1960's. Overloading of trains and buses in peak periods has
become extreme. Waiting periods for buses in peak hours have increased to



- 9 -
30-35 minutes compared with 20 minutes only a few years ago. Further
deterioration could restrict access to the labor market of much of the work
force and impede economic growth of the region.
30.       Present mass transport deficiencies have been brought about by
rapid economic and population growth, ineffective planning and control
of commercial land use, and by the inadequacy of public transport revenues
to meet fleet replacement and expansion costs. GOM and GOI have concluded
that further increases in suburban rail capacity are necessary. The Western
and Central Railways have planned a continuation of their suburban rail
improvement program, the costs of which are expected to be about US$131
million (Rs 115 Crores) by 1981. The Railway Board, however, has curtailed
continuing improvement works pending parliamentary action on its request for
commuter fare increases and/or subsidies to offset losses on existing and
expanded suburban services in Bombay and other metropolitan areas. A similar
issue on funding has stalled the planned subway/surface rail line through the
Island City of Bombay estimated to cost US$180 million (Rs 160 Crores). The
resolution of these complex issues, involving national as well as regional
policies is likely to take time.
31.       Meanwhile, efficient use of the available fleet of buses has been
hampered because of overage vehicles, inadequate maintenance facilities,
traffic congestion and outdated routes and schedules. Road passenger trans-
port capacity has also been constrained by the prevention of entry of private
bus and minibus operators. The Government of Maharashtra has over the past
two years initiated low-cost investment solutions as a means of relieving the
increasing burden on its mass transit services. It has begun to implement a
plan for staggered working hours for offices in the Greater Bombay Area and is
about to relocate some office staff from the densely developed central area.
It also has under preparation, regulations to control the construction of
office buildings and conversion of existing buildings into office space, in
the southern half of the Island City. These efforts are expected to be
consolidated and coordinated within an overall regional development context.
Regional Planning - BMRDA
32.       The many central, state and local government agencies presently
engaged in the provision of basic services in the Bombay Metropolitan Region
have operated more or less independently. The combined resource requirements
of these agencies are high and there has been a lack of effective mechanisms
for coordinating policies and investments in the metropolitan region. This
has encouraged individual agencies to retain unrealistic investment perspec-
tives and to avoid difficult pricing and other policy decisions.
33.       The Regional Plan of 1973 prepared by a Regional Planning Board
constituted by the Government of Maharashtra was a first attempt to provide
a common policy and investment focus for the region. It provided the broad
framework for infrastructure development and investment in the BMR. However,
subsequent cost escalations and inadequate financial resources made the Plan
inoperable.



- 10 -
34.       The investment requirements of the Regional Plan were reviewed in
mid-1975 by a high-level committee of GOI and GOM officials which assessed
the investment and resource mobilization requirements in the BMR. The Com-
mittee identified a "minimum" investment program which provides for water
supply, basic housing requirements and public transport facilities in or
adjacent to existing urbanized areas commencing within the next three years,
which together with other reportedly committed schemes amounted to US$702
million. Even these proposals substantially exceed likely resources and
call for a still more critical examination of priorities and resources
mobilization for the BMR.
35.       To deal with the ongoing problems of investment co-ordination, pro-
gramming and resource mobilization, the Government of Maharashtra has in the
past two years moved towards integrated planning and, established the Bombay
Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (BMRDA) as a permanent and broadly
based regional planning, development and financing body. The establishment of
the BMRDA meets a long-felt need for a regional planning, co-ordinating and
development authority in the BMR identified by a Bank mission in 1970 and
reiterated on numerous subsequent occasions. With the establishment of the
BMRDA, GOM has set the stage for serious and timely regional planning, project
financing and resource mobilization initiatives. The present project, designed
to improve bus transport in Greater Bombay, would represent the first major
development and planning effort to be carried out by BMRDA and provide it with
an opportunity to establish itself as a viable regional development authority.
36.       Previous Bank Group Operations:   The proposed project is the second
urban development operation undertaken by the Bank Group in India. The first
Bank Group project (Credit No. 427-IN; US$35.0 million) was made in August,
1973 as part of the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority's (CMDA)
US$230 million program for 1973-76, to rehabilitate and augment basic urban
facilities including road and traffic improvements in Calcutta. Progress
in implementation of this project has been hampered by resource constraints
affecting overall funding of the CMDA program as well as management and or-
ganizational problems and cost escalations in the water supply and sewerage/
drainage sectors. Appropriate measures have been taken to deal with these
problems, however project implementation remains about 24 months behind the
original schedule.
37.       Other Bank Group lending directly benefiting Bombay has included a
Credit (No. 390-IN; US$55 million) made in March, 1974 to finance part of the
first major stage of the Bombay Municipal Corporation's (BMC) development pro-
gram for water supply and sewerage service costing US$158 million. Under this
project, the BMC is the implementing authority through its Water Supply and
Sewerage Department (WSSD). Substantial cost overruns caused by inflation
and aggravated by delays in project design have necessitated the redefinition
and rephasing of the project to fit the available funding. However, project
construction is proceeding and most major contracts for civil works, equipment
and materials have been awarded. This project is expected to be completed by
early 1980, about 18 months behind original schedule.



- 11 -
38.       Other Bank Group lending which has benefited Bombay includes
Credit 280-IN for the Eleventh Railway Project which included finance for
imported equipment for the Western and Central Railways suburban services
serving Bombay and Loan 27-IN to assist in financing the improvement and
expansion of facilities and operations in the Port of Bombay.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The project was appraised by missions which visited India in
September/October 1975 and February 1976. A report entitled, "Appraisal
of the Bombay Urban Transport Project", dated October 12, 1976, is being
circulated separately. Negotiations were held in Washington from August 30,
to September 8, 1976. The Indian negotiating delegation was represented by
Messrs K.V. Seshadri, BMRDA, A. Pande, Department of Economic Affairs, GOI
and B.G. Deshmukh, BMC. A loan and project summary is given in Annex III.
Project Description
40.       The proposed project is designed to improve bus services in the
Greater Bombay area and to assist development planning and traffic manage-
ment activities of the Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority
(BMRDA). The bus services component would consist of:
-    improvement and expansion of BEST's bus fleet, through
procurement of 700 buses and related chassis components;
-    construction and equipping of three bus depots and a work-
shop, and the extension and re-equipping of three existing
depots and one workshop;
-    construction of 11 bus shelters/termini;
-    execution of traffic engineering schemes at about 40 locations;
-    provision of technical assistance to BEST in its review of
operations and management of bus services; and
-    provision of technical assistance to BMC in the execution of
traffic engineering measures.
41.       The development planning and management assistance component
would comprise aid to BMRDA in:
-    definition of an organizational development program, pre-
paration of management, accounting and finance procedures, and
a review of an organization and management program;



- 12 -
preparation of development planning and investment programming
procedures and project appraisal guidelines;
review of mass transport pricing and funding;
preparation of an initial traffic management program for the
region.
preparation of a regional investment plan; and
training of staff.
Project Implementation
42.        BMRDA, as the agency responsible for overall planning and develop-
ment of the Bombay Metropolitan Region, would be the Borrower of the Bank loan
and would exercise overall supervision and monitoring of the project through
a Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit to be established by December 31,
1976 (see Section 3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). With the exception of funds
for technical assistance to BMRDA, the proceeds of the loan would be onlent
to BMC and BEST for carrying out traffic improvement measures and enhancement
of bus capacity. The project would be implemented over three years.
Bombay Metropolitan Region Authority (BMRDA)
43.        BMRDA was established in 1975 by the Government of Maharashtra as a
statutory regional planning authority with power to develop sectoral plans and
policies, to direct local authorities in local development planning and to
control private and public development actions. BMRDA also has the powers of
a regional development finance agency and may raise tax revenues and loans to
finance projects.
44.       BMRDA is governed by an Authority of 46 members, of whom 34 are
elected by authorities specified under the BMRDA Act, the remainder being
officers of GOM, GOI and constituent local and public bodies. The BMRDA Act
provides for adequate decision-making capability to be delegated to the sub-
ordinate entities including a Standing Committee, Executive Committee, and
the Metropolitan Commissioner - the chief executive officer appointed by GOM.
45.       The proposed project would represent the first major developmental
activity for the BMRDA, and provide it with the opportunity to establish
itself as a viable institution. The project would provide a significant
amount of technical assistance support to BMRDA to help ensure that it
can effectively carry out its new responsibilities. Experts would be pro-
vided to assist BMRDA in organization and management development, in regional
development planning, traffic policy formulation and transport economics.
Consultants would also assist BMRDA to review earlier regional development



- 13 -
proposals and draw up a regional investment and funding plan. Assurances were
obtained that BMRDA would employ consultants with qualifications, experience
and terms of employment satisfactory to the Bank (see Section 3.02 of Loan
Agreement).
46.       BMRDA during the next 7-10 years, will rely on GOM budgetary support
for financing its operations, because it will not generate sufficient revenues
from its early operations to support the necessary research, planning, project
monitoring and financial staffs. BMRDA's principal source of revenues will be
from charges for services provided to authorities in the Bombay metropolitan
region and from loan charges made to borrowers including a 0.5% surcharge on
the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan relent to BMC and BEST. To ensure
fiscal strength and stability of BMRDA, assurances were obtained that GOM will
annually review and as necessary make available to BMRDA sufficient funds to
meet its obligations (see Section 2.01 of Maharashtra Agreement). BMRDA will
prepare: (i) annual budgets providing capital requirements for regional
development and for BMRDA internal operations; and (ii) a five-year or medium/
long term budgetary plan for regional investment. Assurances were obtained
that the BMRDA will annually provide the Bank with copies of all approved
budgets by May 31 of each year and that by September 30, 1977 BMRDA will
provide the Bank with a draft five year regional investment plan for 1977-78
to 1978-82 (see Section 4.04 of Loan Agreement).
Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Bombay Electric Supply and
Transportation Undertaking (BEST)
47.       The BMC, established under the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act
of 1888, is responsible for maintaining municipal services in Greater Bombay
including bus transport and electricity. The Municipal Commissioner,
appointed by the Government of Maharashtra, is the chief executive control-
ling all departments including the Roads Department, which is responsible
for traffic engineering and road works.
48.       BEST is an undertaking of BMC and is responsible for the operation
of bus transport services in Greater Bombay and the distribution of electri-
city in the Island City. BEST, under a General Manager and comprising a staff
of 24,000, operates with a considerable degree of autonomy.
Project Implementation by BEST
49.       BEST would execute the bus services improvement component of the
project. The Transport Division of BEST would be responsible for the procure-
ment of bus chassis, bus bodies, spare parts, ,and workshop/depot equipment
and tools through its Stores Department. Its Civil Engineering Department
would undertake land acquisition and supervision of civil works connected
with this aspect of the project. A special unit has been established in
BEST for monitoring and supervision of this project component.



- 14 -
50.       The project would provide BEST with 700 single and double deck
buses together with adequate spare main chassis components including engines
and gear boxes required for preventive maintenance. Some 433 or 62% of the
buses would replace overage units in BEST's present fleet and would reduce
operating costs and increase revenues. The remaining 267 buses would augment
the carrying capacity of BEST's present fleet by 16%.
51.       Three new depots and one new workshop would be constructed and
equipped and three existing depots and the single existing workshop would be
extended and re-equipped to relieve present overcrowding and to provide
adequate maintenance facilities for fleet additions. The project would
provide for construction of eleven sheltered bus stops/termini recessed from
the carriageway along high frequency bus routes. The improvements would
remove loading and unloading buses from the main traffic stream and provide
protection from the weather to bus passengers and to bus crews at terminal
points.
52.       The project would also provide for training BEST staff as well as
for twenty man-months of expert assistance in bus operations and financial
management to aid BEST in a review of its current practices including:
(a) preparation of service operations and development guidelines
based on present EiLan(idl and( operational targets for the
transport division;
(b) preparation of a modern management costing system for the
transport division;
(c) identification of immediate route and schedule changes
to increase service effectiveness and to extend minimum
services to new development areas; and
(d) a re-examination of BEST's routes, schedules and services
based on new passenger and travel data to become available
from a commuter survey by mid-1977 and improved costing
information.
Assurances were obtained that BMC would cause BEST to employ consultants with
qualifications, experience and terms of employment satisfactory to the Bank
(see Section 2.02 of Project Agreement). To direct these and related tasks
and to undertake a continuing operations and management review function, BEST
has established positions and appointed a Chief Development Adviser and four
other staff to form an Operations and Management Task Force under the Deputy
General Manager.



- 15 -
Project Implementation by BMC
53.       The traffic engineering component, including supervision of land
acquisition and resettlement, civil works construction, procurement of traffic
control equipment and its installation, would be the responsibility of BMC
and would be undertaken by BMC's Urban Transport Project Unit. The Traffic
Planning Division of BMC's Roads Department has completed detailed engineering
plans for traffic engineering works.
54.       Traffic engineering improvements are at locations along high fre-
quency bus routes where buses experience excessive delays and where pedestrian
movement is very heavy or particularly unsafe. The schemes include eight over-
passes, twelve intersection improvements, two street widenings/extensions, one
major bridge widening, two pedestrian bridges and five pedestrian tunnels.
55.       The project would provide for training of BMC's Roads Department
Staff as well as for twenty man-months of expert assistance in traffic engi-
neering to aid BMC in the programming of traffic signals to favor buses, to
develop project design and monitoring techniques, and to carry out area
surveys and project preparation.
Financial Objectives
56.       BMC, in accordance with the BMC Act, permits BEST to operate finan-
cially as a semi-autonomous undertaking. BMC exercises supervisory control
primarily through (i) approval of electricity rates and bus fares increases;
(ii) approval of annual budgets proposed by BEST; and (iii) the guidance of
the Municipal Commissioner who is appointed by GOM and is BMC's chief executive
officer. BMC has not established formal guidelines for the financial operation
of BEST, except those relating to disposal of surpluses (see para 57). BEST
has failed to provide for adequate funds for replacement or expansion. BEST
was not required to establish targets for electricity or transport services, or
any inter-divisional fiscal relationship. However, BEST gradually adopted a
de facto policy of providing capital resources for transport from electricity
surpluses on the basis that electricity consumers were more affluent than bus
transport users, and could assist the latter. This policy is reflected in the
fiscal situation disclosed during appraisal whereby transport had an operating
ratio of about 106 considerably in excess of 100, while electricity was about
90. 1/
57.       Under the project, a number of steps would be taken to improve
BEST's overall financial performance, in particular the performance of its
1/   Operating ratio is the percentage of operating costs to operating
revenue. Operating costs include depreciation, but exclude, taxes
or levies and appropriations.



- 16 -
transport division, and to ensure provision of adequate funds for replace-
ment and expansion of the bus fleet, and reduction in costs of operation to
minimize the need for rate and/or tariff revisions. Under the BMC Act, BEST
is to transfer annually US$0.5 million to the BMC general funds. This applies
even if BMC does not grant BEST fare or rate increases to provide adequate
surpluses. BMC may collect arrears of such transfer payments from BEST future
year's surpluses. This provision does not provide BEST with incentives for
efficient operation nor for generation of adequate surpluses for reinvestment.
Assurances were obtained that (i) BMC would review the operation of the BMC
Act in respect of the distribution of BEST surpluses to determine a system
likely to improve the efficiency of BEST operations and provide incentives for
generation of surpluses for reinvestment by BEST and by September 30, 1977
would consult with the Bank on their findings; (ii) BMC would not recover any
existing arrears of transfer payments if such action would leave BEST with
insufficient working capital; (iii) BMC would cause BEST from 1977/78 to
budget each year to meet any loss incurred by BEST in the previous year
including provision for at least the statutory minimum annual distribution of
surpluses to BMC; (iv) BMC would cause BEST to take such action including the
revision of rates and charges in order to meet the forecast expenditures of
BEST in the budget year and to recover any losses and/or shortfalls in surplus
distribution arising from the previous year's operations; and (v) BMC would
provide the Bank with a copy of the approved BEST budget for each fiscal year
by not later than May 31 of that year. (see Section 4.07 of the Project
Agreement).
58.        In order to provide more adequate cash flows for replacement and
expansion of the bus fleet and reduce the reliance on electricity cash gene-
ration, the transport division would need to move from the present operating
ratio of about 106 to about 100 by 1980-81. Assurances were obtained from
BMC that by 1980/81 BEST would budget annually for 100% recovery of transport
operating costs and depreciation by transport revenues, subject to studies to
be carried out to examine the capacity of bus users to meet full operating
costs and, to a review of bus fare structures. The studies are to be comple-
ted by the end of 1978. In the meantime, it was agreed that BEST would
continue to improve the operating and financial performance of its transport
operations and consult with the Bank on an annual basis to review operating
performance targets and progress with respect to the previous years targets
(see Section 4.05 of Project Agreement).
59.        In 1973-74, BEST recognized the inadequacy of its depreciation pro-
vision and began to provide 150% of the normal provision, based on unrevalued
assets. Although this provides in some cases, an adequate depreciation allow-
ance, it is an arbitrary figure, too high in some cases and too low in others.
It is preferable that assets should be revalued annually (indexed to accept-
able price indices) and the annual depreciation provided on the basis of
revised values. BMC gave assurances that it would review BEST depreciation
method and consult with the Bank before making changes (see Section 4.06 of
the Project Agreement).



- 17 -
60.       To achieve the objectives of reducing costs of operation and in-
creasing financial efficiency for BEST, improved techniques for establish-
ment of financial targets and expeditious and meaningful reporting are nec-
essary. Currently, fiscal planning does not have the importance afforded to
capital expenditure and operations planning by the operating divisions. To
improve fiscal planning, a statutory post of Chief Accounts Officer has been
created. BMC has undertaken that by loan effectiveness it would adopt a job
description for this post acceptable to the Bank (see Section 4.08(b) of
Project Agreement). Assurances were also obtained that BEST, as a part of the
activities of the Bus Operation and Management Task Force, will revise its
financial planning and costing procedures and will install and have fully
operational an improved costing system by April 1978 (see Section 4.08(a) of
Project Agreement). These improvements should provide improved and effective
financial planning, target setting and early rectification of adverse trends.
61.       BEST is expected to generate about 50% of its overall investment
requirements during the development period, and by the early 1980s, the
transport division would be generating about 50% of transport division in-
vestment requirements. Adequate debt service provision is made by use of a
sinking fund or by annual installment payments to lenders. BEST's debt/equity
ratio at the end of 1975-76 was 64:36 and will move to about 56:44 in 1980-81.
However, the present borrowing limit of BEST is defined in the BMC Act as
double the ratable value of premises in Greater Bombay assessable to property
tax. This ceiling would allow BEST to borrow up to about Rs 200 crores
(US$227 million) which is an unreasonable amount and does not encourage equity
formation through increase in revenue surpluses. In order to encourage the
latter, assurances were obtained that during the loan period for the project
BEST will maintain a debt service coverage ratio of 1.4 and its short-term
debt will not exceed 35% of its long-term debt (see Section 4.03 and 4.04 of
the Project Agreement). This should ensure that BEST continues the proposed
policy of financing an increasing portion of capital expenditures from internal
cash generation.
Project Cost and Financing
62.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$50.53 million
equivalent, including US$5.82 million foreign exchange costs and US$6.76 mil-
lion of duties and taxes. The provision for contingencies of US$9.08 million
covers a price contingency element of 18% and physical contingencies of 10%
on civil works with detailed engineering and 15% on civil works with pre-
liminary engineering. The proposed loan of US$25 million would finance about
57% of project costs net of duties and taxes, and covers the whole of the for-
eign exchange costs plus an estimated US$19 million of local costs most of
which would be for equipment to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding (see para 66). The remaining local costs would be pro-
vided by BMC and by BEST through internal funds and borrowings. Details of
cost estimates and financing are given in Annex III.



- 18 -
63.       The loan proceeds under the project would be applied as follows:
(a)  US$18.9 million  -  buses, bus spares and equipment including
civil works for BEST
(b)  US$5.7 million   -  equipment for road traffic improvements
including civil works for BMC
(c)  US$0.4 million   -   training and technical assistance for BMRDA
64.       Bank funds, with the exception of those for BMRDA technical assist-
ance, would be channeled through BMRDA to BMC and BEST. BMRDA would make
US$5.7 million equivalent of the Bank Loan proceeds available to BMC for
traffic engineering components of the project, repayable over 20 years,
including 4-1/2 years of grace at an interest rate of 9.2 percent. It would
also make available to BMC at the same rate of interest US$18.9 million
equivalent of the Loan proceeds for the benefit of BEST repayable over 15
years, including three years of grace.
65.       Up to US$200,000 of retroactive financing would be provided under
the project to cover the costs of a traffic consultant engaged by BEST pur-
suant to an appraisal mission recommendation, and to provide a contingency
a-gainst the possibility of some project-related civil works contract expendi-.
ture becoming necessary prior to the signing date. All tenders involved have
been approved by the Bank.
Procurement and Disbursement
66.       Bus bodies and bus chassis would be procured separately.    The bus
bodies (US$9.0 million) would be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding as they would need to conform in design and structure to the existing
fleet and have been supplied for a considerable number of years by several
Bombay manufacturers at very competitive prices. The types of bus bodies
required are of simple utilitarian design not commonly produced by foreign
manufacturers and it is not likely that foreign manufacturers would be prep-
ared to set up a special production line for the relatively small number of
body units required. For the same reasons, and also because of high ocean
transport costs, international competitive bidding for completely assembled
bus units (chassis and body) would not be practical. Bus bodies and bus
chassis would be assembled by the successful bidder for bus bodies.
67.       Bus chassis, chassis components and major workshop equipment
(totalling US$17.4 million) would be procured by BEST on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Domestic
suppliers would be accorded the usual preferential margin equal to 15% of the
c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the existing rate of import duty, which-
ever is lower.
68.       Supply contracts for minor depot equipment, tools and traffic con-
trol equipment (totalling US$0.7 million) would be advertised locally under
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. It is unlikely that foreign



- 19 -
manufacturers would be prepared to establish service facilities for this
limited amount of equipment when a number of local firms already offer the
items at competitive prices.
69.       Civil works contracts for construction of depots, workshops, bus
shelters/terminal and traffic engineering works (totalling US$19.0 million),
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. There would be about 50
individual contracts in all, of which two are expected to be in the region of
US$1 to 2 million, with the bulk of contracts below US$100,000. Contracts in
the same area will be combined as far as practical. However, it would not be
feasible to bulk on a scale that would attract international contractors,
particularly as there would be frequent interruptions and delays in the work
due to the need for staggered work schedules, balanced locationally and over
time to minimize traffic disruptions.
70.       The loan would be disbursed on the basis of 100% of the c.i.f. costs
of imported equipment and materials or the ex-factory costs of goods and
equipment procured from local manufacturers after international competitive
bidding, 100% of the costs of consulting services and training, and 50% of the
costs of civil works and all other equipment and materials. The loan is ex-
pected to be disbursed over a period of three years.
Economic Benefits and Risks
71.       The proposed bus service improvements would help to remedy the
major inadequacies of the Greater Bombay Area public transport system and
would support efforts to make better use of existing transport resources,
while longer term transport options are being investigated.
72.       The major direct beneficiaries would be Greater Bombay bus
commuters. This group, composed mainly of low- and middle-income earners,
would benefit substantially by the provision of improved and expanded
services. The traffic engineering improvements and reduction of traffic
congestion would also benefit other road transport users including taxis,
private cars, commercial vehicles and pedestrians.
73.       An economic evaluation of the major subcomponents of bus service
improvements indicates that:
(a)  replacement of over-age buses (US$15.5 million) would yield
an economic rate of return of 40% by reducing operating costs
of BEST's bus fleet and increasing service availability and
use of buses;
(b) augmentation of the bus fleet and supporting facilities
(US$19.5 million) would yield an economic rate of return
of 27% by increasing service availability and use of buses;



- 20 -
(c) traffic circulation improvements of high-frequency bus routes
(US$12.1 million) would yield a 24% economic rate of return by
reducing operating costs of vehicles and of passenger travel
by buses and other vehicles and increasing availability and
use of buses.
The overall economic return of the bus services improvements would be about 28%.
74.       The main risk to the project is whether the BMRDA, a new institution,
can successfully assume a meaningful and effective development and planning
role in the Bombay. metropolitan region. Other institutions, such as BMC,
which have traditionally been independently responsible for development of
their own sub-sectors and prone to overambitious investment planning, may well
resist cooperation under the authority of BMRDA. This potential difficulty
has been recognized by the State Government and measures have been taken to
ensure that BMRDA can carry out its functions effectively. The BMRDA has been
given strong political support, and the Act has been drawn up to provide for
representation from government and local agencies and to give it adequate
authority over planning and regional development. During project prep-
aration, steps were taken to remedy weaknesses in the Act. The functional
relationships between the Standing Committee, Executive Committee and the
Metropolitan Commissioner were more clearly defined and stronger financial
controls were included in the Act. In practice, BMRDA's success may well
depend on its ability to sponsor innovative and cost effective projects which
are attractive to individual sponsoring agencies and improve their standards
and practices. In this context, the proposed project to improve bus services
in Bombay is a suitable vehicle for initial BMRDA involvement in the urban
transport sector.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bombay Metropolitan Region
Development Authority and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the
Bank and the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay, the draft Maharashtra
Agreement between the Bank and the Government of the State of Maharashtra,
the draft Guarantee Agreement between India and the Bank, the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed loan
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
76. Provisions of these draft agreements of particular interest are des-
cribed in paragraphs 45, 46, 58, 60, and 61 of this Report.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Date: October 13, 1976






ANNEXl I
Page 1
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 sod 1961, for 1950 bten1968 and 1970, and for most Recent Estimiate between
1973 and 1975.
E rasil be. been asiecred because. of its nice end comparable problees, of regional lnesquaIlty.
INDIA                 19ff    Is   1951-61   -rerag,   lb   1951-60,   /c   ga.tis ci popolatien under 15 sdf and      ovei -r to lehor force afed 15-59;   /d  1964;
T.'? grgistered applicants foe work,          7f  1962;   LA   To-lediog nidolna, beth anr    nssd oidwiven registered, nut all practtcinf
in the country;     /b  1957,    /i  1960-62,    /i. 6-13 and 14-19 years of age respeetoely,        Lb  Households.
1970     Is  1967-68;    /b  5-10 yer- ci age,      Ic  1967.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:      /a   1972,   /b   1971;   /c  Ratio of Population under 15 and bland over to labor forte aged 15-59,
7-? Natioccal prefran onl1y;    /e  AID  atitfes  of labor force in age group 15-59.    IEED report given a fifate
of iRiS4 million based on7the 1971 populstion cnu.         The differese    1a due to changes in the definition
of a worhec.   In the 1971 census, persona were clsasified only on the hasie of their aem        activitic..
Thin led to the aecolusion of several categories, soch as boucewives;        If  Registered applicants for work,
Ia..loidiog midwives      lb  1969-71 average,     /i  Population 15 years and ovor;      /J iHousebolds.
INDONESIA             1970    Is   1961-71;    /b  1971.
PHILIFPPIPS           1910    I    As percentage of eponiynan t;    lb   7-12 and 13-li years of age respectively,      Ic  Net including private -o-tionsi orbuols
or voctional sbart tern coarsen;       Id  1967, househoids;     /a  Isside only.
BRAZIL                sf70    IsE-aonical1y active population,          /b  f9oapitt1 p-rssnel      /a  12-18 years of as.,     /d  Inside only.
R9, July 21, 1976
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thn ban2)                                                                 Population per narsing cerorne  - Population divided by nunber of practicing
Total -Total surface conprau-u      leaJ ,l A  -nd blan.d waters                        -le sod fensle graduate corona, 1trained` or 'certified'       ams     end
Attic, -Moat recent esti-ate of agricultural are.a usd tenporarily or                  auxiliary personnel with training or nesperi.n-e
permaently foe ot-pa, pastures, ocatcet & kitchen gardeno on to lie               Peoultin per hospital hod - Populatsion divided by cusahe       of h-spitai heds
fallow.                                                                               -oilakle in public sod peiv-to general and opecialiend hospital and
rehabilitation centers, occludes nursing bunco and establishments for
ON? par cjapita (11157 - GiNP per capita estimates an durrest market prices.            cmatadisl and preventive care.
calculated by san    canners ion oethsd as World Each Atlas f1973-75              Per e"Pitsapy of calories CC of recuir uete) - Compputed fron energy
bacia); 1960, 1970 and 1075 data.                                                   equivaisot of met food sopplies avtsl           in  outry per unpita per day,
avaclable supplies comprise danastic pruoe~tlon. imports less ecporcs,
Population, and vital statistics                                                       and changes in stoch, nat supplies             anldseimal feed, sneds, quacti-
Ptculation (.id-yr.   Ilit") - As of July first:      if not available,                 ties used in food processnig and losses In distribution; requirements
averge of two end-year estimates, 1960, 1970 and 1975 dare.                         were estimated blay FAiO based on physiological needs for nornal activity
end health considerin eneironen-tal tempererure, body seights, age end
Population density - coo 55a      Ia - Mid-year population. per squnre kilt-           seedistributions of population, sod allowing 107. for waste at house-
,eter (ISO hetteras    citoa     ares,                                              bold level.
,Poacltln density - cot      -rus   inn of afric. leand - Computed as skeet for      Pat capita sorely of protein lar~ ascar day) - Protein con tet of Per
agricoltural land only.                                                             capita net supply ci feed per day; net supply of food in defined as
above; requiremnets for eli countries established lay USDA Ec-onoir
Vital statistics                                                                        R.eserch Services provide for a minimum allowenee of 60 groins of total
Crude birth rate nor thos-and - Annual li-e births per thousand of cid-                 protein per dey, and 20 groin   of animal and puma. protein, of which
ycar population; ceo-year arithmetic averages ending is 1960 end 1970,              1i gra-   should ha aniual peotein; these standards se     lowr than those
and fine -year ave rage ending in 1975 fcr mast recent estinate.                    af 75 grams of total protein sod 23 grantc of animal precrin as so
Crude death rtnothuad- Asarwal deaths per rhousand of mid-year                           -OOtge for the world, proposed byPFAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Ppuapition; tom-year arithme.tic avrages ending in 1960 sand 1907, and            Pri caiauena,9f~.Lfro eSlja0.g                   e-protein sopply of food
fir-year average ending in 1975 for meat recent estima,te.                          deia      rt   nml      n     .sea in gasptdY.
miami. motalty1ratet f/thou) - Abnnas     deaths of infants unde    one yeac of      Deott rats f/thou) acn    1-4 - Actua   deaths per thousend in age group
ag te housand lire births.                                                      1-   ears, to chiidren in this age group; suggeeted as an indicator of
Lifa epeota'nc  at birth lyre   -AVerage comber of years of life retaining            malnutrition,
st hitch; usueliy fire-year tyrrago     ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 far
developing countries. d,to
'Gcons reproduction rats _-Auec    e number of live daughters a woman will            Ad!ted    nroll.eet ratio - Primary school - Enrrllment of aliS. eg      s 5
boar in her carnal repod-cti-e period if she experiences present age-               percentage of primary eth,0e1-age population; incisdes children aged
apsuific fertility rates; usually five-year av       gerse  ending is 1960,          6-il1 years hat adjusted far different length. of primary adaca.tioc,
197i and 1979 f.r d-reloping countries.                                              far cuntnrine sath uci-ar-t    aduca.cion, enrollmnst may ...c.d 1007,
Peuat   - goth rmtn M%  - total - Conpoed annual growth rates of mid-             since .mar pupils are boi1o or above the official school age.
yea   Poplation far 1950-if, i960-70 and 1970-75.                                 Adjusted enrollent ratio - secondary scheol - Computed as shws,
Panslario  g1rowth race 1%) - orha. - Computed like growth rate of rtota                secondary education requires at least four years of approved primary
population ; different definitions of urhan areas nay affect conpear-                 instruction; provides general, v-cetional at teaher training
bilty   ofd dat  amog countrien.                                                     instructibons foax pupils of 12 to 17 years nf age; correspondence
Urban ecoiaio     C.   f otl)- Ratio of urban to total ppultrion,                       couarse  are generelly omeloded.
different deiiin         fuban areas nay affect canp-brlitiy of data              Years of a   ealin   poie      (frtnd e_ound levels) - Tatal yeases of
oog truties.     -   hidenehoeling; an secondary level, eato                                                            na   sercion nay be Par
Am  "strutoedeeni(-1                        arl     ohn-ae(56            er)          tially or co,npletely nooladed.
und4netired (hI years end oven) as Percentages of mid-yenr Popolation.            vostosal enolmn         C   I af seodr)-Vntoa             ntttiom
Ag .eeteCy ratio - Ratio of population onder 15 nod 65 end over tsicud                     ehncl       indsra      rehrparn            he     prc
chose of ages 1    chroagh 64.                                                       indapendently or as departments of secondary institutions.
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and i5 sod -aer              Adult literacy mrst CZ) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
to the laker farce in age group 15-64 yera                                          percentage of total adult Population aged 15 years and over,
Psin"Y plas-ii      sceentocs (coumlati-t.houh      Cw-sltiv- num,ber of
acce ptors of birth-control devices   -nder auspices of neinlfacily               None951A9
Planning programa since inception.                                                Persons ret_roa   levrag) - A-erage ecamber of persons per root in
Family pann        users ft of nettld wo      l-Perceotsges of married                  occupied cnetoa         dwellings in erkan areas; dwellings encl.ea
women of child-hearing age (15-44 yer) who none birth-control devices                nan-pertanent structures and anoncupind parts.
to all married women in same aeg grasp.                                           Occupied dwellings without piped w-ter (7,) - Occupied c..nventione1
dweltings in urban und rural sreen witheot ins ide or outside Piped
Enolces-nt                                                                              water fanlitiiesa    prcentage of nil occupied dwellings.
Total labor facE.hued)-Sonenlally ective persona, including                           Aces         o nierco   2o    all dwllng)       - C  entionnI dwellingS
armed farces and ammploeyd hut ...luding hounewives, students, rtc.;                  With electricity in living quarters an p erent of tatal. dwellings in
definitions is various Countries are not canperabie.                                 urban sod rurciarl   n
Lakor farce in airiculture 1%) - Agricultural labor force lit farming,                Rural dweIllg    connected on electricity    %   - Conputed as above for
feresr,hunring and fishing) as p-c-ncege of total laker farce,                      ruralI dwellings only.
llnonclrvt     o   aerfre          - Ueployed are usually defined as per.son
who are abeadwligc             aeajob, out of a job on a givee day,               Consumption
retained set of a lob, anod coo king work for a specified mcinimum period         Radio receivrer feet thou pep) - All types of receivers for radia broad-
not enceeding one weal; may net be comperekla between ...uorries dun to              casts to general publtc par thonased of population; encledee
dififetrent definitions of unemployed sod source of data, e.g., eplo-                unlicensed receivers in coutries and in years whee regiatretion of
meet olfite stntinoirs, sample surveys, compulsory c.eneplaystet inserance           radio setows    in  filect,  ar  for recent years may nut be comparable
since most coentries abolished licensing.
Incmom  distribution - Percentage of private iocom     (both in cash and kind)        passenger ears (net thou asp) - Pa....nger cars comprIse motor cars
receivd by richest 5%, richeot 207,, pecrest 20%, and poorest 40%. of                seating less than eightt persona; eseludne ambulances, hearses and
hoosehelds.                                                                          military vehicles.
Electricity1khy       per~ tsp) - Annual consumption, of indsctrtsl, nn
DIotribucion cf lbed owneship - Percentages of lord mood by weelthi-st                  taca,pblic and Private electricity in hilowti hours per capita,
liZ  and poorest 10% of land acnr.ga..erally based on prod-ctiun data, airhout allownce for                                                          ...se. io
grids hut allowinrg for)imports end eaports of electricity.
Healith sod nutrition                                                                 gewpriat (kelyrrtto         - Per capita annual consonptia     in holograms
Population Per physpician - Population divided ky number of practicing                  estimated from  domestic production plt net impertt      of ne-spoint.
physicians qualified from a nedioal achoel at university level,



ANNEX I
Page2
LAN  AREATUUKM-- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANC  AREA  IrHO0u  KM2- -----------------------------------                      -----
---------------                                INDIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TUTAL     32B0.5                                     MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     1781.1                     [960      1510   ESTIMATE         INDONESIA     PHILIPPINES    BRAZIL**
GNP PER CAPITA (US$'                     70.0      110.0      150.0              110.0      230.0      540.0
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLIONI          429.0       542.7     609.6             115.6       36.9        92.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      131.0      165.0      186.0              61.0      123.0        11.0
PER SC. KM. AGRICULTURAL LANO       245.0      290.0      319.0 /a          405.0       279.0       66.o
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND        43.2      4'2.7       39.9              45.9       44.2        38.4
CRUCE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND        23.9       1a.8       15.7              20.6        13.2        9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       139.0 /a      ..   120-140.0 /b            ..       80.0       110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YASI       41.7       47.2       49.5              45.0        55.6       59.7
GRCSS REPRODUCT ION RATE              3.2        2.9        2.8                3.2        3.3        2.6
POPULATICN GORWTH RATE (8)
TOTAL                                 1.8        2.4        2.4               2.0        3.0         2.9
URBAN                                 2.5 /b     3.2        3.1               3.7 /a     4.0         5.0
URBAN POPULATION t4 OF TOTAL)          17.9        19.8      20.6              17.0 /b     27.6       56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.0       Li.6       40.1              44. o       45.6       42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.9       55.3       56.7              53.5        51.6       55.0
65 YEARS ANC OVER                     3.1        3.1        3.2               2.5         2.8        3.0
AGE OEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8        0.8        0.8               0.9         0.9        0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENCENCY RATIO               1.3 /c      *-        i.2 /b.c           ..         1.5        1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS ICUMULATIVE, THOUI       1000.0 /d  11308.0    26566.0            259.3      354.0       250.0
USERS (' OF MARRIEO WOMEN)             ..         ..       15.8 /d             ..         2.0        1.6
ErPLcYMENT
TOTAL LABOa FORCE (THOUSANO)       189000.0         ..    221000.0 /b e           ..    12300.0    29600.0
LABCR FORCE IN ACRICULTURE (12         73.0         ..       72.0 7'              ..       55.0 /a    44.0
UNEMPLOYED (1 UF LABOh FORCEi           1.0 e       ..        2.0 C7             ..         7.0
INCCME OISTRIBUTION
2 OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5X OF HoUSEHOLDS            26.7       25.0 5       ..                ..          ..       35.0/a
HIGHEST 204 OF HOUSEHOLDS            51.7       53.1/a       ..                ..          ..       62.
LOWEST  202 OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.1        4.7 77      ..                ..         ..         3.0/a
LOWEST  404 OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.6       13.1 _1      ..                ..         ..        l.oo7a
DISTPIBUTION Of LAND OWNERSHIP
I OwNEL .y TUP 10Z CF OWNERS             ..         ..         ..                ..          ..       45.0
2 OWNED BY SMALLEST lO DaNERS           ..         ..         ..                 ..         ..        1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PEP PHYSICIAN             5800.0 /f  4800.0     14620.0          2 27650.0       ..      1950.0
POPULATION PER NURSIhG PERSON       52VO.0 If,g 5110.0     4260.0 a.        8010.0          .      3300.0/b
PCPULATICN PER HOSPITAL BEC          2600.0 7   17 1620.0      ,,            1720.0       850.0      260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)         95.0       93.0        94.0 lh          89.0       100.0      109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAYI              55.0       53.0       52.0 7            43.0       45.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0/i     16.0         ..               14.0       22.0       39.0
DEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4            44.0         ..         ..                ..         9.0
EDUCATION
AOJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       38.0 I     68.0 b     79.0 /b           69.0       108.0 lb    87.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      9.0 :0      ..       28.0 7-           12.0        48.0 7b    28.0 c
YEARS OF SCHCCLING PROVIDEC
(FIRSI AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0                         12.0        10.0       13.0
VCCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(8 OF SECCNDARY)                      8.0        6.0 Li      **              29.0         6.0 /c    17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%I                24.C       33.0       3.0 /b.i            ..         ..        68.0
hOLSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)              2.blk       ..        2                  ..         ..         1.0
COYUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER  1                         ..         ..         ..                ..       66.0 /de    73.0 /d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(2 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  ..          ..         ..                ..       23.0 /d    48.0
-RAt LWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (8                     ..          . .        ..                ..        6.0 /d      8.0
CCNSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          5.0       21.0       23.0/a            114.0       45.0       60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU PCP)           0.7        L.0        I.O/a             2.0         8.0       25.0
ELECTRICITY tK,lHtYR PEfR CAPI         4o.0      114.0      129.0              20.0      235.0        491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.2        0.3        0.3                0.2        1.2 If     2.7
SEE----------NOTES-------------AN----------D-----FINITI---------------_NS----__----------REV---------RSE------
SEE NOTES AND CEFINITICNS CN REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 3
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1973 a US$120
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974/75 /                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, conBtant prices)
USS Bln.       j                               1961/62-1964/65    1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1973/74
GNP at Market Prices              87.4       100.0                                   3.4                3.7                1.9
Gross Domestic Investment         14.8        16.9
Gross National Saving             12.8        14.6
Current Account Balance           -2.0        -2.3
Resource Gap                      -1.8        -2.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)         Labor Force          V.A. Per Worker
Us3 Bln,               %             Min.                 ES         fNtoa       vrg
Agriculture                       24.5                46.6            130.0   72.1         188             64
Industry                          11.8                22.3             20.2   11.2         582            199
Services                          16.3                3.1              30.2   16.7         542            t86
Total/average                     52.6               100.0            180.4  100.0         292            100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                            d
General Government                          Central Government
(R. Bln)                  G                          Bn                 of GDP
1974/75        1974/75   1972/73-1974/75        1974/75        1974/75   1972/73-1974/75
Current Receipts                  107.63          15.4         15.7                64.02           9.1          9.2
Current Expenditures               98.9           14.2         1S.2                57.78           8.2          8.7
Current Surplus/Deficit             8.64           1.2          0-5                 6.24           0.9          0-5
Capital Expenditures  -/           40.40           5-8          5-4                30.17           4.3          4.1
External Assistanoe (net)          10.17           1.4          1.0                10.17           1.4          1.0
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                1965/66    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1971/74    1974/75    August 1974    August 1975
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and 6uasi Money                     41.4      105.7      122.4      142.2      169.1      187.4       176.8           198.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector              40.8       56.9       69.o       82.5       92.9      102.0        98.8          115.3
Bank Credit to Private Seotor             28.1       56-7       64.4       76.o       90.1      100.5        90.0           104.7
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                    January 1975   Januazy 1976
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         24.0       24.4       26.3       27-9       27.2       25-5
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                      131.6      181.1      188.4      207.1      254.2      313.0       316.0          290.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                      7.7        5-5        4.0        9.9       22.7       23.1                       -8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector              12.9        8.6       21.3       19.6       12.6        9.8                        4.8 V/
Bank Credit to Private Sector             12.8       17.4       13.6       18.0       18.5       11.5                       22.9 g/
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1973 market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the 1975
World Atlas.  All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
/ Quiok Estimates.
i/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
v Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
e/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
L Credit to Government.
i Credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1972/73     1973/74     1974/75     1975/76 h/             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS(AVERAGE 1972/73-1974/75)
(US$ Million)                                                    US$ Mln.        %
Exports of Goods                   2,558       3,239       4,143       4,550                 Jute Manufacturers      329          10
Imports of Goods                  -2,682      -3,971      -5,739      -5,800                 Tea                     220           7
Trade Balanye                     -  124      - 732       -1,596      -1,250                  Cotton Textiles k-     217           7
NFS (net)                         -  146        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.                  Iron Ore               171           5
Engineering Goods       295           9
Resource Gap                      - 270         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.                 Others                2,01           63
Total                3,313          100
Interest Payments (net)           - 237       -  233      -  260      - 261
Other Factor Payments (net) A     _    8        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Net Transfers .7                      50        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Balance on Current Account        - 565         n.a.        n.a.        n.a.                 EXTERNAL DEBT. MARCH 31, 1975
Official Aid                                                                                                                    US$ Mln.
Disbursements                   955        1,249       1,766       2,210                 Repayable in foreign currency       11,167
Amortization                    -445        -459        -519        -522                  Repayable through export of goods     738
Transactions with IMF                             75         530         205                  Total Outstanding and Disbursed    11,905
All Other Items                       89         205          41         426
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975/76       17.2 percent _1
Increase in Reserves (-)            - 34        -105          38        -806
Gross Reserves (end year)          1,311       1,416       1,378       2,186
Net Reserves (end year)            1,311       1,341         773       1,349                 IBRD/tIDA LENDING, December 31, 1975  (US$ Mln.)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                   IBRD     IDA
Imports                              265         720       1,451       1,450                 Outstanding and Disbursed        445    2,827
of which: Petroleum                265         719       1,451       1,450                 Undisbursed                      284    1,157
outstanding including            729    3,984
Exports                               41          20          26        n.a.                   Undisbursed
of which: Petroleum                 37          16          17        n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE 1/
Prior to mid-December 1971    :   US$1.00 - Rs 7.5                                            After end June 1972   :   Floating Rate
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333                                       Spot Rate December 31, 1975
Mid-December 1971 to          :   US$1.00 = Rs 7.27927                                                      approx. US$1.00 = Re 8.937
end June 1972                   Rs 1.00 = US$0.137376                                                     approx. Rs 1.00 = us$ 0.112
h/ Estimated,
i/ For 1973/74 to 1975/76, included with 'All other Items'.
4/ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange rates and IMF trade conversion factors as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
1'/ Excluding garments.
1/ Amortization and interest payments (excluding IMF transactions) as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of August 31, 1976)
Loan or                                                                  US $ Million -/
Credit No.    Year    Borrower           Purpose                      (Net of Cancellation)
BANK       IDA   Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                        1,032.5
37 Credits fully disbursed                                                 2,081.9
614-IN        1969     India   Tarai Seeds                         13.0       -        6.8
176-IN        19F0     India   Kadana Irrigation                    -        35.0      0.1
203-IN        1970     India   Punjab Agricultural Credit           -        27.5     13.2
226-IN        1971     India   Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Cr.      -        24.4      4.0
242-IN        1971     India   Power Transmission II                -        75.0     25.2
249-IN        1971     India   Haryana Agricultural Credit          -        25.0      3.2
250-IN        1971     India   Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit       -        35.0      7.3
264-IN        1971     India   Cochin II Fertilizer                 -        20.0      1.5
267-IN        1971     India   Wheat Storage                        -         5.0      3.8
268-IN        1971     India   Pochampad Irrigation                 -        39.0      0.6
789-IN        1971     ICICI   Industry DFC IX                     60.0       -        2.9
278-IN        1972     India   Mysore Agricultural Credit           -        40.0      9.8
294-IN        1972     India   Bihar Agricultural Markets           -        14.0     11.8
312-IN        1972     India   Population                           -        21.2     11.4
342-IN        1972     India   Education                            -        12.0     11.6
356-IN        1972     India   IDBI                                 -        25.0     16.8
357-IN        1973     India   Nangal Fertilizer Expansion          -        58.0      0.5
377-IN        1973     India   Power Transmission III               -        85.0     58.0
378-IN        1973     India   Mysore Agricultural Markets          -         8.0      7.8
902-IN        1973     ICICI   Industry DFC X                      70.0       -       12.3
390-IN        1973     India   Bombay Water Supply                  -        55.0     44.0
391-IN        1973     India   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Cr.      -        33.0      9.7
392-IN        1973     India   Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Cr.       -        38.0     19.3
403-IN        1973     India   Telecommunications V                 -        80.0     31.2
427-IN        1973     India   Calcutta Urban Development           -        35.0     19.6
440-IN        1973     India   Bihar Agricultural Credit            -        32.0     20.9
456-IN        1974     India   HP Apple Processing & Marketing      -        13.0     11.7
481-IN        1974     India   Trombay IV                           -        50.0     35.4
1011-IN        1974     India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD             52.0       -       42.4
482-IN        1974     India   Karnataka Dairy                      -        30.0     30.0
502-IN        1974     India   Rajasthan Canal CAD                  -        83.0     59.9
520-IN        1974     India   Sindri Fertilizer                    -        91.0     73.9
521-IN        1974     India   Rajasthan Dairy                      -        27.7     27.6
522-IN        1974     India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy                 -        16.4     16.4
526-IN        1975     India   Drought Prone Areas                  -        35.0     33.3
1079-IN        1975     India   IFFCO Fertilizer                   109.0       -      105.0
1097-IN        1975     India   Industry DFC XI                    100.0       -       85.4
532-IN        1975     India   Godavari Barrage Irrigation          -        45.0     39.0
540-IN        1975     India   ARC Credit                           -        75.0     54.4
541-IN        1975     India   West Bengal Agrc. Dev.               -        34.0     34.0
562-IN        1975     India   Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD         -        24.0     23.1
572-IN        1975     India   Rural Electrification                -        57.0     57.0
582-IN        1975     India   Railways XIII                        -       110.0     64.5
585-IN        1975     India   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply           -        40.0     40.0
598-IN        1975     India   Fertilizer Industry                  -       105.0    104.1
604-IN        1975     India   Power Transmission IV                -       150.0*   150.0
609-IN        1975     India   Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.         -         4.0      4.0
610-IN        1976     India   Integrated Cotton Development        -        18.0*    18.0
616-IN        1976     India   Industrial Imports XI                -       200.0    116.0
1251-IN(TW)    1976     India   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation          145.0*      -      145.0
1260-IN        1976     India   IDBI II                             40.0       -       40.0
1273-IN        1976     India   National Seed                       25.0*      -       25.0
1313-IN        1976     India   Tilecommunications VI               80.0*      -       80.0
Total                                                           1,726.5   4,112.1
of which has been repaid                                    752.3      20.3
Total now outstanding                                             974.2   4,091.8
Amount sold                             111.5
of which has been repaid         111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                    974.2   4,091.8
Total undisbursed (including *)                                   544.8   1,155.7  1,700.5
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of August 31, 1976)
Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                             Loan      Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5        -        1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9        -        0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4        -        1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2        -        0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.7       0.3       1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8       1.0      12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                1.0      0.3       1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                   1.0      0.1       1.1
1967       Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                15.1      3.8      18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                          6.6        -        6.6
TOTAL                            49.6      8.8       58.4
Less:   Sold                             6.0       1.6       7.6
Repaid                           11.2       -        11.2
Cancelled                         6.2      0.7        6.9
Now Held                         26.3      6.4       32.7
Undisbursed                      12.6       -        12.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$480.3 million in FY75 or 57%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,700.5 million as of August 31, 1976, corresponds roughly to
commitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 789     Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Effective
Date: December 20, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Ln. No. 902     Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097    Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loans 789-IN and 902-IN are
fully committed and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan
1097-IN. Disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1976
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
is well under way.   Delivery of some equipment in damaged conditions, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has pushed delivery
schedules to March 1977, a few months beyond the present closing date and
an extension has been requested by GOI and is under consideration.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Cr. No. 176    Kadana Irrigation Project; US$35.0 million credit of
February 9, 1970; Effective Date: July 29, 1970; Closing
Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam.
The project also includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drain-
age works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development. The
project will be completed in July 1977 about two years behind schedule be-
cause of delays in dam construction. The agricultural components of the
project are also behind schedule. Some of the delays in implementation
occurred at the start of the project before major investments were made.
These will not affect the economic justification of the project. The
credit is expected to be closed on schedule.
Cr. No. 268    Pochampad Irrigation Project; US$39.0 million credit of
August 23, 1971; Effective Date: November 15, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the agricultural development on the right
bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to some 100,000
ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-lined main
canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads. Until mid-
1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with construction
and disbursements from the IDA credit progressing ahead of schedule. For
two years, acute shortages of construction materials, especially explosives
for the canal excavation, and technical difficulties with the lining of the
main canal hampered progress. As a result, construction of the main canal
has fallen about one year behind schedule, which is likely to delay the
introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area. Since early
1975, all material shortages have been removed and progress has been satis-
factory. Construction of the dam is ahead of schedule. Land development,
however, is haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water availability
in the project area. The Pochampad component of the proposed Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation and Command Area Development Composite Project is designed to
remedy this inadequacy.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Cr. No. 532     Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Tendering for the supply of equipment is under way. The contract
for civil works was recently awarded after international competitive bid-
ding.
Cr. No. 203     Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249     Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 278     Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 391     Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392     Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 440     Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540     Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly.     Tractor
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267     Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The Food Corporation of India is making satisfactory progress
in the execution of this project. Piling and foundation work is nearly com-
pleted. Silo construction should start before the end of this calendar year
and be completed in about nine months. Staff training is behind schedule,
and FCI has been requested to expedite this activity.
Cr. No. 456     Himachal Pradesh Apple Processng and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. A June 1975 review mission recommended actions to
bring the project in line with managerial and technical capabilities and to
incorporate consultants' recommendations for modifying the cold storage
component. A recent review mission found a satisfactory improvement in the
prospects for successful project implementation.
Cr. No. 403     Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Material supply problems which delayed the start of this project have
been resolved and physical achievements were at record levels during fiscal
year 1976. However, to cover the delivery and installation of imported trans-
mission and switching equipment, the closing date was extended by one year to
December 31, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II Project; US$75.0 million credit of
May 3, 1971; Effective Date: July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipment and materials required to develop a power transmission program
in nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred
because of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for
international bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids
involved, but all contract awards have now been made. For Power Transmission
III, virtually all equipment has now been ordered; there are likely to be
substantial cost overruns, a portion of which is being met through Power
Transmission IV.
Cr. No. 264     Cochin II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 357    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$58.0 million credit
of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: May 11, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520     Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is undergoing precommissioning tests
and is expected to be commissioned in October/November 1976, about 31 months



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
behind the appraisal estimate. The delays in implementation have been mainly
due to engineering work, procurement and site construction for the Nangal
Fertilizer Project are proceeding satisfactorily, but the project faces
substantial cost over-runs due to increases in equipment prices. Progress on
the Trombay IV project has been good although project completion may be
delayed by about four months because of longer than expected delivery times
for critical equipment. Engineering design and procurement for the Sindri
project are proceeding on schedule. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a
year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays
in completion of engineering contracts. These delays have now been overcome,
and satisfactory progress is being made. Site work has begun, process- and
time-critical equipment is being ordered, and engineering work is well under
way. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity; implementation is now underway.
Cr. No. 294     Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378     Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the projects has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved and construction of the first ten markets is well advanced.
Six markets are expected to open for business by mid June 1976. Two market
yards have been completed and are in operation; more will be in operation
by mid-1977. Progress under the Karnataka project is much less satisfactory,
however, largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design and con-
struction. These problems and remedial actions have been brought to the at-
tention of the State and Central Government. The project is being monitored
closely to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implementation.
Cr. No. 312     Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date:   May 9, 1973; Closing Date:   June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project implementation has improved with satisfactory progress
on civil works, preparation of equipment lists, bid documents, fellowship
programs and university development plans. The rate of disbursement has
been slow, partly due to previous delays in the selection of key personnel
and in the preparation of equipment lists, but is expected to improve in
line with progressing construction and equipment procurement.
Cr. No. 356     Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due,
to institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations
(SFCs). However, there is now evidence of improvement in the utilization of
this credit. Commitments are virtually completed. In order to provide
continuity in the Bank Group's involvement with small and medium scale
industry, a second line of credit is being prepared, which would cover the
expected foreign exchange requirement of SFC sponsored small and medium scale
industrial projects for the two year period beginning on July 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain components of the project. Action has been
taken to redefine and rephase the project construction to fit the financing
available from the Credit, local loans and bonds and internal cash genera-
tion of the project entity. The revised cost estimate for the implementation
period 1975/76 to 1979/80 amounts to US$266 million dollar equivalent exclud-
ing interest during construction. GOI has confirmed the revised project
description and is expected to confirm the project costs and financing plan
shortly. Meanwhile project construction is proceeding and most major con-
tracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been awarded. Disburse-
ments should therefore be faster in FY1977 than in preceding years. Finan-
cial performance of the project entity during 1974/75 was satisfactory, but
major rate increases have been instituted in April 1976, to ensure con-
tinuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Cr. No. 427     Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 482     Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521     Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522     Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. Progress on the Karnataka project has been
slow, partly because of inadequate staffing of the Karnataka Dairy Development
Corporation (KDDC) and partly due to poor project management. Under the new
managing director, appointed recently, improvement in implementation along
an agreed plan has begun. Close supervision is being maintained. On the
other hand, progress under the Madhya Pradesh project is good. About 50
new dairy cooperative societies have been established. Detailed design
studies for plant construction are complete. Technical services investments
are being made. Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The
Rajasthan project is also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed
and excellent progress has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly
350 dairy cooperatives at the village level. Plant-designs are ready, and
procurement is to start soon. KDDC decision to procure plant equipment
jointly with RDDC and MPDDC on the same tender would lead to a recovery of
considerable time lost earlier.
Ln. No. 1011    Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502     Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily. In par-
ticular, agricultural extension has made remarkable progress.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
The project has continued to make satisfactory progress. In par-
ticular, the pace of dairy and sheep development and, to a lesser extent,
dry farming, have improved. An encouraging start has been made with credit
planning, with commercial banks well integrated into credit activity. Also
encouraging are signs that IDA involvement in DPAP is having a beneficial
effect on the type and quality of programs in non-IDA DPAP districts.
Cr. No. 572     Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal].
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome, orders have been placed
for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and tenders have been invited
or are in the course of preparation for others.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Cr. No. 582     Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1976; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project is intended to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program from April 1, 1975,
through March 31, 1977. Since the approval of the project, increased pro-
duction in steel products in India and further developments in IR's indigen-
ization program have resulted in a less than anticipated foreign exchange
requirement. It is expected, therefore, that of a total Credit of US$110
million, some US$30-40 million may be undisbursed at the end of the current
project period. During the year 1975/76, IR carried 223 million tons of
freight traffic, 6% more than forecasted. The project is being implemented
satsifactorily.
Cr. No. 585     Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Two technical reports for rural water authorities and one report
for Lucknow City Water Authority representing 15% of the project have been
approved by IDA, and procurement for materials and civil works contracts for
these schemes is proceeding. The first works will now commence in September
1976 following the 1976 monsoon. All consultants for engineering, organiza-
tion, management, tariffs and accounting services of the Jal Nigam (water
supply development corporation) and the water authorities as agreed with IDA
are now engaged. The Jal Nigam has adequate finance and working capital to
proceed with schemes.
Cr. No. 609     Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Cr. No. 610     Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: October 22,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
BOMBAY URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               :   Bombay Metropolitan Region Development
Authority (BMRDA).
Beneficiaries:          :   Bombay Municipal Corporation (BMC) for its Roads
Department and its subsidiary Bombay Electric
Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST).
Amount:                 :   US$25.0 million.
Terms:                  :   20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace.   Interest
at 8.7% per annum.
Relending Terms:        :   BMRDA to BMC:  20 years, including 4-1/2 years of
grace.
Annual interest of 9.2%.
BMRDA to BMC for BEST: Repayable over 15 years,
including 3 years of grace. Annual interest at
9.2%.
Project
Description:          :   The project is aimed at improving the bus services
in Greater Bombay and in aiding the BMRDA's ini-
tial traffic management and development planning
activities. Project components would include:
- improvement and augmentation of BEST's
bus fleet, through the procurement of 700
buses and related chassis components;
- construction and equipping of three bus
depots and a workshop, and extension and
re-equipping of three existing depots and
one workshop;
- execution of traffic engineering schemes
at about 40 locations to improve the cir-
culation of buses;
- provision of technical assistance and training
to BEST in its review of operations and manage-
ment of bus services;



ANNEX III
Page 2
-  provision of technical assistance and train-
to BMC in the execution of traffic engineering
measures; and
-  provision of technical assistance and train-
to BMRDA in organizational development, regional
development planning and investment programming,
mass transport pricing and funding and regional
traffic management.
Estimated Costs         :                                       (US$ Million)
Local   Foreign   Total
I. Bus Services Improvement
BEST
Buses and Spares      19.43     2.37    21.80
Other Equipment        0.80      0.36    1.16
Civil Works            4.74      0.52    5.26
Land                   1.20       -      1.20
Technical Assistance/
Training             0.06     0.20     0.26
Incremental Working
Capital              2.00      -       2.00
Sub-Total BEST      28.23     3.45    31.68
BMC
Equipment              0.31      0.04    0.35
Civil Works            7.62      0.88    8.50
Land and Resettlement 0.32        -      0.32
Technical Assistance
Training             0.06     0.20     0.26
Sub-Total BMC        8.31      1.12    9.43
Sub-Total of I      36.54     4.57    41.11
II. Development Planning
and Management
BMRDA
Technical Assistance       0.16      0.18    0.34
Total Before
Contingencies          36.70     4.75    41.45
III.  Contingencies
-  Physical                1.24      0.13    1.37
-  Price                   6.77      0.94    7.71
Sub-Total of III        8.01      1.07    9.08
Total Project Cost        44.71      5.82   50.53



ANNEX III
Page 3
Financing Plan                                            (US$ Million)
Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                     19.18     5.82   25.00
BMRDA                     0.19      -      0.19
BMC-Roads                11.20      -     11.20
-BEST                 14.14      -     14.14
44.71     5.82    50.53
Estimated Disbursement                              FY77    FY78   FY79  FY80
Annual                   5.10  10.50   8.50  0.90
Cumulative               5.10  15.60  24.10 25.00
Procurement
Arrangments               Procurement of bus chassis, bus bodies, spare
parts and workshop/depot equipment and tools
would be co-ordinated by the Stores Department
of BEST's Transport Division. The procurement
of bus chassis, chassis components as well as
workshop equipment valued at US$17.4 mil-
million equivalent would be on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Contracts
for the supply and mounting of bus bodies
valued at US$9.0 million would be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding in
accordance with local procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank. Supply contracts for
minor depot workshop equipment and tools and
traffic control equipment totalling US$0.7 mil-
lion would also be advertised locally.
Civil works for the construction of depots, work-
shops, bus shelters/terminal and traffic engineer-
ing works totalling US$19.0 million would be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding. The civil
works components would consist of about 50 individual
contracts which makes bulking impractical especially
since the traffic engineering schemes would be phased
over time in order to avoid traffic dislocaton.
Technical Assistance
and Training              About US$0.8 million would be provided for tech-
nical assistance and training under the project
to assist in the following.



ANNEX III
Page 4
For BMRDA:
- definition of an organizational
development program, preparation
of management, accounting and
finance procedures, and a review
of organization and manage-
ment progress                       109 man-months
- preparation of development plan-
ning and investment programming
procedures and project appraisal
guidelines                           45 man-months
- review of mass transport pricing
and funding                          12 man-months
- preparation of an initial traffic
management program for the BMC       12 man-months
-  training of staff                    10 man-months
For BMC
- provision of technical assistance
in its review of operations and
management of bus reviews         : 20 man-months
- training of Roads Development
staff                                30 man-months
For BEST:
- Provision of technical assistance
in its review of operations and
management of bus reviews          : 20 man-months
-  training of staff                    30 man-months
Rate of Return          :   The overall economic rate of return on the bus
services improvements would be about 28%.
Appraisal Report        :   No. 1185-IN, dated October 12, 1976.



INDIA
Bomby Urbin Transport Project
GREATER BOMBAY AND TWIN CITY AREA
Land Use ond Major Transport Focilities
<            l-2     A       i       X         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-hl-d. 
1~~~~~~~~~~i If                         1;0,/ 
Se e7 * | o / < m ; | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~           -W6-.y - -:  -0
(\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OduStr, Oi 'tnopoIolu
T-CO tym b-diC
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~~~~~~f             ] te  ei
b~~  (IiI17T~~                                               Saripan-s
'II! i'I~  HIII'' U~IIt,NAIOSAL  AR  K  o           L iI~  C  unbl
A  6 i~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M?Cphe
:.e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~lZ  terras'IeR
L    V       re&Bma  uiia  ,r
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tt .ybudr
0  :J.0   a  



