CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1335 IN
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Bombay Urban Transport Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BOMBAY METROPOLITAN REGION
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Dated December 20, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BOMBAY METROPOLITAN REGION DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
(hereinafter called the Borrower), a body corporate established
and existing pursuant to the Bombay Metropolitan Region
Development Authority Act, 1974, as amended, (hereinafter called
the BMRDA Act).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts (A) and (B) of the Project will be carried out
by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (hereinafter called
BMC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assis-
tance, the Borrower will make available to BMC a portion of the
proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and BMC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
.S. ...


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modification thereof (said General Con-
ditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
Paragraph 7 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"7. The term 'Guarantor' means India acting by its
President."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BEST" means the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport
Undertaking, a semi-autonomous authority of the BMC, existing
pursuant to the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act (Bombay Act No. III
of 1888), as amended (hereinafter called the BMC Act).
(b) "BMC" means the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay,
a body corporate established and existing pursuant to the BMC Act.


﻿()                                    -3-
(c) "Bombay Metropolitan Region" means the region defined
as such in Section 2 (b) of the BMRDA Act.
(d) "Greater Bombay" means the area defined as such in Sec-
tion 3 (al) of the BMC Act.
(e) "Maharashtra Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and the Governor of the State of Maharashtra of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(f) "Project" and references to "Parts" thereof means the
project and parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment.
(g) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and BMC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes the schedule to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.
(h) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BMC pursuant to Section 3.01
(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in ac-
cordance with the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿)                                     -5 -
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the prin-
cinal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the princiDal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the
Project, and ensure the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Proj-
ect, with due diligence and efficiency, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources re-
quired for the purpose of completing the Project.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause BMC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to
enable BMC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or per-
mit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
(c) For the purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project
and supervising the execution of Parts A and B of the Project by
BMC, the Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1976 or such
later date as the Bank may accept, establish a project coordina-
tion and monitoring unit. Such unit shall:
(i) report to the Borrower's Transport and Communications
Board;
(ii) undertake all major Project coordination and progress
monitoring functions including:


﻿()                                   -7-
(A) preparing quarterly physical and financial
status reports on the basis of periodic pro-
gram reporting by the BMC City Engineers De-
partment and BEST;
(B) monitoring BMC's and BEST's performance and
their compliance with the Loan Agreement and
the Project Agreement; and
(C) arranging for remedial measures to overcome
any delays or other impediments to Project
execution; and
(iii) include two works administrators and two works ac-
countants who shall be appointed not later than
December 31, 1976 or such later date as the Bank may
accept, and who shall devote full time to the func-
tions described above.
(d) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan with-
drawn in respect of Parts A and B of the Project to BMC under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and BMC, under terms and conditions not inconsistent with those set
out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-8-
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ organization,
management, finance, development planning and transport consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment shall be satisfactory to the Bank in accordance with a
time schedule to be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower by
the Effective Date.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan are insured,
or that adequate provision is made for their insurance against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insur-
ance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, reports and contract
documents in respect of Part C of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii)


﻿-9-
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower proposes to make any substantial
change in (a) the scope of responsibility and jurisdiction of its
functional boards or its Town and Country Planning Division or
(b) the duties and initial work program of the Traffic Planning
and Evaluation Subcommittee of its Accounting and Finance Manage-
ment Division, the Borrower shall allow the Bank a reasonable op-
portunity to comment on such proposals.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have an annual audit
satisfactory to the Bank made of its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and re-
lated statements) for each fiscal year in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied by independent and quali-
fied auditors; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year its unaudited financial statements; (iii) furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in any case not later than eight months
after the end .: each such year, (A) certified copies of its finan-
cial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
st,;tments of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Sect' *n 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.


﻿(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will iso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect,
at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien cre-
ated on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as sec-
urity for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or
(B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions
and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date
on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall furnish the Bank:
(a) by May 31 of each year, or such other date as the Bank
may accept, its approved budget for its then current fiscal year;
and
(b) by September 30, 1977, or such later date as the Bank
may accept, for its review, a draft five year regional investment
plan for the fiscal years ending 1978 to and including 1982.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) A default shall occur in performance of any obligation
on the part of Maharashtra under the Maharashtra Agreement.
(b) A default shall occur in performance of any obligation
on the part of BMC under the Project Agreement.
(c) Any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BEST.
(d) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that BMC will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or Maharashtra under the
Maharashtra Agreement.
(e) The BMRDA Act shall have been amended or repealed, in
whole or in part, or any rules or regulations pursuant thereto
shall be promulgated, amended or repealed, in whole or in part,
in such a way, in any such case or taking such cases together, as
to diminish substantially the capability of the Borrower to meet
any of its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿-13 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the follcving additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph   (a) or (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph. (c) or (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 14
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Project Agreement on behalf of BMC
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(b) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and BMC, respectively, has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
and
(c) the execution of the Maharashtra Agreement on behalf of
Maharashtra has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BMC, and is legally binding upon BMC in accordance
with its terms;


﻿-15 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and BMC, respectively, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and BMC in accordance with its
terms; and
(c) that the Maharashtra Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by Maharashtra, and is legally binding on Maharashtra
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 21, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The Metropolitan Commissioner of the Borrower
is designated as a representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wuT)
For the Borrower:
The Metropolitan Commissioner
The Bombay Metropolitan Region
Development Authority
18th Floor
New Administrative Offices Building
Madame Cama Road
Bombay 21 (400-021)
India


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
BOMBAY METROPOLITAN REGION
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By /s/ Kewal Singh
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works (includ-       7,000,000          50%
ing relocation of
utility facilities)
(2) Buses, bus components,    12,000,000
workshop equipment
and traffic control
equipment
(a) procured by                              100% of foreign
international                           expenditures or
competitive                             100% of local
bidding                                 expe.Aitures
limit d to ex-
factory cost
(b) otherwise                                50% of local
procured                                expenditures
(3) Technical assistance        1,000,000        100%
and training
(4) Unallocated                 5,000,000
TOTAL      25,000,000


﻿-19-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) -payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $200,000, may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures for BMC and BEST civil works
and technical assistance before that datE but after November 1, 1975;
.       and


﻿- 20 -
(b) withdrawals under Category (3) in respect of training of
BMC or BEST staff until the Bank has approved the training program
described in Section 3.07 of the Project Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated short-
fall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to
meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement per-
centage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Bus Services
(1) Procurement and putting into regular service by BEST of
465 single-deck and 235 double-deck buses, and augmenting
BEST's bus fleet thereby, or by other means, by at least
260 buses by September 30, 1979. Procurement of adequate
spare parts for the buses so procured.
(2) Construction by BEST of three bus depots at Goregaon,
Dharavi and Bandra having an aggregate capacity of
360 buses. Improvement and extension by BEST of the
existing bus depots at Marol, Kurla and Worli so as to
increase their aggregate capacity by 50 buses.
(3) Construction by BEST of one new bus workshop, and
extension and re-equipping by BEST of the existing
bus workshop at Dadar, so as to bring total workshop
capacity to 2,200 buses.
(4) Construction by BEST of eleven sheltered bus termini,
together with road widening to enable buses to load
and unload off the carriageway, at such locations as
are acceptable to the Bank.


﻿-22-
(5) Providing technical assistance (estimated twenty man-
months) for, and completing, a review of BEST's bus
operations and management practices; and training BEST's
staff.
Part B:   Traffic Circulation
(1) Construction by BMC, at locations acceptable to the Bank
and the Borrower, of eight road flyover bridges, improve-
ments at twelve intersections to channel traffic, works
to widen and extend two streets and widen one bridge,
two pedestrian bridges and five pedestrian tunnels or
such similar works as may be agreed between the Bank and
the Borrower.
(2) Installation by BMC of electric traffic signals at
four intersections.
(3) Provision of technical assistance in traffic engineering
to BMC's Traffic Planning Division and Traffic Opera-
tions Division (estimated twenty man-months) and train-
ing of BMC staff.
Part C:   Development Planning and Management - BMRDA
Development of the organizational structure and divisional
work programs of BMRDA; preparation of a staffing program;
adoption of basic management and administrative procedures and
an adequate accounting, financial management and reporting


﻿S                            -23 -
system; preparation of an initial traffic management program
for the Bombay Metropolitan Region; and provision of technical
assistance in respect thereof.
*              *              *              *
The numbers set out in this Schedule are approximate.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿- 24 -0
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1                      $805,000
Beginning April 1, 1981
through October 1, 1995
On April 1, 1996                                  $850,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿*                                     -25 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are snecified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                    1.30%
before maturity
More than three years but                    2.60%
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                  4.Fo
more than eleven years
More than eleven years but                   6.95%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years but                  7.850
not more than eighteen
years before maturity
More than eighteen years                     8.70%
before maturity


﻿-26 -                                   (
SCHEDULE 4
Borrower/BMC Lending Terms
A.   Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement shall clearly obligate the Borrower and BMC as follows:
1.   Proceeds of the Loan relent to BMC for the benefit of
BEST for Part A of the Project shall be repayable in substantially
equal semi-annual installments of principal commencing about three
years after, and ending about fifteen years after, the Effective
Date. Such proceeds shall be promptly transferred to, or paid for
the benefit of, BEST, and BEST shall not be required to make any
transfers in respect of such proceeds, or otherwise in respect of
the Project, from its accounts to those of BMC except to the ex-
tent required to enable BMC to meet its obligations to the Borrower
in respect of such proceeds.
2.   Proceeds of the Loan relent to BMC for Part B of the
Project shall be repayable in substantially equal semi-annual
installments of principal commencing about four and one half years
after, and ending about twenty years after, the Effective Date.
3.   In respect of all proceeds of the Loan relent to BMC:
(a) interest shall be charged on the principal amount
from time to time outstanding at an annual rate one-half


﻿- 27 -
a percentage point above the rate specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement and shall be payable semi-annually
commencing within six months of the first withdrawal;
(b) the commitment charge payable pursuant to Section
2.05 of this Agreement and all other charges payable by
the Borrower in respect of the Loan shall be borne by
BMC except to the extent that any such charges relate to
the portion of the Loan to be retained by the Borrower
for Part C of the Project;
(c) the risk of fluctuation in the relative values of
currencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be
borne by BMC; and
(d) the Borrower shall be relieved of its obligation
to relend funds to the extent, if any, that the Borrower's
right to withdraw proceeds of the Loan shall have been
suspended or cancelled.
4.   BMC shall undertake to perform all its obligations pur-
suant to the Project Agreement, and the Borrower shall obtain rights
sufficient to enable it to meet all its obligations pursuant to
the Loan Agreement, including without limitation the right to sus-
pend, and in appropriate circumstances cancel, disbursements pur-
suant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in the event that BMC fails
to meet its obligations pursuant thereto.
B.   Other Project Loans
If the Borrower provides funds other than the proceeds of the
Loan to BMC in consequence of the Borrower's obligations pursuant


﻿-28-
to Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, such funds shall be provided
to BMC for the benefit of BEST, on terms no less favorable than
those in respect of the loan provided for in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


