CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1335 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Bombay Urban Transport Project)
betveen
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY
Dated December 20, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY (hereinafter
called BMC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to $25,000,000, on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that BMC agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
BMC, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to BMC on the terms and con-
ditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS BMC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿93 -
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BMC shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate ad-
ministrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall pro-
vide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, fa-
cilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
BMC shall carry out Part A of the Project through BEST.
(b) BMC shall provide the funds lent to it by the Borrower
pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement for purposes of Part A
of the Project to BEST on terms and conditions not inconsistent
with those set out in Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. In order to assist B?4C in carrying out Parts
A (5) and B (3) of the Project and the studies described in Section
4.04 (a) of this Agreement, BMC shall employ, or with respect to
Part A (5) of the Project and such studies cause BEST to employ,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works for Parts
A and B of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿S4
Section 2.04. (a) BMC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by BMC
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, BMC shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) BMC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and construction, work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) BMC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank its annual budgets, accounts and financial statements in respect
of Traffic Operations, Roads and Bridges, and any audit reports
relating thereto, in each case, promptly after their preparation


﻿-5-
and all such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) BMC shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all Project-related installations, sites, works, buildings, property
and equipment of BMC and BEST and any relevant records and docu-
ments in relation thereto.
Section 2.06. BMC shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, BMC shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) BMC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) BMC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by BMC of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BMC and BEST
Section 3.01. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BMC
shall maintain the existence of BEST within BMC and shall cause
BEST to employ competent and qualified staff in adequate numbers
for the efficient operation of BEST.
Section 3.02. BMC shall not make any material modification in
the structure, organization, functions, responsibilities and tech-
nical and financial operations of BEST without prior consultation
with the Bank.
Section 3.03. BMC shall cause BEST to operate its business
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management and shall operate, maintain,
renew and repair its plant, equipment and property in accordance
with sound engineering and public utility practices.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, BMC
shall not itself, and shall not permit BEST to, sell, lease, trans-
fer or dispose of any of the properties or assets of BEST except
in the ordinary course of business.
Section 3.05. BMC shall cause BEST to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with sound public utility practice.


﻿*                           -T -
Section 3.06. BMC shall cause BEST to establish by October 1976,
or such later time as the Bank may accept, and maintain a Bus Opera-
tions and Management Task Force, with composition and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank for the purposes inter alia of
re-examining BEST's bus routes and schedules and preparing an
improved management costing system for BEST's transport operations.
Section 3.07. BMC shall prepare a staff training program for
transport and related activities of BMC and BEST under the Project,
including estimates of foreign and local expenditures for financing
by the Bank, BMC and BEST, respectively, and shall furnish such
program to the Bank for its approval by December 31, 1976 or such
later date as the Bank may accept.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BMC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices (a) its Project-related operations and (b) the operations
and financial condition of BEST, including records which show
separately the result of its operations in respect of (i) transport
and (ii) electricity distribution.
Section 4.02. BMC shall cause BEST to, (i) have an annual audit
satisfactory to the Bank made of its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and re-
lated statements) for each fiscal year in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied by independent and quali-
fied auditors; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
in any case not later than five months after the end of each such
year its unaudited financial statements; (iii) furnish to the Bank
as soon as available, but in any case not later than nine months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its fi-
nancial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and fi-
nancial statements of BEST and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, BMC
shall take, or cause to be taken by BEST all such action as will


﻿-9-
ensure that BEST does not incur any long-term debt unless the net
revenue of BEST for the fiscal year next preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not
less than 1.4 times the maximum debt service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all long-term debt of BEST including the
long-term debt to be incurred.
For the purposes of this section and Section 4.05:
(a) The term "long-term debt" means all debt incurred includ-
ing debt assumed or guaranteed by BMC on behalf of BEST, except
debt incurred in the ordinary course of business and maturing by
its terms on demand or less than one year after its incurrence;
(b) The term "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall be
deemed to be incurred (i) under a contract or loan agreement, on
the date the contract or loan agreement providing for such debt is
entered and, (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee shall have been entered into;
(c) The term "net revenue" means gross revenue from transport
and electricity operations, less all operating expenses, including
adequate maintenance, taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, if any,
and administrative expenses, but before provision for depreciation
and interest and other charges on debt;
(d) The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of principal repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on long-term debt;


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, BMC
shall ensure that BEST's short-term debt does not at any time
exceed 35 per cent of BEST's long-term debt.
Section 4.05. BMC confirms that it is one of the objectives
of the Project to enable BEST to finance the costs of BEST's trans-
port operations out of BEST's transport revenues, and to this end
BMC shall cause BEST to continue to improve the operating and fi-
nancial performance of its transport operations. BMC and BEST shall
take appropriate actions in this regard including:
(a) carrying out by December 31, 1978, or such later date as
the Bank may accept, studies pursuant to terms of reference accept-
able to the Bank to:
(i) examine the capacity of bus users to meet the
costs of BEST's transport operations;
(ii) review the bus fare structure of BEST by the Bus
Operations and Management Task Force referred to
in Section 3.06 of this Agreement, with the
objective of determining the optimum bus routing
and fare structure and setting a schedule for
their implementation;
(b) implementation by BEST of recommendations resulting from
the studies described in the foregoing paragraph (a) acceptable to
the Bank and BMC;


﻿- 11 -
(c) (i) furnishing the Bank by August 31 each year, for
discussion, BEST's operating performance targets
for the next following financial year, in light
of the benefits expected from the Project, with
financial quantification of such improvements;
and not later than August 31 in each year, reviewing
with the Bank BEST's performance targets for the
preceding financial year; and
(ii) making provision in BEST's budget for the financial
effect of the achievement of such improved operating
performance targets.
(d) Subject to the recommendations of the studies described
*        in paragraph (a) above, BEST shall make provision in the transport
operations section of BEST's budget for the financial year ending
in 1981 for traffic revenues to finance operating expenses for
that year and, in the event operating expenses for such year exceed
traffic revenues, BEST shall consult with the Bank not later than
six months after the end of such financial year on the financing
or other provision to be made in respect of such deficit.
Section 4.06. BMC shall cause BEST to provide for depreciation
in its accounts in accordance with accounting principles satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 4.07. (a) To the extent consistent with the BMC Act,
BMC shall not take any action to recover from BEST any arrears in
payments to BMC contemplated by Section 460KK thereof owing as of
March 31, 1976 if such action is likely to leave BEST with insuffi-
cient working capital.


﻿- 12 -
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, BMC shall take,
or cause to be taken, such actions including bus fare and electricity
tariff revisions by BEST as are required to ensure that:
(i) For each financial year commencing with the
financial year ending in 1978, BEST will:
(A) recover its operating expenses, taxes, debt
service including provisions for sinking funds
and statutory contributions to BMC;
(B) make adequate allowance for working capital;
(C) take all reasonable steps to recover any
loss incurred by BEST in the previous financial
year; and
(D) to the extent that any such loss not recovered
in the financial year after the one in which
it is incurred, recover such loss in the next
financial year; and
(ii) BEST's Transport Operating Division is provided
until the end o"' te BEST financial year ending
in 1981 with sufficient revenues to meet operating
expenses, taxes (including Government of Maharashtra
passenger taxes), payment of interest and principal
on loans allocated to the Transport Operating
Division and a reasonable allowance for working
capital.


﻿-13-
(c) BMC shall furnish the Bank, by May 31 of each year, or
such later date as the Bank may accept, the approved budget of
BEST for its then current financial year.
Section 4.08. (a) BMC shall cause BEST, by April 1978 or such
later time as the Bank may accept, to revise its financial plan-
ning and costing procedures so as to improve its setting of finan-
cial targets and financial reporting and shall implement improved
costing procedures.
(b) BMC shall adopt a job description for the Chief Accounts
Officer of BEST acceptable to the Bank by the Effective Date, or
such later date as the Bank may accept.
Section 4.09. As used in this Article:
(a) "Short-term debt" means debt other than long-term debt
as defined in Section 4.03.
(b) "Traffic revenue", in respect of BEST's transport opera-
tions, means gross revenues from all sources related to bus opera-
tion excluding sale of fixed or semi-fixed assets or any components
thereof, revenues or other income from property, income from invest-
ments and deposits from contractors, hirers and licensees.
(c) "Operating expenses", in respect of BEST's transport
operations, means all expenses of bus operations, including adequate
provision for maintenance and depreciation (computed in accordance
with the requirements of Section 4.06), taxes and levies, and pro-
portions of BEST and BMC administration costs determined in accordance


﻿with allocation bases acceptable to the Bank, but excluding any
charges for interest (including interest on internal funds) or
debt service. "Taxes and levies" includes all wheel taxes, vehicle
license fees, fuel and oil taxes, and levies and imposts incurred
to enable buses or other vehicles to operate; "taxes and levies"
do not include Government of Maharashtra passenger taxes, nor any
proportion of surpluses transferred annually to BMC by BEST under
Sections 460KK and 460LL of the BMC Act.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of BMC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the
following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Loan Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of
this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this
Section, the Bank shall promptly notify BMC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BMC:
Municipal Comissioner for Greater Bombay
Mahapalika Marg
Fort, Bombay 1 (400-001)
India
Cable address:
BOWASEP
Bombay


﻿Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BMC may be taken or executed by its Municipal
Commissioner or such other person or persons as its Municipal Com-
missioner shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. BMC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the
person or persons vho will, on behalf of BMC, take any action or
execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by BMC pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER BOMBAY
By /a/ Keval Singh
Authorized Representative


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
All contracts (a) for civil works, (b) for the supply and
mounting of bus bodies and (c) for bus depot equipment, may be
let pursuant to competitive bidding in accordance with local pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank, provided that civil works for
relocation of utility facilities may be carried out by force
account.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured pursuant to competitive
bidding with local advertisement: (i) bidders shall be required
to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;


﻿- 20
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to BMC of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of BMC and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in India
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group : bids offering any other goods.


﻿-21 -
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿- 22 -
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, BMC shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a de-
scription of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, BMC shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform BMC and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿-23 -
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
BMC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not con-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform BMC
and state the reasons for such determination.


