CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1335 IN
MAHARASHTRA AGREEMENT
(Bombay Urban Transport Project)
between
GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 20, 1976


﻿MAHARASHTRA AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1976, between GOVERNOR OF
THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA (hereinafter called Maharashtra) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority
(hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five
million dollars ($25,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Maharashtra
undertakes the obligations hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿9                           -3-
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. Maharashtra undertakes to conduct, at least an-
rually, a review of the Borrower's'operations, and to provide to
the Borrower such funds and other assistance as may be required by
the Borrower to meet all obligations it shall have incurred within
the scope of its authority under the BMRDA Act.
Section 2.02. (a) Maharashtra and the Bank shall cooperate
fully to ensure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished.
To that end, Maharashtra and the Bank shall from time to time, at
the request of either party, exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to the performance of their respective ob-
ligations under this Agreement, the performance by the Borrower
of its obligations under the Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the performance by BMC of its obligations under
the Project Agreement, the administration, operations, resources
and expenditures of BEST and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) Maharashtra hereby approves the Project for purposes
of Section 14(3) of the BMRDA Act. Maharashtra shall take all ac-
tion which shall be necessary on its part to cause and enable the
Borrower to perform its obligations under the Loan Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and to enable BMC to perform its ob-
ligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, and shall not take or permit any of its agencies to take any
action which would prevent or interfere with the performance of
any such obligations of the Borrower or BMC.


﻿- 4-
Section 2.03. Maharashtra shall take such action as may be
required under Section 22(2) of the BMRDA Act to enable the Borrowe7
to comply with the requirements of Section 4.02 of the Loan Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. (a) Maharashtra shall not amend, suspend or
abrogate the BMRDA Act in such a way as to materially or adversely
affect the ability of the Borrower to carry out its obligations
under the Loan Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) Maharashtra shall not amend, suspend, or abrogate the
BMC Act in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the
ability of BMC to carry out its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. If
the Loan Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions, the Bank shall promptly notify Maharashtra
of this event and, upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement
and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall forthwith term-
inate.
Section 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and all obliga-
tions of Maharashtra and the Bank hereunder shall cease and deter-
mine on the date on which the Project Agreement terminates in ac-
cordance with its terms.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.ol. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For Maharashtra:
Secretary to the
Government of Maharashtra
Urban Development Department
Mantralaya Building
Bombay 32 (400-032)
India
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     40098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              24823 (RCA) or
64145 (wui)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
For and on behalf of the
GOVERNOR OF THE
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
By /s/ Kewal Singh
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


