Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19421-IND
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 3.8 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND
PROPOSED LOAN
OF US$13.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
DECENTRALIZED AGRICULTURAL AND
FORESTRY EXTENSION PROJECT
August 5, 1999
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 1999)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
Rp. 1.0  (US$ 0.0001)
US$1 = (Rp. 7,500)
FISCAL YEAR
(April 1 to March 31)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAET                    - Agency for Agricultural Education and Training
AARD                    - Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
AOET                    - Area of Expertise Team
APBD II                 - Annual District Government Development Budget
APBN                    - Annual Central Government Development Budget
BANGDA                  - Directorate General for Regional Development of MOHA
BAPPEDA kabupaten    - District Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS                - NationilfDevelopment Planning Agency
Bupati                  - District Head
BIPP                    - District Center for Agricultural Information and Extension
BLPP                    - Provincial Agriculture Training Center
BPKP                    - Central Audit Bureau
BPP                     - Sub-district Rural Extension Center
BPTP                    - Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology of AARD
BPTPH                   - Center for Crop Protection in Food Crops and Horticulture
Camat                  - Head of Sub-district
CAS                     - Country Assistance Strategy
CEGC                    - Central Extension Guidance Committee
CEM                     - Country Economic Memorandum
DAFEP                   - Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Desa                    - A village within a district
DEC                     - District Extension Committee
Dinas Agriculture       - Agricultural Services Units
Dinas PKT               - District Office for Forestry and Soil Conservation
DIP                    - Annual Budget
EIS                     - Extension Information System
EO                      - End of Project
EO                      - End of Year
FE                      - Field Extension Team
FF                      - Farmer Field School
FY                      - Borrower's Fiscal Year
GO                     - Government of Indonesia
HR                     - Human Resources Development
Vice President     : Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director   : Mark Baird
Sector Director     : Geoffrey B. Fox
Task Team Leader  : Dely P. Gapasin



IDA                    - International Development Association
Inpres                 - Presidential Instruction, including a class of GOI grants
Kabupaten              - A district within a province
Kanwil                 - Provincial Representative Office of MOA/MOFEC
KPKN                   - MOF Treasury Office
Kecamatan              - A sub-district within a district
Kuasa Pimpro           - Sub-Project Representative
M&E                    - Monitoring and Evaluation
MENKOWASBANGPAN  - Ministry for Coordination of Development Supervision and
Administrative Reforms
MIS                    - Management Information System
MOA                    - Ministry of Agriculture
MOFEC                  - Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops
MOHA                   -Ministry of Home Affairs
NCAE                   - National Center for Agricultural Extension of MOA
CFECE                  - National Center for Forestry and Estate Crops Extension of MOFEC
NGO                    - Non-Government Organization
PAD                    - Project Appraisal Document
Pimbagpro              - Sub-Project Manager
Pimpro                 - Project Manager
PIP                    - Project Implementation Plan
PKL                    - Forestry Extension Worker
PKM                    - Forestry Subject Matter Specialist
PKT                    - District Dinas Forestry Unit
PIU                    - Project Implementing Unit
PMU                    - Project Management Unit
Poka                   - District Working Group
PUOD                   - DG for Decentralization and Provincial Autonomy of MOHA
PPL                    - Agriculture Field Extension Worker
PRA                    - Participatory Rural Appraisal
T&V                    - Training and Visit Extension System
S/GA                   - Social and Gender Analysis
SMS                    - Agriculture Subject Matter Specialist
SOE                    - Statement of Expenditures
SPM                    - Payment Remittance Orders
Sub-PMU                - Sub-Project Management Unit
TA                     - Technical Assistance
TOT                    - Training of Trainers
WATSAL                 - Water Resources Structural Adjustment Loan






Indonesia
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators .................................2
B. Strategic Context
1.  Sector-related  CAS goal supported  by  the project ........................................................2
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ..........................................................                                  3
3.  Sector issues to  be addressed  by  the project and strategic  choices ...............................6
C. Project Description Summary
1.  Project components .........................................................6
2.  Key policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by  the project .....................................8
3.  Benefits and  target population ..........................................................8
4.  Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ..........................................................8
D. Project Rationale
1.  Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .......................................... 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ..... 13
3.  Lessons learned  and  reflected  in proposed project design ... ...................................... 13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership .................................................. 14
5.  Value added  of Bank support in  this project .........................................................     15
E. Summary Project Analyses
1.  Economic andfinancial assessment ......................                                     ................................... 16
2. Technical assessment .........................................................                                                         17
3. Institutional assessment .......................................................... 17
4.  Social and gender assessment ......................................................... 17
5.  Environmental assessment .........................................................                                                    18
6.  Participatory  approach  ......................................................... 19
7. Checklist of Bank policies .........................................................                                                   20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability .........................................................                                                               20
2.  Critical risks ......................................................... 21
3.  Possible  controversial aspects .........................................................                                             21
G. Main Credit/Loan Conditions
1.  Conditions for negotiation .........................................................                                                  22
2. Conditions for board presentation .........................................................                                            22



3. Other conditions ..................................... 22
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................................                                                   23
I. Compliance with Association/Bank Policies ........................................                                      24
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary ........................................                                                   25
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description ........................................ 30
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs ........................................                                                  35
Annex 4. Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary ........................................ 36
Annex 5. Financial Summary  ........................................ 39
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ........................................                               40
Table A     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ........................................                         44
Table B    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  ........................ ........... 45
Table C    Allocation of Credit/Loan Proceeds ................................................                         46
Table D     Procurement Plan ................................................ 47
Annex 7. Financial Management System ................................................                                     48
Table A   Action Plan for Financial Management ................................................                        52
Table B    Funding Mechanism  for Farmer-Managed Activities ........................................ 53
Table C    Terms of Reference ................................................ 55
Annex 8. Project Processing Budget and Schedule ..... .........................                      .                     59
Annex 9. Documents in Project File ................................... 60
Annex 10 Statement of Loans and Credits ...................................                                                61
Annex 11 .Country at a Glance ................................... 64
Map IBRD 30419



Indonesia
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Date: August 5, 1999                           Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Dely P. Gapasin
Country Director: Mark Baird                   Sector Director: Geoffrey B. Fox
Project ID: ID-PE-59930  Sector: Agriculture  Program Objective Category: Environmentally
Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan and   Program of Targeted    [X]   Yes   [ ] No
Development Credit                            Intervention:
Project Financing Data             [X] Loan   [X] Credit  [] Guarantee    [  Other
[Specify]
For Credits/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ M/SDR M): Loan US$ 13.0/Credit SDR 3.8 (US$5.0 equivalent)
Proposed terms:                    [    Multi-currency   [xl Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 3 (10)    [    Standard Variable [x] Fixed          [    LIBOR
-based
Years to maturity: 15 (35)
Commitment fee: 0.75% (0.5%)
Front End Fee: 1.0% (0)
Service charge: ---% (0.75%)
Financing plan (US$ m):
Source                         Local          Foreign         Total
Government                                          5.22            0.35          5.57
Co-financiers                                       0               0             0
IBRD                                               11.84            1.16          13.00
IDA                                                4.55             0.45           5.00
Other (specify)
Total      21.61            1.96          23.57
Borrower: Republic of Indonesia
Guarantor:
Responsible Agency(ies):
1. District Governments of two participating districts each in the Provinces of Central Java, D.I. Aceh,
D.I. Yogyakarta, East Nusa Tenggara, North Sumatra, North Sulawesi, South Kalimantan, South East
Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, and West Nusa Tenggara
2. National Center for Agricultural Extension, Ministry of Agriculture
3. National Center for Forestry and Estate Crops Extension, Ministy of Forestry and Estate Crops



Page 2
Estimated disbursements (Bank     Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4
FY/US$M):
Annual    3.10        5.80         5.30        3.80
Cumulative    3.10        8.90        14.20       18.00
Project implementation period: 4 years Expected effectiveness date: 11/01/99
Expected closing date:       03/31/04
A. Project Development Objectives
1.   Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The objective of the project is to assist the Borrower in enhancing farmers' capacity to
participate in extension activities and in strengthening the capacity of the district-level integrated
agricultural and forestry extension system which would promote economically feasible,
environmentally sustainable, and socially acceptable farming practices and increased farmers' income.
The planned capacity building and the major changes needed to redirect the district-level extension
system would exceed the project's time frame of four years. However, the project would assist the
Government in initiating the required institutional, policy, and management reforms. It would also
refocus the integrated agricultural and forestry extension program to address farmers' specific
constraints, needs, and priorities in the participating districts. This would be attained through two
main components. The first part would focus on farmers to enhance their capacity to participate inand
to lead extension activities and the second part would focus on the extension system to strengthen the
capacity of the district-level extension staff. A small central component would provide extension
policy and project management support. In this project, a "farmer" means any farmer, including a
crop producer, a farm worker, a livestock producer, a fisher, an agro-processor, and an agro-forester.
The key performance indicators are shown in Annex 1.
B. Strategic Context
I.   Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see
Annex 1):
CAS Progress Report dated: 02/17/1999  CAS Progress Report discussed: 03/09/1999
The CAS objectives which are addressed by the project are:
(a) Reducing poverty and inequality
The social gains in Indonesia over the past 30 years of significant poverty reduction is now at
risk of being reversed because of the serious economic crisis. Poverty has increased from about 10%
in 1997 to about 14% in 1999 with almost 40 million people affected. One objective of the Bank's
current program is to protect the poor by ensuring the availability of food, supplementing the
purchasing power of the poor, and preserving critical social services. The project would support the
poverty alleviation objective of the Government and of the Bank. It will focus on the needs and
opportunities in rural areas and on the strategy required in lesser developed areas (kawasan andalan or
development zones), particularly in the eastern islands, as six of the ten participating provinces are in
this region.



Page 3
(b)  Promoting institutional reforms
In the proposed Bank strategy for 1999/2000, one of the areas of focus is strengthening
institutions to support future sustainable growth including public sector reforms. The Bank has made
the improvement of efficiency, transparency of public sector institutions, and of reduction of
corruption an integral part of Bank operations in Indonesia. There is an opportunity to undertake
serious governance reforms, including civil service reforms and fiscal decentralization. Theproject
would provide opportunities to accelerate the ongoing decentralization of public services, including
extension, which was started 1992 with the transfer of the agricultural service units (Dinas) to the
District Governments. Decentralization of public services will be enhanced under Public Law No. 22
on Local Government and No. 25 on Central Regional Financing Arrangement. A joint 1996 Minister
of Home Affairs and Minister of Agriculture decree established the District Centers for Agricultural
Information and Extension or Balai Informasi dan Penyuluhan Pertanian (BIPP), under the District
Head (Bupati), to consolidate the various extension programs and staff of the district agricultural
service units. The guidelines to the District Governments to formally organize theBIPPs was signed
by the Minister of Home Affairs on April 27, 1999.
(c)  Enhancing human resource development
The CAS progress report, of February 1999, emphasizes institutional strengthening in support
of human resource development. While the focus in the CAS is on education and health, this project
would contribute significantly by strengthening the district agricultural and forestry extension system.
The project would improve the capacity of farmers and of farmer groups to participate in extension
planning and in the implementation of extension activities. It would support the Government's human
resource development program by improving the capacity of extension managers and of extension
workers to respond to farmers' needs through more demand-driven, transparent, and effective
extension system.
2.   Main sector issues and government strategy:
(a)  DAFEP and the current situation in Indonesia
Drastic changes have occurred in Indonesia as a result of the serious economic crisis in the past
two years. Indonesia witnessed a dramatic reversal of fortunes when the nominal value of the rupiah
fell at one point by 80% and annual inflation reached almost 80%. The economy swung from rapid
growth to even more rapid contraction, and unemployment and underemployment increased
significantly. The CAS progress report of February, 1999 cites three objectives of the Bank's current
program in Indonesia: (a) to stabilize the economy, (b) to protect the poor, and (c) to introduce
structural reforms. Indonesia's weak institutional infrastructure has been cited as one of the main
impediments to recovery. Many weaknesses in public sector institutions stemmed from the highly
centralized nature of decision making and lack of autonomy at local government levels, an underpaid
civil service, a lack of transparency in budget preparation, and weak audit arrangements.
The results of a recent Bank-supported review of the availability of credit and agricultural input
supply for farmers in the project's ten participating districts indicated serious input constraints. These
constraints were, however, long-term structural/institutional problems which have just been marginally
worsened by the on-going economic crisis. Modern inputs, like fertilizers and pesticides, where
available, are generally accessible to a relatively narrow segment of the agricultural sector, about 10-
20% in project areas excluding South Sulawesi and Java. This implies that the extension system
would also focus on assisting the other 80% of the farmers. The review recommended: (a) focusing



Page 4
additional resources on potential crops; (b) giving priority to more broad-based application of existing
technologies; (c) focusing on technologies which involve low cost and low risk but have high pay-off
potential; (d) emphasizing improved management changes which do not require additional operating
capital; and (e) ensuring that production-based initiatives are market-driven. Farmers are, and will
increasingly be, confronted with changes in market conditions and inputs availability. The farmers in
the project areas would need help in coping with such drastic changes.
The CAS analysis of February 1999 shows that the people of Java seem to have been affected
more than those on outer islands. In redesigning the project, two provinces in Java (Central Java and
D.I. Yogyakarta) were included. The project would enhance the implementation of the long-term
poverty alleviation program of the Government by focusing on rural areas in the outer islands
(specifically the eastern islands), where there is a high incidence of poverty. The people live in highly
dispersed and marginal areas with poor quality soils or with insufficient water. There is potential
social unrest in these areas partly because of the sharp increases in prices of food and of production
inputs.
(b)  Introduction of institutional and management reforms in the district extension system
Agricultural extension in Indonesia, which is largely public sector, was decentralized in 1992
but major implementation problems remain. The project would strengthen the newly integrated
district extension centers, which would manage local extension activities. The mandate and functional
structure of the BIPPs have been approved by issuing decrees from the ministries concerned. The
project would support the integration of the agriculture sub-sectors (food crops, livestock, and
fisheries) and strengthen their linkage to forestry and estate crops extension through the
implementation of a joint extension program. Farmer-oriented and participatory operating procedures
and tools would be introduced to improve extension management. The project would also promote
partnerships with private sector entities, non-government organizations, universities, research and
assessment institutes, and farmers' organizations, such as water users' associations, through
contracting or cost-sharing arrangements.
(c)  Integration of agriculture andforestry in the district extension program
One important feature of DAFEP is the integration of agricultural extension with forestry and
estate crops extension. This would facilitate inter-sectoral collaboration in the systematic testing and
promotion of agro-forestry approaches and enhance awareness of environmental, biodiversity,
conservation, and water management issues. It would also provide an opportunity for the district
extension system to become demand-driven and farming systems-oriented. Most farming systems in
the project sites already include trees and shrubs for livestock feeds and the planting of fruit trees and
estate crops in mixed farming systems by small holders. A joint mechanism to plan and implement an
integrated extension program at the district level would allow the agricultural a-nd forestry extension
workers to reach large areas, such as those in non-forested areas, which have been left out where
farmers do not have access to technical advice and information. It would improve the management of
deforested areas by emphasizing tree crops in mixed farming systems. This has become more critical
because of the transfer of responsibility for estate crops to the Ministry of Forestry.
Under the project, the forestry extension staff would work with the agricultural extension staff
in the project areas to ensure that farmers get advice on agro-forestry and estate crops production. The
project would support a three-pronged strategy: (a) to mainstream agro-forestry, environmental, and
related issues into the district extension program, (b) to test extension approaches and environment-
friendly technologies with farmers to identify and showcase good practices in agro-forestry; and (c)
streamline both agricultural and forestry extension to make them more efficient and less costly. A



Page 5
memorandum of agreement will be signed by the Directors of the two national extension centers
indicating the areas of collaboration. Some mechanisms identified and incorporated in the design of
the Project include: (a) joint planning and implementation of the district and sub-district extension
programs; (b) establishment of a joint NCAE and NCFECE Preparation Team at the central level to
provide overall coordination; (c) participation of forestry staff in the field extension teams (atsub-
district level) and experts teams (at district level); (d) participation of staff in common training
courses; (e) assignment of forestry extension staff (from Dinas PK7) at the BIPPs; (f) at least one of
the Coordinators at the BIPP should be from forestry extension; and (g) the two national extension
centers will provide counterpart funding for the project.
(d)  Promotion of innovative, participatory extension alternatives
The project would promote participatory extension approaches that would redirect and make
extension more demand-driven and accountable to clients. These are in parallel to the reforms being
introduced under other Bank-support projects such as the Water Resources Structural Adjustment
Loan (WATSAL) in irrigated areas. There are participatory methods and tools which have been field-
tested by Government implemented development projects with the support of donors. Many of the
participatory and grassroots concepts, processes and tools being proposed under the project have been
patterned after these field-tested and already adopted concepts and mechanisms in many areas in the
country. Some examples are: (a) farmer-to-farmer extension with farmers as active disseminators; (b)
research-extension-farmer collaboration to identify technology menus and enhance on-farm testing
and demonstrations of improved technologies; (c) partnerships with the private sector, non-
government organizations, universities, and farmers' organizations; (d) use of farmer field schools to
train farmers and farmer trainers; (e) participatory appraisal, planning and monitoring; and (f) farmer
group development and networking. Local government officials, donors, village leaders, and farmers
are aware of the application and outcomes of these approaches. It is expected that the Government
and donors would continue to support the mainstreaming effort to other areas through DAFEP and the
district extension system.
(e)  Improvenient ofpersonnelpolicies and incentivesfor extension workers
A review of the incentives for extension workers was conducted as part of project preparation.
The review team recommended several schemes, which would be the basis for the preparation of an
action plan to improve the outdated point system in current use. Some changes would require system-
wide civil service reforms and the extension system would not be expected to effect major changes on
its own. The project would assist in the implementation ofan improved reward program for extension
staff outstanding performance. It would include: (i) a review of the job description of the extension
staff; (ii) a review of the policies for recruitment, promotion, and training of extension staff; (iii) the
identification of key performance indicators for personnel evaluation; (iv) the development of
appropriate reward/award schemes for outstanding extension staff; and (v) the preparation of a human
resources development plan in the participating sub-districts and districts. The goal would be to
develop a sustainable level of staffing with the right skill mix for a well-trained and well-motivated
extension staff. New recruits should have a much higher level of education and well-targeted training
would result to a higher caliber staff. The project would focus on reforms which could be acted upon
by the local government (Bupati). For example, the project would pilot the use of a third party
farmers' satisfaction survey (by NGOs and/or universities) to allow farmers and other stakeholders to
participate in the performance evaluation of extension workers, including self assessment instrument
for extension staff, The results would be linked with reward/award scheme to recognize outstanding
performers. Good benchmark information on the staffing requirement and skill mix of staff, collected
during the human resources assessment study, would facilitate the monitoring and evaluation of the
changes and learn lessons from the pilot activities.



Page 6
(f)   Public-private sector partnerships
The project would support activities to reduce public sector extension in areas where other
providers are more capable, and assist the latter's involvement, where relevant. There are cases where
both groups would have complementary interests.  The project could create opportunities for
partnerships so that the extension system can tap the expertise and experiences of agribusiness
enterprises. In some districts in Central Java, D.I. Yogyakarta, and South Sulawesi, where agricultural
development is advanced and the private sector is active, the later's role in extension would become
more important. Some joint activities were identified during project preparation which have been
discussed in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The project would (1) through participatory rural
appraisal exercises, identify possibilities for partnership activities and agreements on contracting or
cost-sharing arrangements; (2) develop administrative and financial rnechanisms to facilitate
implementation of joint activities; and (3) assess the experiences with these partnerships for broader
application elsewhere in the country. Increased collaboration with the private sector and others would
have to be closely monitored.
3.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(a)   Decentralized agricultural services and linkages to forestry.  The project would support the
decentralization effort of the Government to improve the effectiveness of the district-level support
services, including extension.  With the establishment of the District Centers for Agricultural
Information and Extension (BIPPs), it would be possible to consolidate staff, facilitate team building
within sub-sectors and across sectors, and allow the staff to develop an integrated extension program
using farining systems approaches including agro-forestry.
(b) Off-Java focus. The CAS progress report cites that the people of Java have been hardest hit by
the economic crisis. In response, two Java provinces (Central Java and D.I. Yogyakarta) have been
included in the project, not only for poverty alleviation focus but also to represent more advanced
areas and where the private sector has been active in providing altemative sources of extension
support.  However, eight of the ten participating provinces are still off-Java to support the
Government's program to develop the outer islands, focusing on poverty reduction and agricultural
area development (in kawasan andalan or development zones).
(c)   Equity.  Targeted extension activities would improve the so far limited access of women and
rural youth to extension services. The project would ensure that these groups participate actively and
would benefit directly from the project.
C. Project Description Summary
1.   Project components (see Annex 2for the detailed description and Annex 3for the detailed cost
breakdown):
Vision for extension and strategy for implementation. The vision for extension in Indonesia
is that most farmers who want it, will have access to information and services relevant to the efficient
operation and sustainable development of their enterprises. Consistent with the Government's recent
policy thrust towards increased decentralization, outsourcing, and a redefinition of its role in the rural
sector, the public extension service would withdraw where it is not needed or where the private sector
and other providers could fulfill it. The evolution of the extension service would be towards public
financing and private sector provision, and ultimately to private financing and private provision. The
ultimate goal, over a flexible period of time to be regularly updated, would be for a bare minimum
extension service for a portion of the poor section of farmers, whereas those well-off would have
access - like all farmers - to mass media and to extension for fee. The Government is already taking
some important steps towards that ultimate goal by: (a) decentralizing responsibilities to the regions;



Page 7
(b) streamlining among and within agencies and services; (c) outsourcing; and (d) redefining its new
and reduced role in the sector. The project would assist the Government in catalyzing the process and
by directing the transition by building the capacity among farmers and extension staff.
The Government has to clearly define its implementation strategy to direct the extension system
towards achieving this vision. A prerequisite for success would be to involve farmers and other
stakeholders by giving them the opportunity to express their expectations from extension and how they
would like it to operate. Different groups of farmers would require different interventions based on
their specific situation. There are currently about 38,000 agricultural and 6,000 forestry extension
workers (NCAE, 1998) serving the needs of about 38 million farmers in Indonesia. The streamlining
of public extension agencies would result to more staff available. The overall number of extension
staff could be reduced through attrition, taking the social factor into consideration. It would also be
important for the Government to decide the proportion of farmers it can afford to reach. The ratios
should be indicative and should not drive the extension budget allocations. The changes would have
to be planned, organized, and programmed to allow the Government to gradually divest itself while
reaching farmers through less demanding and less costly means such as using mass media. Having
fewer extension workers would improve the conditions for the remaining staff. It would eventually
result to better-motivated, well-equipped, and properly trained professional extension staff.
Project Components and Sub-components
Cost Inc].     % of       Bank-      % of
Component                    Category       Contin-       Total    financing    Bank-
gencies                 (US$M)   financing
(US$M)
1. Enhancement of farmers' capacity to
participate in and to lead extension activities   -Institution  7.89      34%         6.19      78%
The project would support the (a) revitalization  building
of farmer groups and organization of farmers'
networks; (b) building of capacity of farmers to
participate in and to lead extension activities; and
(c) promotion of participatory extension methods
and provision of media and technology support.          ___
2. Strengthening the district extension system
The project would support the (a) introduction of  -Physical  11.16       47%         8.20      74%
institutional and management reforms at district   development
level; (b) building the capacity of extension staff  -Institution
in the participating districts; and (c)      building
strengthening the extension support and delivery  -Project
systems in participating districts.        management
3. Provision of central extension policy and
project management support.                -Policy           4.52         19%         3.61      74%
The project would support the (a) improvement  support
of extension policy and conduct of special  -Institution
studies; (b) strengthening the central extension  building
support systems, including degree and non-  -Project
degree training; and (c) provision of technical  management
assistance and project management support.
TOTAL                                                       23.57        100%        18.00      76%
la Amount includes technical assistance to support district implementation



Page 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project are discussed in Section 2 of
the PAD (main sector issues and government strategy), and includes: (1) integration of the isolated
agriculture extension units into the District Centers for Agricultural Information and
Extension centers (BIPPs); (2) linkage of agricultural extension to forestry and estate crops extension
in the district and sub-district integrated extension programs; (3) introduction of participatory and
transparent extension processes and procedures; (4) improvement of personnel policies and a reward
program for extension staff; (5) sustained financing of extension activities from the district allocations;
and (6) identification and development of mechanisms for executing public-private sectorpartnership
activities.
3.   Project benefits and target population:
The largest benefits would accrue to farmers, fishers, and dwellers in upland, deforested areas in
the participating districts, whose extension needs are not addressed fully or effectively by the current
district extension system. There are about 9,323 farmer groups in the 1,136 project villages located in
the 20 participating districts, who would directly benefit from theproject. There are a total of 13,373
villages in the 20 participating districts and the farmers in non-project areas would benefit as well,
since the enhanced facilities of the BIPPs, including training of district extension workers, would
improve the regular provision of extension services to the entire district. Farmers from other
neighboring districts may benefit from spillover effects, particularly in the introduction of improved
technologies and provision of information about new technology, markets, prices, inputs and credit
availability. This number is small in comparison to the about 38 million farrmers in Indonesia.
However, the potential impact of an improved, more efficient extension system would be far reaching
because of the largely rural population who rely on agriculture as the main source of their livelihood.
The district level extension staff would be better organized, trained, and motivated to respond to
farmers' needs, priorities, and constraints. Women farmers and rural youth would also benefit since
the project would support targeted activities.
For all participating districts, the main economic and financial benefits from theproject are
expected from: (1) increased yields in the main farning systems due to project-induced factors such
as the introduction of new technologies and better crop management, and increase in the coverage of
extension to reach more farmers, particularly the inhabitants of forest buffer zones who have very
limited access to extension services; (2) some increases in the area harvested; (3) reduction in crop
losses from better harvest/storage practices and from fewer pest/disease outbreaks; (4) the reduction in
some input costs (e.g., pesticides and fertilizers) through integration of sustainable farm practices with
existing conditions (pest incidence, soil nutrient needs); and (5) higher unit prices of certain
commodities (e.g., vegetables, cattle, others) through the production of higher quality outputs and
improved marketing channels. In addition, some institutional benefits include: (a) increased cost
effectiveness through better organization and integration of various extension services; (b) improved
links with other partners in the business of extension; (c) strengthened capacity in the wake of
accelerated decentralization; and (d) increased participation of farmers and other stakeholders.
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements:
(a)   Implementation period. The project will be implemented over a four-year period, during the
Government's fiscal years of FY1999/00 (expected to start on November 1, 1999) to FY2003/04
(expected to be completed by October 31, 2003).



Page 9
(b)  Executing agencies.  The District Governments of two pilot districts each in five provinces
will initiate the implementation of the project, including Kupang and TTS (East Nusa Tenggara),
Bantul and Kulon Progo (D.I. Yogayakarta), Labuhan Batu and Simalungun (North Sumatra), Gowa
and Maros (South Sulawesi), and Kendari and Kolaka (South East Sulawesi). After 12 months, two
partner districts each in five provinces will start implementation, including Aceh Barat and Pidie (D.I.
Aceh), Banyumas and Magelang (Central Java), Bolaang Mogondow and Minahasa (North Sulwesi),
Kota Baru and Tanah Laut (South Kalimantan), and Bima and Lombok Barat (West Nusa Tenggara).
(c)  Project implementation and coordination:
At village level:
*  The smallest implementation units of theproject are farmer groups in selected villages. A total of
1,136 pilot villages will participate with 9,323 farmer groups in these villages. Farmer groups will
prepare their farmer group farm business plan and village action plan, specifying their extension
needs and priorities, and will manage their group activities.
*  The Sub-district Heads (Camat), Village Heads (Kepala Desa), and the leaders of the farmers'
networks will provide guidance to the farmer groups and village implementers.
At district and sub-district levels:
-  An inter-agency District Extension Committee (DEC), chaired by BAPPEDAKabupaten (District
Development Planning Agency), would provide guidance to the BIPP. The DEC wouldinclude
members from the district agriculture and forestry agencies, the Assisten II of the District Head's
Office, and representatives from the private sector, universities, non-government organizations,
farmer organizations, and other public sector service units.
-  The District Head will appoint the BIPP Manager and re-deploy extension workers and support
staff to the BIPP, approve the BIPP budget and local counterpart funds, and provide land for the
construction of the BIPP headquarters.
- The BIPP/IBPP in each participating district would be the main implementers of the project. The
BIPP Manager would be accountable to the District Head for project implementation. The BIPP
would prepare a district annual work plan and budget; monitor and evaluate all project activities;
procure civil works, furniture, and equipment; prepare technical and financial progress reports,
and facilitate disbursement and accounting of funds.
*  The BIPPIBPP would collaborate with the district technical support units (Dinas Kabupaten),
universities, research and technology assessment institutes (BPTPs) of the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD), provincial training centers (BLPPs) of the Agency for
Agricultural Education and Training (AAET), farmer groups, private sector entities, non-
government organizations, and farmers' organizations.
*  A District Project Implementing Unit (PIU) will be established at each BIPP to be headed by a
District Sub-Project Manager (Pimbagpro). He/she will report directly to the BIPP Head. The
PIJ would provide project management and coordination, prepare and review the annual work
plan and budget, prepare technical progress and financial reports, and ensure that sufficient
counterpart funds are allocated annually by the District Government.
At central and provincial levels:
* Overall project coordination and policy support would be provided by the National Center for
Agricultural Extension (NCAE), as lead agency, in collaboration with the National Center for



Page 10
Forestry and Estate Crops Extension (NCFECE) for forestry-related activities. The central level
staff would review extension policies, conduct special studies, and monitor project progress using
the agreed key performance indicators. A joint multi-disciplinary team, based at NCAE, would
provide guidance to the BIPPs and monitor activities across participating districts. The NCAE and
NCFECE will collaborate with AARD on research and technology development and with AAET
on training and curriculum development.
*  An inter-agency Central Extension Guidance Committee (CEGC), would be established at the
central level, to provide policy guidance and inter-agency coordination at national level. The
CEGC would review the overall project progress, coordinate with national agencies in budget
allocation, and resolve issues on the credit/loan administration.
*  The National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) would chair the CEGC.  The
members would include representatives from the MOA, MOFECE, the Directorate General of
Regional Development (BANGDA) of MOHA, the Directorate General for Public Administration
and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) of MOHA, the Directorate General of Budget of MOF, the
private sector, universities, non-government organizations, and farmers' organizations.
•  A Central PMU would be established at NCAE to provide overall project coordination. A Central
Project Manager (Pimpro) would be appointed by the Minister of Agriculture. A Sub-Project
Management Unit, under a Sub-Project Manager, would be established at the NCFECE to
coordinate agro-forestry related activities. The PMU/Sub-PMU would coordinate the preparation
of the annual work plans and budget estimates, monitor the progress of activities, prepare
consolidated technical progress and financial reports, and liaise with the Bank's task team. The
Project Manager's representative (Kuasa Pimpro), at the provincial level, would coordinate
activities involving several participating districts within a province.
* The Provincial Representative Offices of MOA (Agriculture Kanwil) and MOFECE (Forestry
Kanwil) would ensure that linkages with provincial support institutions (technology assessment
institutes and training academies) are strengthened and maintained. The Agriculture Kanwil
would also provide offices for the provincial support specialists assigned to the regions.
(d)  Project oversight (policy guidance, internal control). As described above in the section on
"project coordination", the central government agencies (NCAE and NCFECE), and provincial offices
(Agriculture and Forestry Kanwil) would provide overall oversight for the project.
(e)  Internal control, accounting andfinancial reporting. A financial management system (FMS)
would be established under the project (details in Annex 7), in line with the requirements of the Bank
as described in O.D. 10.02 and the LACI standards. The FMS would consist of internal control,
accounting, financial reporting, and disbursement procedures, taking into consideration the existing
Govemment systems for foreign-funded projects. Annual work plans and budget estimates (DIP
budget) would be submitted to BAPPEDA Kabupaten and then to BAPPENAS and MOF for the
allocation of counterpart funds. The PMU/Sub-PMU/PlIUstaff would be responsible for procurement,
execution of civil works, and authorization of expenditures under the project.  The project
expenditures would be paid by the MOF's Treasury Offices (KPKN) for the credit/loan and central
budget funded activities, and by the District Financial Division (BagianKeuangan) for the activities
funded from the district (APBD II) budget. The funding mechanism and arrangement for farmer-
managed activities are described in Annex 7.



Page 1 1
A report of the assessment of the capacity of implementing agencies was furnished the
Association/Bank by the Government as a requirement for negotiations. Each District PIU would
maintain separate sub-project accounting records, on cash basis, for each source of funding. All
relevant supporting documents would be kept for annual audit and random inspection by the
Association/Bank's supervision missions. The PIU would submit district sub-project financial reports
to the NCAE on quarterly basis. The Central PMU/Sub-PMU would maintain similar accounting
records for the activities executed at the central and provincial levels. In addition, the PMU would
compile the district financial reports, prepare consolidated financial project accounts on a quarterly
basis, and integrate these reports in the semi-annual and annual progress reports of the project.
(f)   Auditing.  The District Sub-Project Managers would submit their respective sub-project
accounts reports to the Central PMU at NCAE, which would prepare a consolidated project accounts
report. The consolidated project accounts report would be submitted to BPKP (Central Audit Board)
or other qualified auditors acceptable to the Association/Bank, for annual financial audit. Likewise,
the financial statement of the Special Account and Statement of Expenditure (SOE) would be prepared
by the Directorate General of Budget, and audited annually by the BPKP. These audit financial
reports would be submitted to the Association/Bank each year, six months after the fiscal year's
closing date.
(g) Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. The design of the project, which is grassroots-
oriented and emphasizes testing or piloting and promotion of innovative participatory extension
approaches, processes, procedures, and tools would require an efficient monitoring and evaluation
system (MES). It has to be cost-effective and practical and would be operated at different levels with
the active participation of farmers and other stakeholders. For these pilots, proper benchmark
information on the key performance indicators and other data would be collected as early as possible
so that independent assessments of these pilot activities can later be completed using a "with or
without" comparisons within a "before and after" framework. A vigilant and well-trained staff would
be required to implement the MES with assistance from an evaluation specialist. The continued
participation of the participating districts would be based on satisfactory performance and project
implementation progress as determined annually using a set of criteria agreed with by the Government
and the Association/Bank.  This performance-based assessment would start with an in-depth
evaluation, by an external team of experts, to be conducted after the second year of project
implementation. The decision for succeeding years would be based on the annual assessment and
reporting of project implementation progress.
The key indicators for each component and sub-components have been developed jointly with
the Government (see Annex 1). The following M&E activities were included in the project designand
provided with resources in the cost tables: (a) benchmark surveys during the first year to collect
baseline data on the key performance indicators; (b) intensive field supervision and quarterly reporting
of project progress; (c) participation of farmers and relevant stakeholders in field monitoring and
periodic field surveys; (d) quarterly/semi-annual monitoring workshops to share experiences; (e) in-
depth project evaluation by an external team after the second year of the project; (f) joint mid-term
review by the Government and the Association/Bank by June 30, 2002; (g) impact evaluation during
the last year of the project as part of project completion; (h) establishment of a practical and model
MIS and MES systems in each participating district; (i) assistance from MIS and M&E specialists
from the technical assistance team; and (j) strengthening the central MIS and MES systems. The
NCAE and NCFECE would be responsible for overall monitoring and evaluation of the project.
Association/Bank supervision would be carried out every six months with interim supervision by RSI
staff, as necessary. This project may also participate in the planned thematic supervision scheme of
the RSI.



Page 12
D. Project Rationale
1.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A study of the extension system of Indonesia was carried out in 1995, with assistance from the
Bank, which provided the project concept and strategies. The study provided a basis for consensus
building within the government at all levels and the eventual establishment of district extension
centers in 1996. This document formed the basis for project preparation which was carried out fully
by the government. The Bank was involved in this effort with the expectation that the Bank would
follow up with a project. Because of delays, due to the economic situation, the government begun
implementing the strategy laid out in that document, and the real costs of not moving ahead now
seems high.
Several project alternatives were considered during project preparation. These included: (a) a
project to support the national extension program; (b) a pilot project with limited scope involving four
provinces; and (c) an expanded project, following the same concept but covering ten provinces. The
third alternative was selected as the best option considering the situation in the country and was used
as the basis for designing this project. A national extension project would not be feasible under the
current situation when the extension system had been decentralized and is now the responsibility of
the local governments. Initially, a pilot project covering eight districts in four provinces was
considered, with well focused pilot activities. The pilot project had been appraised in April 1998 but it
was put on hold due to the economic crisis in Indonesia. At one point, the possibility of dropping the
pilot project was aiso considered. However, the Government continued to consider extension as a
priority area and, in fact, the crisis underscored the growing importance of agriculture and the critical
role of extension in assisting the farmers for coping with the changing conditions. In February 1999,
the Government and the Bank agreed to redesign the project, expand its scope, and change the project
strategy so that it could address not only institution building but also the immediate need of increasing
agricultural productivity as contribution to economic recovery.



Page 13
2.    Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned):
Sector issue                         Project                     Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-financed                                                            Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
*Agricultural research   &   *Agricultural Research and Extension Project    S (PCR)
extension                (Loan 11 79-IND)
*Agricultural extension   *National Food Crops Extension Project (Loan      S (PCR)
1 267-IND)
*Agricultural extension   *Third National Agricultural Extension Project    U (PCR)
(Loan 2748-IND)
*Agricultural research    *Agricultural Research Management Project (Loan    S (ICR)            S (ICR)
3031 -fND)
*Agricultural research    *Second Agricultural Research Management              S                 S
Project (Loan 3886-IND)
*Agricultural area       *Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Area Development          U                  U
development              Project (Loan 3984-lND)
*Agricultural area        *Sulawesi Agricultural Area Development Project      U                  U
development               (Loan 4007-IND)
*Agricultural area        *Bengkulu Regional Development Project                S                 S
development
*Agricultural area        *Maluku Regional Development Project         Newly implemented
development
*Agricultural training and    *Integrated Pest Management Training Project     S                  S
extension                (Loan 3586-IND)
*Water Resources          * Water Resources Structural Adjustment Loan   Newly approved     Newly approved
Other development
agencies
*Agricultural development   *Integrated Agricultural and Rural Development
Project in South East Sulawesi (IARDP), JICA
(Japan)
*Livestock development    *Delivery of Livestock Services in Eastern   Second Year
Indonesia, ODA (UK)                          Implementation
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3.    Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The CAS progress report of February 1999 cites that recovery from the serious economic crisis
in the past 18 months would be hampered by weak institutional infrastructure. The Bank's program to
help the country meet the new challenges includes the strengthening of institutions to support
sustainable growth, including public sector reforms to improve its efficiency and transparency. The
project would support the introduction of reforms in the decentralized district extension system. As
such, it will introduce alternative extension approaches in the districts where training and visit (T&V)
extension model is still being used. The lessons learned from previous projects which are reflected in
the project design are:
(a)   Farmers' participation.  Participatory extension is more effective since it assists farmers in
deciding what they want from extension. There are Government implemented projects, assisted by
donors, which have developed and field-tested farmer-oriented concepts and tools. Some examples
are the farmer field school approach, participatory planning, and farmers' networking under the
Integrated Pest Management Project (IPMTP); farmer group development and participatory planning
widely practiced under the IFAD-supported Income Generating Project for Marginal Farmers (P4K);
and the participatory appraisal, planning and monitoring and farmer group development under the
GTZ-supported Kalimantan Upland Farming Systems Development Project (KUF) and the UK-



Page 14
supported Delivery of Livestock Services in Eastern Indonesia Project (DELIVERI). Some of the
participatory and grassroots concepts, processes, and tools being proposed under DAFEP have been
patterned after these field-tested and already adopted practices by farmers in other areas.
(b)   Fragmented extension system. The current system of fragmented extension units, with separate
agricultural support service offices (Dinas Food Crops, Livestock, and Fisheries), is not an appropriate
structure to address a decentralized, farming systems-based, and agribusiness-oriented support system
needed by farmers. Estate crops have been moved to the Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops in the
1998 reorganization. The Project would support the integration of extension services through the new
district extension centers (BIPPs) and ensure their linkage to forestry and estate crops extension by
implementing a common integrated extension program. It will encourage diversified approaches to
extension considering the varied needs of various client groups.
(c)  Institutional and management reforms. Institutional reforms, such as the establishment of an
integrated extension center, is not enough if not accompanied by improvements in policy and
management to ensure transparency and to reduce corruption. Changes in personnel policies,
including increases in salaries, and improvement in the incentive system are critical in motivating
extension workers. It is essential to develop a smaller and better skilled cadre of professional
extension staff in the long-term.
(d)  Partnership with other organizations.  It has been recognized that the current capacity of the
district extension workers to adopt these new practices is relatively low, and its upgrading will require
considerable training of extension staff. The capacity could be strengthened by tapping the expertise
and experiences of other public and private sector institutions and development agencies through
partnerships. They could build partnerships with private enterprises, non-government organizations,
universities, research and technology assessment institutes, training centers, and technical service units
through contracting and/or cost-sharing arrangements. Partnerships would enhance opportunities for
complementary or joint activities.
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
(a)   New integrated extension organization at the district leveL  The Government has already
taken steps to implement a new extension policy and decentralized organization. Decrees have been
issued by the ministries concerned to: (a) integrate all the district agricultural extension workers under
a single extension center; (b) approve the organizational structure of the district extension centers
(BIPPs); (c) provide guidelines to establish the district extension centers as local government units;
and (d) deploy staff from the agriculture Dinas offices to the district extension centers. The NCAE
and NCFEC have agreed to support (technically and financially) the district extension centers in the
implementation of integrated agricultural and forestry extension programs at the sub-district and
district levels.
(b)   Specialfundfor extension workers and project counterpart funds. In FY1998/99, in spite of
the economic crisis, the Govemment had allocated Rp.125 billion for central government grants
(Inpres Kabupaten or BPPL) to support the extension staff at the district level in implementing their
field activities. Additional funds have been allocated for operations and maintenance of theBIPPs and
the BPPs. Such funds are released directly to individual accounts of extension workers. The
allocation per district varies depending upon the number of extension staff. The NCAE coordinates
the allocation and utilization of Inpres funds. It is expected that the BPPL funding would continue
during and after project completion. Under DAFEP, about 90% of the total project funds would be
allocated to support district activities. The NCAE and NCFECE have agreed to provide counterpart
funds (APBN or national budget allocation) from their respective agency DIP budgets, with NCFECE
providing funds required for agro-forestry-related activities. The District Governments have started to



Page 15
provide local counterpart funds (APBD II or the district budget allocation.) since the start of project
preparation and they have agreed to increase the allocation annually during project implementation.
(c)  Project preparation by the Government.  DAFEP was prepared fully by the Government
through the joint coordination of NCAE and NCFECE and active participation of district officials and
BIPP staff. The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and detailed district proposals were prepared by an
inter-agency Project Preparation Team organized jointly by the two national extension centers. The
participating districts have organized Working Groups (Pokjas), chaired by the head of BAPPEDA
Kabupaten or the Assisten II from the District Head's Office. The district teams, including the BIPP
head and staff, have carried out field consultations, farmer surveys, and other project preparation
activities. Funds for project preparation were provided by the District Governments, the NCAE, and
NCFECE, from their own DIP budgets. No PHRD funding was available from the Bank for project
preparation. However, the Bank supported two studies, the first to carry out social and gender analysis
(1996) and the second to review the incentives for extension workers (1997).
(d)  Preparedness andpre-implementation activities. The Government has taken certain initiatives
to support pre-implementation activities of the project. They were designed to improve the capacity of
BIPP staff, proposed project staff, and farmer leaders to start project activities as quickly as possible.
These included: (a) provision of funds by the central and district governments for project preparation;
(b) development of training curricula and modules for priority topics; (c) training of trainers and key
farmer leaders on participatory appraisal methods including social and gender analysis; (d)
identification of central and district staff of the proposed PMU/Sub-PMU/PIU to manage and
coordinate project activities; (e) rehabilitation of selected BPP facilities using district funds; (f)
procurement of computers and other equipment to the participating districts using the Special
Extension Fund; and (g) establishment of a joint DAFEP Preparation Team and DAFEP Secretariat
consisting of NCAE and NCFEC staff to coordinate initial project activities and toliaise with relevant
Government offices and the Bank's task team.
5.   Value added of Bank support in this project:
In recent years, some donor-supported projects in Indonesia have tested and promoted
participatory extension approaches with very active farmers' participation. These include: (a) the
German/GTZ-supported Kalimantan Upland Farming Systems Development Project (KUF), (b) the
UK/ODA-supported Delivery of Livestock Services in Eastern Indonesia (DELIVERI), (c) the IFAD-
supported Income Generating Project for Marginal Farmers (P4K), and (d) the Bank- and USAID-
supported Integrated Pest Management Training Project (IPMTP). The IPMTP trained over 800,000
farmers using the season-long farmer field school approach, have introduced participatory planning,
and farmners' networking in the 12 main rice-producing provinces. Farmer group development and
participatory planning are widely adopted in 13 provinces through the P4K Project. In more limited
scale, participatory appraisal, planning and monitoring and farmer group development have been
introduced through the KUF and DELIVERI Projects. Many of the participatory and grassroots
concepts, processes, and tools being proposed under DAFEP have been patterned after these field-
tested and already adopted concepts and mechanisms in many areas in Indonesia. The project would
aim to mainstream the processes, procedures, and tools which have been successfully adopted in these
areas, with some modifications as needed. Both Government officials and donors are aware of the
achievements and lessons learned from these projects and they are expected to support the
mainstreaming and replication effort under DAFEP.
Some countries are gradually detaching the public sector from agricultural extension, leaving
the private sector and users to take increasing responsibility. Although the expectation in Indonesia
would be for extension to evolve from public financing to private sector provision, and ultimately to
privately financed and privately provided services, this is a long term goal. However, the project



Page 16
would provide opportunities for this gradual shift. The inclusion of two provinces in Java, where the
extension system is more developed and where the private sector is active, would provide
opportunities for developing appropriate partnership mechanisms. The NCAE will document the
experiences in other countries which have successfully adopted such mechanisms in order to learn
from them. The World Bank (1996) reviewed some promising alternatives to public extension
services which include co-financing of extension by farmers (Nicaragua, Ecuador, Honduras);
contracting services of private extension workers, non-government organizations, and universities
(Venezuela); decentralizing agricultural extension services to municipalities (Chile, Colombia); and
using mass media-based extension (Brazil, India, Peru, Philippines). Extension managers and staff
could also benefit from the experiences in other countries through exchange visits.
E. Summary Project Analysis
(Detailed assessments are in the project file in Annex 8)
1.   Economic and Financial Assessment (supported by Annex 4).
[ Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$       million; ERR=    %  [X ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[] Other (Specify)
For projects like DAFEP, where many of the principal benefits are not easily quantified in
monetary terms, a straightforward cost-benefit assessment to get at economic rates of return can be a
very demanding, if not also contentious, effort. For analytical convenience, this economic analysis
uses a cost effectiveness approach to evaluate the financial and economic viability of this venture.
This analysis determines what incremental yield increases (for the key cropping systems targeted for
extension activities) are required to recoup fully the financial and economic costs of the project
investments in each of the principal target districts, given available rates of return on alternative uses
of these provided resources. The analysis is carried out for each district in their current prices, with all
values expressed in US dollars.
For both economic and financial assessments, the yield-growth requirements are very small and
attainable. On average, a 0.24% to 0.29% annual rate of productivity growth is required of target
farmers for five years in order to allow the entire project to break even (e.g., generate an IRR of 20%
per annum) from both an economic and a financial perspective. However, there are differences in the
required district-level annual growth rates (e.g., from 0.15% for Maros in South Sulawesi to 0.80% for
Kulon Progo and Bantul, D.I. Yogyakarta for the economic analysis), if the individual district
investments were to break even. This is primarily a function of expected project coverage and existing
productivity levels in each district.
The very recent sharp devaluation of the rupiah certainly benefits agriculture. But the clearly
favorable results of the cost-effectiveness analysis have more to do with the very small size of the
proposed DAFEP investments relative to the exceedingly large district agricultural outputs these
investments intend to boost.
Fiscal impact. The central and district governments will finance US$5.57 million equivalent of the
total project expenditures of US$23.57 million. These costs, which are mainly for staff salaries,
transport, and other day-to-day expenditures, are small and thus, will not be a heavy burden for the
district governments. Local Govemments have guaranteed post-project expenses, amounting from
US$57,000-140,000 annually for each participating district, to support continuation of project
initiatives in the individual districts after theclosing of the project (Year 2004). Some of the expenses
might be retrieved from charging fees for extension services, and this option has not yet been factored
in determining the net fiscal burden to the districts. Although commitments have been obtained from
the local govemments to fund the extension efforts at local level, these could be subject to political
changes.



Page 17
2.   Technical assessment:
Technology testing and promotion.   The technologies to be tested by farmers in the
participating villages and the farmer-led technology on-farm testing and demonstrations to be carried
out by fanners with assistance from researchers and extension workers to showcase new technologies
(e.g., new crop varieties, fertilizer alternatives, use of trees/shrubs) would be based on the specific
farming system's requirements and problems identified by farmers. Identification of technology
"menu" and testing of potential technologies would be done by farmer groups with guidance from
researchers, private motivators, and extension workers. Researchers from the technology assessment
institutes would assist in the identification, testing, and evaluation of the adoption new technologies.
Constraints related to production and available technologies have been identified in the project areas
during project preparation. The choices of technologies to be tested or promoted would be confirmed
during the participatory assessment exercise in each village. The district implementation plan already
includes a description of the main farming systems, priority commodities, and main constraints in
production, post-production, and marketing. Close monitoring and rigorous analysis of field results, in
collaboration with researchers and extension workers, would ensure that the recommendations would
be appropriate and have no expected negative impact on the environment or to the farming
communities. The village appraisal exercises would also assess opportunities for involving the private
sector in technology testing and promotion.
3.   Institutional assessment:
(a)   District implementing agencies.   The two main components of the project would be
implemented by the District Centers for Agricultural Information and Extension (BIPPs) and farmer
groups and farmers' networks. The District Governments have committed to allocated extension
funds, including the district counterpart funds for the credit/loan. But this capacity may change due to
the current economic crisis in Indonesia. The capacity of the district extension centers to implement
the project may vary since they are new institutions and have no previous experience in implementing
Bank-supported projects. The quality of extension managers and staff may also differ from district to
district. Hence, the central and local governments have started to train district extension staff and to
create greater awareness among extension staff and local officials on the project concepts and
activities, using their own funds. Consultations were carried out with farmers and other stakeholders
during project preparation. Training of extension staff on project management, financial management,
procurement procedures, and participatory appraisal methods and tools would prepare the staff to
initiate the project activities quickly, through a retroactive financing scheme. To strengthen the
district extension capacity quickly, the Project would also tap the existing local expertise in the private
sector, NGOs, and universities through partnership arrangements.
(b) Central support. The staff of both NCAE and NCFECE have been actively involved in project
preparation and they would play a key role during project implementation. Since they will provide
overall project coordination and management support to the district extension staff, they also need
strengthening to ensure high quality assistance to the district implementers. They would provide
policy and technical advice, monitoring and evaluation support, training of extension managers and
trainers, and building awareness among officials and stakeholders at all levels.
4.   Social and gender assessment:
(a) Social and gender analysis. A social and gender analysis study was conducted in 1996 with
assistance from the Bank. The study team conducted surveys of farmers and focal groups, and held
discussions with local officials, extension workers, other stakeholders. Special effort was made to
interview women farmers, youth groups, and women extension workers. The analysis emphasized:
(a) social and agriculture profiles based on major constraints in the farming systems; (b) women's
positions in household and local agriculture; (c) status of public sector extension and constraints; (d)



Page 18
contribution of non-government organizations and the private sector as extension providers; and (e)
access to extension by women farmers. During the village appraisal, information on the status of
women and rural youth would be updated and targeted activities will be identified. In addition to
mainstreaming social and gender aspects, the project would support activities targeted at women such
as: (i) testing of technologies especially suited to women's production such as vegetables, raising
small ruminants, processing and marketing, etc.; (ii) promotion of small enterprises run by women's
groups; (iii) training of all-women groups in areas where their participation in mixed groups is not
feasible; (iv) seminars to sensitize policy makers, local officials, and village leaders on gender issues;
and (v) training and recruitment of women extension workers.
(b)    Women farmers and extension workers and rural youth. The February l999 CAS progress
report cites that, in the medium-term, the Bank's program would emphasize the strengthening of
environmental and social institutions, in addition to addressing the needs of Indonesia's women and
vulnerable minorities. Although women's contributions are important in agricultural production, they
hardly participate in extension activities because they are not socially recognized. The results of the
gender analysis showed that group meetings were considered as men's business; meeting schedule,
held at night, conflicted with women's regular work; women do not talk in mixed groups; meetings
with male extension workers were not acceptable; and some of the poorest households were headed by
women. Because of the necessity to train all-women groups, preferably by women extension workers,
more women extension workers have to be hired. They could better overcome communication barriers
during planning and extension implementation. The project would provide women extension workers
with equal opportunities for training and promotion, and appropriate transport (women's motorbikes)
to increase their mobility.
(c)   Community profiles.  During village appraisals, activity, opportunity, and decision making
profiles would be prepared for each participating village. The activity profile would show the role and
activities of men and women in each village. The opportunity profile would show women's access
and control of agriculture resources, market, information including extension services and technology.
The decision-making profile would indicate the responsibilities and decisions made by men and
women. Initial village profiles have been prepared for each pilot village and these would be updated
based on the results of periodic village appraisals to be carried out.
5. Environmental assessment: environmental category   [ ]A  [ ]B  [X] C
Environmental Aspects
The project has been classified as a category "C" project. There are no negative environmental
impacts envisaged and agro-forestry approaches and environmental concerns would be promoted.
Potential adverse effects are not significant in complexity, severity or extent and are amenable to
management by adherence to standard operating procedures and good practices. The main farming
systems in the project sites already include shrubs and trees. One of the spin-offs of developing an
integrated agricultural and forestry extension program at the decentralized level would be to improve
the management of deforested areas and other critical areas by emphasizing tree crops in mixed
farming systems. The Forestry and estate crops extension system has also been decentralized. Their
involvement would ensure that the needs of remote communities in the interface areas (e.g., forest
margins) are addressed, where appropriate. The project would promote information and practices
related to the environment such as conservation farming in hilly upland areas; integration of
trees/shrubs in the farming systems; integrated pest management in crop production; needs-based
fertilizer applications instead of national recommendations; zero/minimum tillage; use of trees/shrubs
in livestock production; biodiversity conservation; and natural resource management. Through the
public-private sector partnership arrangements, contributions could also be made to improve



Page 19
awareness of environment-related issues by stakeholders and civil society. Farmers would receive
guidance and relevant inforination from researchers and extension workers who will monitor the
testing and replication of identified good practices.  As the project progresses, there will be
opportunities to include extension activities in critical upland areas (e.g., watersheds). One distinction
of DAFEP villages would be the planting of trees and shrubs in the homestead, farms, and village
areas.
6.   Participatory approach: [key stockholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]
(a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups. Participatory approach was used at all
stages of project preparation. Most of the key stakeholders have been identified and consulted during
the preparation process. The key stakeholders involved include: (a) farmers and farmer groups,
including women and rural youth; (b) village and farmer leaders, and contact farmers; (c) district and
sub-district extension staff and officials; (d) representatives from universities, non-government
organizations, the private sector, and research/assessment institutes; and (e) policy makers at different
levels. Fanners' surveys, focal group meetings, and individual interviews were conducted during the
preparation of the project implementation documents. Social and gender analysis was carried out to
assess the status of women farmers and to identify priority activities.
The results of these consultations have been incorporated in the design of the project to ensure
site specificity and the targeting of extension activities. Farmers' participation resulted in the design
of the first main component focusing on strengthening farmers' capacity to participate in extension
activities. An assessment of the personnel policies and incentives and consultations with extension
workers provided valuable inputs into the design of the second main component focused on
strengthening the capacity of district extension staff. Policy makers have been aware of the project
and have maintained its priority in spite of the changed economic conditions. To encourage a greater
role of other providers, local agribusiness entrepreneurs (involved in input supply, processing, and
marketing), the local Chamber of Commerce (Kadin), and university extension units have been
consulted. During an assessment study to determine the availability of agricultural inputs and credit,
conducted in February 1999, agribusiness entrepreneurs and rural bank representatives in the 10 pilot
districts were interviewed. The project preparation documents were updated based on the results of
this study. Stakeholders' consultations would continue as the project progresses, and changes in the
project design would be incorporated, as needed, based on their feedback.
(b)   Other stakeholders. Other stakeholders are village organizations (e.g., PKK for women) and
other community-based organizations (local NGOs). Consultations have been conducted with public
sector extension support agencies, such as the technology assessment institutes, training centers, and
technical support service units at the provincial and district levels. Mechanisms to strengthen the
research-extension-farmer linkages were identified and incorporated in the project design. It has been
agreed that these organizations, including their national counterparts, would sign letters of exchange
with the NCAE, NCFECE, and the BIPPs, to collaborate in specific areas.



Page 20
Stakeholders                  Preparation        Implementation       Operation
Beneficiaries/fanner groups/village groups  IS/CON/COL     IS/COL              CON/COL
Private Sector and NGOs               IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL          CON/COL
Research, technology assessment institutes  IS/CON/COL     IS/CON/COL          CON/COL
Technical service units (Dinas)       IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL          CON/COL
Academic and training institutions    IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL          CON/COL
Local governments                     IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL          IS/CON/COL
Other donors                          IS/CON               IS/CON              IS/CON
[Note: Form of planned involvement: information sharing (IS); consultation (CON); and collaboration (COL)]
7. Checklist of Bank Policies
(a) This project involves (check applicable items):
[ Indigenous peoples (OD 4.20)                  [X] Financial management (OP 10.02), (BP 10.02)
[ Cultural property (OPN 11.03)                 [X] Financing of recurrent costs (OMS 1.2 1)
[ Enviromnental impacts (GP 4.01), (BP 4.01),  [XI Local cost sharing (GP 6.30), (OP 6.30),
(GP 4.01)                                        (BP 6.30)
[X] Gender issues (OP 4.20)                     [ ICost sharing above country three year average
(GP 6.30), (OP 6.30), (BP 6.30)
[] Involuntary resettlement (OD 4.30)           [ Retroactive financing above nornal limits
(OP 12.10), (GP 12.10)
[X] NGO involvement (GP 14.70)                  [] Disputed territory (OP 7.60), (BP 7.60), (GP 7.60)
[ Riparian water rights (OP 7.50), (BP 750),   [( Others (provide necessary details)
(GP_7.50)                                   _______________________
F. Sustainability and Risks
1.   Sustainability: The key activities for enhancing project sustainability are:
(a)   Empowerment offarmers. The project would train farmers to apply improved and sustainable
farming practices and develop their technical and leadership skills. Farmer groups would be assisted
to: (a) prepare and implement their farmer group farm business plan and village action plan, focusing
on their specific extension needs; (b) participate in sub-district and district extension planning; (c) lead
in farmer-to-farmer extension activities; (d) organize farmers' networks to share information and
technologies; (e) carry out farmers' field investigations and field days; and (f) develop farmers' media
materials and participate in mass media campaigns.
(b)   Capacity building in extension.  The project would aim to strengthen the capacity of the
district and sub-district extension staff to provide farmer-oriented and need-based extension advice
using participatory and farming systems approaches. This would be part of the long-term institution
building goal of the Government but the project would initiate key reforms to facilitate the transition
to a more sustainable district extension system. Developing a cadre of professional extension staff
would facilitate the shift from a traditionally top-down and centralized system to a more participatory
and farmer-oriented extension system. The system has currently over 30,000 staff and a long-term and
sustained commitment of the Government would be needed to train them on the new, participatory
extension concepts, processes, and tools.



Page 21
(c)   Sustained budgetary support. One key factor for success of the project would be the provision
of sustained extension budget from district allocations (APBD II), ensuring that the district extension
budgets are maintained during implementation and after the project. There are risks that the expected
level of funding for extension would be affected by the drastic changes in the economy and possible
changes after the elections in June 1999.
2.    Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to
Objective"
*Sustained support for institutional,  M       *Include representatives of local governments and
policy and management reforms,                 support institutions in the district extension committees;
especially from local government              sign letters of exchange with intent to collaborate
officials and extension support units at      specifying joint activities and develop mechanisms for
the district level.                           contracting and/or cost-sharing.
*Linlited budgetary allocations       M       *The planned fiscal decentralization and determination of
especially from local governments             budgetary allocations at the decentralized level would
(APBD II) to support district                 provide increased funding to the districts, including
extension activities.                          support for extension.
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to
Outputs"
*Limited interest and capacity of the  M      *Include representatives of these organizations in the
private sector, non-government                 district extension committees;
organizations, and universities to             *Continue stakeholders' consultations and develop
collaborate and cost-share extension          mechanisms for contract or/and cost-sharing ofjointly
activities.                                   planned extension activities.
*Low morale of extension workers;     M        *Seek agreement of appropriate ministries and the Civil
the current incentive system is not            Service Commission, on policy guidelines to implement
responsive to developing a career for          personnel policy reforms, including a incentive system.
extension workers and a performance-           *Use farmers' satisfaction survey, by third party, to
based reward system.                           allow farmers to influence extension staff evaluation and
reward allocations.
*The district extension centers       M        *Assessments of the financial management system,
(BIPPs) are new institutions and their         control environment, and procurement capacity of
capacity for project implementation is        implementing agencies will be carried out, an FMS
limited considering that this would be        manual will be prepared, and relevant staff will be
their first Bank-funded project.               appointed and trained before implementation starts.
*Extension staff will be trained in procurement, financial
and project management procedures.
Overall Risk Rating     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3.    Possible Controversial Aspects:
(a)   Organizational issues.  Two important issues are related to the linkage of the District Centers
for Agricultural Information and Extension (BIPPs) and the district technical support service units
(Dinas Kabupaten). On one hand, the deployment of extension workers from the Dinas units to the
new district extension centers, beginning 1997, showed the need to also consolidate the district-level
technical support units. The establishment of one district agriculture Dinas Kabupaten has been
discussed within the Government, as an important option. But this would have to wait until the next
government reorganization. On the other hand, a direct linkage of the BIPP to the Dinas Kabupaten
would be critical since these units will continue to provide technical backstopping for the national
production programs, such as the national nutrition program (DPG), the national priority commodity
programs (such as Gemapalagung), and the area development projects funded by donors and the



Page 22
Government. Without this formal relationship, the BIPP may become isolated and ineffective, since
the extension workers would still see the Dinas as their affiliation.
G. Main Credit/Loan Conditions
1.   Conditions for Negotiation:
* Final draft of decree by the Minister of Agriculture to: (a) appoint the chairperson and members
of the Central Extension Guidance Committee; (b) establish the Central Project Management Unit
(PMU); (c) appoint a central Project Manager (Pimpro), Treasurer (Bendaharawan) and
competent staff in adequate numbers, at NCAE, responsible for overall coordination; and (d)
appoint the district Sub-Project Managers (Pimbagpro) and Treasurers for APBN from the ten
participating pilot districts.
* Final draft of decree by the Minister of Forestry and Estate Crops to: (a) establish a Forestry Sub-
Project Management Unit (Sub-PMU), and (b) appoint a Sub-Project Manager, Treasurer, and
competent staff in adequate numbers, at NCFECE, responsible for project coordination and
management of agro-forestry activities at the central level.
* Final draft of decree by the District Head to: (a) appoint the chairperson and members of the
District Extension Committee; (b) establish the District Project Implementation Unit (PIU); and
(c) appoint a Sub-project Manager, Treasurer, and competent staff of adequate numbers, in each
participating pilot district, responsible for project coordination and management at the district
level.
*  Draft manual for the Financial Management System and letter of NCAE to BPKP confirming the
audit arrangements.
*  Draft detailed annual work plan for FY1999/00 for each participatingpilot district and the central
component
* Detailed architectural designs and other civil works requirements for the construction of BIPP
facilities in each participating pilot district.
* Criteria for short list of firms and draft Request for Proposals for Technical Assistance under
Component 3 of the project for the technical assistance package consisting of long-term and short-
term foreign and local specialists.
2.   Conditions for Board Presentation:
* DIP budget for FYI 999/00 for each participating pilot district and for the NCAE and NCFECE.
3.   Other Conditions [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
(a)   Conditionsfor effectiveness
* Cross-effectiveness conditions between the credit and loan agreements.
* Establishment of a Central Project/Sub-Project Management Units with competent staff in
adequate numbers at NCAE and NCFECE by a Minister of Agriculture and a Minister of Forestry



Page 23
and Estate Crops decree, respectively, and establishment of a Central Extension Guidance
Committee, chaired by BAPPENAS, by a Minister of Agriculture decree.
*  Establishment of a District Project Implementation Unit withcompetent staff in adequate numbers
and a District Extension Committee, chaired by BAPPEDAKabupaten, in each participating pilot
district by a District Head's decree.
*  Issuance of a Project Financial Management System Manual acceptable to the Association/Bank.
(b) Dated credit/loan covenants:
* Set up, by October 1, 2001, an independent evaluation team; carry out an external review of the
project by such independent team by March 1, 2002, and prepare and furnish the
Association/Bank by April 1, 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities on the progress achieved in carrying out the project to that period.
*  Establish, not later than October 31, 2000, the Project Implementation Unit in each participating
partner districts in five provinces.
*  Establish, not later than October 31, 2000, a District Extension Committee, chaired by BAPPEDA
ICabupaten, in each participating partner district in five provinces.
*  Carry out mid-term review of the project by June 30, 2002, based on the evaluation report
furnished on April 1, 2002.
*  Prepare and furnish to the Association/Bank for comments, by December 31 in each year,
commencing December 31, 1999, and until completion of the project, the annual work plan and
proposed budget for the following Fiscal Year.
*  Prepare and furnish the Association/Bank for comments, by June 30 in each year, commencing
June 30, 2000, until the completion of the project, the project and district annual progress reports.
*  Provide the vehicles required by the project in accordance with a schedule agreed with the
Association/Bank.
H. Readiness for Implementation
*  The Coordinating Minister had issued a letter of guidance to the Minister of Home Affairs and
District Heads to formally organize the District Agricultural Information and Extension Centers as
district functional units in February 1999.
* The engineering design documents for the construction of BIPP facilities have been furnished to
the Bank at negotiations.
*  The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and determined to be satisfactory.



Page 24
1. Cosnpliance will iAssociatoii/Bank Policies
The project complies wiEh all applicable Association/Bank policies.
Y), 
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Dely P. Gapasin
Sector Director:               Geoey B ox
CoLuntiy Director:              Mark Baird



INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 1
Project Summary
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Level of              Narrative                    Locations/                              Key                                       Targets
Objectives             Summary                       Provinces                           Indicators
1. CAS            Increased productivity in   * 10 pilot districts in 5 provinces  * Changes in income of trained farmers in    * 5% increase in income of trained farmers in
Objectives:       participating villages and    of E. Nusa Tenggara, D.I.       participating villages from agricultural  participating villages from agricultural and
(Development     increased income of            Yogyakarta, N. Sumatra, S.      and forestry resources.                  forestry resources by project closing.
Objectives)       participating households      Sulawesi, S.E. Sulawesi       * Changes in productivity of main farming  5% increase in productivity of main farming
from their agricultural and  * 10 partner districts in 5      systems in participating villages.       systems in participating villages by project
forestry resources through   provinces of C. Java, D.I. Aceh,                                          closing.
adoption of sustainable      N. Sulawesi, S. Kalimantan,    a Trained farmers in participating villages    * At least 60% of trained farmers in participating
farming practices.           and W. Nusa Tenggara             adopted the new/improved farming         villages had adopted the new/improved farming   -U
practices.                               practices.
2. Immediate      Establishment of district   * 10 pilot districts in 5 provinces   * Establishment of an integrated   * At least 10 BIPPs are fully operational in   Il
objectives        level farmer-driven,          of E. Nusa Tenggara, D.I.       agricultural and forestry extension system  Integrated agricultural and forestry extension  cn
integrated agricultural and  Yogyakarta, N. Sumatra, S.      in each participating district.          system are fully accepted by stakeholders and
forestry extension system,   Sulawesi, S.E. Sulawesi                                                   operational in all participating districts by mid-
which take into account    * 10 partner districts in 5                                                 term; at least 20 BIPPs are fully operational in
economic, environmental,     provinces of C. Java, D.I. Aceh,                                          participating districts by project closing.
social, and gender aspects, in    N. Sulawesi, S. Kalimantan,  * Adoption of annual preparation and  * The standard procedure of annual Ssub-district
each participating district.  and W. Nusa Tenggara           implementation of sub-district and district    and district integrated agricultural and forestry
farmer-driven, integrated agricultural and  extension programs adopted formally
forestry extension programs, taking into  inprepared and implemented in at least 10
account economic, environmental, social  participating pilot districts by mid-term; and in
and gender aspects as standard           at least 20 participating districts by project
operational procedure.                   closing.
* Level of participation of farmers,     * At least 30% of participating farmer groups and
including women and youth, in farmer     villages prepared and implemented plans
group and village planning and           annually by mid-term; at least 70% of them
implementation of extension activities.  prepared and implemented plans annually by
project closing.



Level of               Narrative                      Locations/                               Key                                         Targets
Objectives              Summary                        Provinces                             Indicators
COMPONENT 1: Enhancement of farmers' capacity to participate in and to lead extension activities
I .I Revitalization   * 10 pilot districts in 5  * Annual farmer group farm      * Number of participating farmer groups    * Overall, at least 15% women and youth
of farmer groups     provinces of E. Nusa         business plans and village action    which prepared farmer group farm       participated in farmer groups and network
and organization     Tenggara, D.I. Yogyakarta,    plans prepared.                 business plans and village actions plans.  activities by mid-term; overall, at least 25%
of farmers'          N. Sumatra, S. Sulawesi,                                                                                 women and youth participated by project
networks             S.E. Sulawesi                                                                                            closing.
* 10 partner districts in 5  * Women farmers and rural youth   * Rate of participation of women and youth   * Overall at least 15% of participants in farmer
provinces of C. Java, D.I.   participated in farmer group and    in group and network activities.        group and network activities are women and
Aceh, N. Sulawesi, S.        network activities.                                                         youth by mid-term and at least 25% are wp,em
Kalimantan, and W. Nusa                                                                                  and youth by project closing.
Tenggara                   * Farmers' networks established.   * Rate of participation of farming       * At least 25% of farming households participate
households in farmer network activities.  in network activities by mid-term; at least 50%
of them participate in farmers' networks by
project closing.
* Sub-district and district      * Number of participating sub-districts and   * All participating sub-districts and districts
integrated agricultural and      districts which prepared and implemented   prepared and implemented integrated extension
forestry extension programs      integrated agricultural and forestry       programs with at least 30% participation of
prepared and implemented.        extension programs with active             farmers by mid-term; and with at least 60%         X
participation of farmers.                 participation of farmers by project closing.       co
CD
1.2 Building      * 10 pilot districts in 5     * Farmers, farmer trainers and   * Number of farmers, farmer trainers and   * About 10,000 farmers and about 1,600 farmer
capacity of          provinces of E. Nusa        technicians trained in priority   technicians trained in priority topics, by  trainers and technicians are trained by mid-term;
farmers to           Tenggara, D.I. Yogyakarta,   topics.                          sex.                                       about 35,000 farmers and 5,500 farmer trainers
participate in and   N. Sumatra, S. Sulawesi, S.E                                                                             and technicians are trained by project closing.
to lead extension    Sulawesi                   * Women farmers and youth        * Rate of participation of women and youth   * Overall, at least 25% of farmers trained are
activities         * 10 partner districts in 5    trained.                         in farmers' training program.              women and youth by mid-term; this rate is was
provinces of C. Java, D.I.                                                                               maintained up to project closing.
Aceh, N. Sulawesi, S.
Kalimantan, and W. Nusa
Tenggara



Level of              Narrative                     Locations/                             Key                                        Targets
Objectives             Summary                       Provinces                           Indicators
1.3 Promotion of   * 10 pilot districts in 5  * Participatory extension methods    Number of participatory extension   * At least 2 participatory extension approaches are
participatory       provinces of E. Nusa        tested, promoted, and adopted.  approaches tested, promoted and adopted  tested and at least I successful approach
extension methods    Tenggara, D.I.                                            in the participating districts.           promoted in each participating district by mid-
and provision of    Yogyakarta, N. Sumatra,                                                                              term; at least 3 approaches are tested and at least
media and           S. Sulawesi, S.E. Sulawesi                                                                           I approach adopted by project closing.
technology support * 10 partner districts in 5  * Partnerships developed with  * Percentage of extension activities    * At least 10% of extension activities are carried
provinces of C. Java, D.I.  private sector entities, NGOs,  implemented in partnership with non-     out in partnership with non-government entities
Aceh, N. Sulawesi, S.      universities, and farmers'       govemment entities (private sector       by mid-term; at lcast 20% are carried out with
Kalimantan, and W. Nusa    organizations.                   entities, NGOs, universities, farmers'  these partners by project closing.
Tcnggara                                                    organizations).
* Appropriate combination of    * Types and relevance of media materials    * Appropriate combination of media materials in
media materials in priority topics   in priority topics prepared, mass   at least 5 priority topics prepared, mass
prepared, mass produced, and    produced, and distributed by each        produced, and distributed by each participating
distributed.                    participating BIPP.                      BIPP by mid-term; and in at least 10 priority
topics by each participating BIPP by project
closing.
* Participatory mass media      * Number of problem-based participatory  * At least 2 problem-based participatory mass
awareness campaigns carried out.  mass media awareness campaigns in each  media awareness campaigns carried out in each
participating district.                  participating district by mid-term; at least 4  -X
media campaigns in each participating district
____________________________________________________________ by project_closing.                        C
COMPONENT 2: Strengthening the district extension system                                                                                                                 4
2.1 Introduction of * 10 pilot districts in 5  * Participating BIPPs with     * Number of BIPPs provided with facilities,  * At least 10 BIPPs are fully operational,
institutional and   provinces of E. Nusa        facilities, equipment and       equipped, and operational.               equipped and staff with competent personnel by
management          Tenggara, D.I. Yogyakarta,   competent staff.                                                        mid-term; 20 BIPPs are operational, equipped
reforms at the      N. Sumatra, S. Sulawesi,                                                                             and staffed with competent personnel by project
district level      S.E. Sulawesi                                                                                        closing.
* 10 partner districts in 5  * Participatory processes and  * Participatory processes and procedures  . At least 10 participating BIPPs adopted
provinces of C. Java, D.l.  procedures, including financial    incorporated in BIPP's operating      participatory processes and procedures by mid-
Aceh, N. Sulawesi, S.      management, information          procedures.                              term; 20 participating BIPPs adopted
Kalimantan, and W. Nusa    management, planning,                                                     participatory processes and procedures by
Tenggara                   monitoring and evaluation,                                                project closing.
adopted.



Level of              Narrative                     Locations/                              Key                                        Targets
Objectives             Summary                        Provinces                           Indicators
2.2 Building the    * 10 pilot districts in5  * Human resources development   * HRD plan preparation and HRIS            * HRD plan prepared and HRIS developed in at
capacity of         provinces of E. Nusa        (HRD) plan and human             development and implementation.           least 10 participating pilot districts by mid-term;
extension staff in  Tenggara, D.I. Yogyakarta,   resources information system                                              HRD plans implemented and HRIS reviewed,
the participating   N. Sumatra, S. Sulawesi,    (HRIS) developed and                                                       updated, and utilized by project closing.
districts           S.E. Sulawesi               implemented.
* 10 partner districts in 5  * Extension managers, extension   * Number of extension managers, extension   * All extension managers, about 2,000 extension
provinces of C. Java, DI.   workers and support staff       workers and local officials trained in    workers and support staff, and about 150 local
Aceh, N. Sulawesi, S.       trained, including women staff.  priority topics by sex.                  officials trained, including women, by mid-
Kalimantan, and W. Nusa                                                                               term; about 5,000 extension workers and
Tenggara                                                                                              support staff and about 300 local officials are
trained by project closing.
Improved annual participatory    * Use of improved annual participatory  * At least 50% of participating sub-districts in
performance evaluation system   performance evaluation systemn for        participating pilot districts used improved
developed and implemented.      extension staff to reward outstanding     annual participatory performance evaluation
performers.                              system involving farmers by mid-term; at least
80% of participating sub-districts in
participating pilot districts used improved
evaluation system by project closing.
2.3 Strengthening   * 10 pilot districts in 5  * District monitoring and       * Modest and practical monitoring and     . District MES operational and database is actual
the extension       provinces of E. Nusa        evaluation system (MES)          evaluation system operational; data are in    use by mid-term; MES reviewed, updated and
support and         Tenggara, D.I. Yogyakarta,    developed and maintained.      actual use in decision making, planning   utilized up to project closing.
delivery systems in   N. Sumatra, S. Sulawesi,                                   and reporting.                                                                           CD
participating       S.E. Sulawesi             . District data centers such as the   * Establishment and actual utilization of the  * District MIS, FITPS) and library in 10
districts         * 10 partner districts in 5   management information system    district data centers and library by      participating pilot districts are operational and in
provinces of C. Java, D.I.  (MIS), the farmers' information  extension staff, local planners, farmers,  actual use by extension staff, local planners, and
Aceh, N. Sulawesi, S.       and technology promotion        and other stakeholders.                   farmers by mid-tern; the data centers are
Kalimantan, and W. Nusa     system (FITPS) and libraries                                              reviewed, updated and utilized up to the project
Tenggara                    developed and maintained.                                                 closing.
COMPONENT 3: Provision of central extension policy and project management support
3.1 Improvement   * NCAE and NCFECE           - Extension policy reviews       * Number of extension policy reviews      * At least 2 policy reviews carried out by mid-
of extension                                    carried out.                     carried out.                             term; at least four policy reviews carried out by
policy and                                                                                                                 project closing.
conduct of special                            * Adopted policy                 * Adoption of main policy                 * At least I policy recommendation adopted by
studies                                         recommendations.                 recommendations.                          mid-term; at least 3 policy recommendations
adopted by project closing.
* Priority studies carried out.  * Number of selected priority studies    * At least 3 priority studies carricd out by mid-
carried out.                             term; at least 6 priority studies carried out by
project closing.



Level of              Narrative                     Locations/                             Key                                       Targets
Objectives             Summary                       Provinces                           Indicators
3.2 Strengthening   * NCAE and NCFECE         * MIS and MES databases         * Actual utilization of central MIS and  * Central MIS and MES fully operational and data
the central                                     developed and maintained.       MES data in extension planning and       are in actual use by mid-term; central MIS and
extension support                                                               decision making.                         MES reviewed, updated and utilized up to
systems                                                                                                                  project closing.
* Trained extension managers    c Number of extension managers and       * About 105 extension managers and central level
and central level extension     central level staff who satisfactorily   staff completed non-degree training by mid-
staff.                          completed degree and non-degree          term; at least 12 staff completed degree training
training.                                and about 210 managers and central level
extension staff trained by project closing.
* Training curricula and modules   * Development and utilization of training  * At least 5 training curricula and modules in
in priority topics prepared and  curricula and modules in priority topics.  priority topics are prepared and utilized by mid-
utilized.                                                               term; at least 10 curricula and modules in
priority topics are prepared and utilized by
project closing.
3.3 Provision of    * NCAE and NCFECE         * Technical assistance services  * Utilization of consultants' time and  * About 160 staff months of consultants' time
technical                                       provided.                       satisfaction rating of the consultants'  utilized by mid-term; about 540 staff months of
assistance and                                                                 technical advice by users.                consultants' time utilized by project closing;
project                                                                                                                  80% satisfaction rate with consultants' technical
management                                                                                                               advice by users.
support                                       * Project management manuals,    * Effectiveness of project management and   * At least 50% of project activities are
work plans and budget, and      coordination.                            satisfactorily implemented by mid-term; at least  m
progress reports.                                                        80% of project activities are satisfactorily     CD
implemented by project closing.                  M



Page 30
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 2
Project Description
Project Overview
Vision for extension and strategy for implementation. The vision for extension in Indonesia
is that most farmers who want it, will have access to information and services relevant to the efficient
operation and sustainable development of their enterprises. Consistent with the Government's recent
policy thrust towards increased decentralization, outsourcing, and a redefinition of its role in the rural
sector, the public extension service would withdraw its support where it is not needed or where the
private sector and other providers can fulfill it. The evolution of the extension service would be
towards public financing and private sector provision, and ultimately to private financing and private
provision. Existing commercial farmers would be on the cutting edge of the change while poorer and
subsistence farmers might require government-financed extension services over a longer period of
time while they develop. The project would initiate the process by enhancing the capacity of farmers
to participate in and to lead extension activities and by strengthening the capacity of the district
extension system. The Government has to clearly define its implementation strategy to direct the
extension system towards achieving this vision. A prerequisite for success would be to involve
farmers and other stakeholders by giving them the opportunity to express their expectation from
extension and how they would like it to operate. Different groups of farmers would require different
interventions based on their specific situation. There are currently about 38,000 agricultural and 6,000
forestry extension workers (NCAE, 1998) serving the needs of about 38 million farmers in Indonesia.
The streamlining of public extension agencies would result to more staff available. The overall
number of extension staff could be reduced through attrition, taking the social factor into
consideration. It would also be important for the Government to decide the proportion of farmers it
can afford to reach. The ratios should be indicative and should not drive the extension budget
allocations. The changes would have to be planned, organized, and programmed to allow the
Government to gradually divest itself while reaching farmers through less demanding and less costly
means such as mass media. Having fewer extension workers would markedly improve the conditions
for the remaining staff. It would eventually result to better-motivated, well-equipped, and properly
trained cadre of extension workers.
The project would be implemented following a two-step strategy. The initial step (beginning
November 1, 1999) will involve ten pilot districts in five provinces (East Nusa Tenggara, D.I.
Yogyakarta, North Sumatra, South Sulawesi, South East Sulawesi). After 12 months, ten partner
districts in five provinces (Central Java, D.I. Aceh, North Sulawesi, South Kalimantan, West Nusa
Tenggara) will fully participate in the project. Intensive monitoring would be carried out with active
the participation of farmers. With satisfactory implementation progress, determined by an external
evaluation team upon completion of the second year, a feasibility study may be carried out for a
follow-up replication phase, as part of this project.
Objectives and Components.   The objective of the project is to assist the Borrower in
enhancing farmers' capacity to participate in extension activitiesand strengthening the capacity of the
district-level integrated agricultural and forestry extension systemwhich would promote economically
feasible, environmentally sustainable, and socially acceptable farming practices and increased farmers'
income. There are two main components to be implemented at the district level: (1) enhancement of
farmers' capacity to participate in and to lead extension activities to ensure that extension services
would be based on their needs and problems, and (2) strengthening the capacity of district-level
extension system to address farmers' needs, constraints, and priorities. A small central component



Page 31
would aim to improve extension policy analysis, enhance awareness at all levels, and ensure sustained
project management support and overall coordination.
Component 1. Enhancement of Farmers' Capacity to Participate in and to Lead Extension
Activities
Objective and Sub-components: Component 1 would aim to empower farmers to identify their own
farming priorities and extension needs and to participate in the integrated extension program at the
sub-district and district levels. The program would consider the special needs of women farmers and
rural youth. The project would support the following:
(a)  Revitalization of farmer groups and organization of farmers' networks.  Inactive farmer
groups in the participating villages would be identified and revitalized and farmers' networks would
be organized, with separate and/or mixed membership of men, women, and rural youth. Village
appraisals would be carried out using participatory tools, such as participatory rural appraisal (PRA),
including social and gender analyses focusing on the special needs of women farmers and rural youth.
Farmer groups would prepare farm business plans which would be aggregated into village action plans
identifying farmers' priority extension needs. These plans would be integrated into the sub-district
extension program and eventually into the district extension program, with farmers and other
stakeholders participating in planning at different levels. Farmer-managed activities would be
promoted, including farmer field investigations, farmer technical meetings, field days, and farmer
media materials production and dissemination. Fanners' networks would be established to promote
farmer-to-farmer sharing of information, as means to access production inputs and technology, credits,
and markets. Farmers will be actively involved in the monitoring of the implementation of extension
program at the village, sub-district and district levels.
(b)  Building capacity offarmers to participate in and to lead extension activities. The capacity of
farmers in the project areas would be strengthened to increase their production, improve adoption of
technologies, improve marketing capacity and allow them to actively participate in village, sub-
district, and district extension activities. Farmers, farmer trainers, and farmer technicians would
receive training in technical and skill-building topics of their own choice to support their production,
post-production, marketing activities and group and network activities. Apprenticeship opportunities
would be provided to farmer groups, such as those available in the private sector. Arrangements will
be made for farmers to make educational visits to farmers in other areas which have useful agricultural
or agro-forestry achievements to share with other farmers.
(c)  Promotion of participatory extension methods and provision of media and technology
support.  During village appraisals, the status of technologies and information needs would be
determined.  Technology menus would be identified to intensify farmer-led on-farm  testing,
demonstrations, and promotion of technologies. Various participatory and need-based extension
approaches would be tested and the successful ones would be mainstreamed in the participating
villages and sub-districts. These methods are in parallel in irrigated areas to those being introduced
under the WATSAL. Inter-disciplinary field extension teams in participating sub-districts would be
established to provide technical advice to farmer groups and farmers' networks. Farmer-to-farmer
extension modality would be used, where applicable, and client-oriented activities would be carried
out to address extension needs of women farmers and rural youth. The BIPPs would form
partnerships with private sector entities, non-government organizations, universities, and farmers'
organizations, to improve the delivery of extension support services. Information of interest to
farmers would be disseminated through printed, visual and audio media, and through strategic and
participatory mass media awareness campaigns on priority topics identified by farmers to intensify
information and technology promotion. Surveys would be carried out to assess the effectiveness of the



Page 32
media materials and farmers' attitudes and knowledge of the extension program. Alternative media
forum, such as a community audio tower system, would be piloted in selected villages. Indigenous
knowledge of farmers will be documented and disseminated through the district extension system.
Financing: The project would finance: (a) PRA and KAP surveys, including social and gender
analyses; (b) village, sub-district and district planning and technical meetings; (c) farner groups and
network activities; (d) training needs assessment and training of farmers, farmer trainers, and farmer
technicians; (e) apprenticeships and farmers' visits; (f) farmer-led on-farm technology trials and
demonstrations; (g) farmers' field investigations and field days; (h) documentation of indigenous
knowledge; (i) procurement of media equipment, materials and support for media campaigns; (j)
community audio tower systems' maintenance; (j) farmers' surveys and focus group meetings; (k)
field extension teams' operational support; and (1) private sector, NGOs, farmers' organization, and
university contracts.
Component 2. Strengthening the District Extension System
Objective and Sub-component: Component 2, which would focus on strengthening the extension
system, would aim to introduce reformns into the system and build capacity of extension staff. The
strategy of implementation by provinces, as described under Component I above, would be followed.
Institutional and management reforms would be introduced and the linkages of the district extension
system to other organizations would be strengthened, especially to the forestry and estate crops
extension, the research and technology assessment institutes, and the training centers. The project
would support the following:
(a)  Introduction of institutional and management reforms at the district level. Comprehensive
institutional and management changes would be introduced in the newly formed integrated district
information and extension center (BIPP). The linkage of the BIPP to the Dinas PKT, where the
forestry and estate crops extension unit is located, would be strengthened to ensure joint planning and
implementation of the integrated agricultural and forestry extension program. Participatory extension
planning, personnel management, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation capabilities
of the BIPPs will be improved. The facilities of the BIPPs and BPPs would be upgraded, including the
construction of new facilities, rehabilitation of existing facilities, and provision of equipment.
Partnerships with various support institutions would be established by the BIPPs, with the private
sector entities, non-government organizations, and universities, to promote collaboration in research
and technology development, training, information and its dissemination, and the provision of
technical advice.
(b)   Building the capacity of extension staff in the participating districts.  Human resources
assessment would be carried out as the basis for the preparation and implementation of a human
resources development plan for the district and sub-district extension staff, includinga review of the
job descriptions of staff, inventory of skills and personnel, and the incentives of extension staff.
Training would be provided for extension managers, extension workers, and support staff to ensure
that the skills and expertise needed to work with farmers using participatory approaches and to
successfully implement an integrated extension program would be successfully maintained at the
district level. An improved reward program for extension staff would be implemented which would
include farmers' satisfaction surveys to evaluate the performance of field extension workers and a
self-assessment instrument.
(c)   Strengthening the extension support and delivery systems in participating districts.  A
farmers' information and technology promotion service (FITPS) at the BIPP would be established and
maintained to improve farmers' access to information about agricultural and forestry technologies,



Page 33
inputs, credit, markets, and farmers' networks activities. A modest and practical management
information system (MIS) and monitoring and evaluation system (MES) would also be established
and maintained to support extension activities and project implementation. Experts teams will be
established at the BIPPs to support the field extension teams at the sub-district level. Each
participating BIPP would also develop its library and a soil analyses support for farmers in
collaboration with the BPTPs. Project management capabilities of the BIPPswould be strengthened in
planning, monitoring and evaluation, and field supervision.
Financing: The project would finance the (a) introduction of participatory management processes
and tools; (b) construction/rehabilitation of BIPP and BPP facilities; (c) procurement of equipment,
fumniture, computers, books, and  materials and supplies; (d) stakeholders' consultations and
awareness activities; (e) training needs assessment study and HRD planning; (f) training of managers,
extension workers, and support staff and exchange visits; (g) soil service support for farmers'
maintenance; (g) farmers' satisfaction surveys; (h) MIS, MES and FITPS maintenance; (i) annual
review and planning meetings, monitoring workshops, technical meetings and seminars; (j) private
sector, NGOs, university, and farmers' organizations contracts; and (k) district project management
operational support.
Component 3. Provision of Central Extension Policy and Project Management Support
Objective and Sub-components:  Component 3 would aim to strengthen the national extension
policy capability and the central extension support systems. NCAE and NCFECE staff and specialists
from the technical assistance team would provide backstopping to the BIPPs and the farmer groups
and farmers' networks. The project would support the following:
(a)  Improvement of extension policy and conduct of special studies. Policy reviews would be
carried out by the national extension centers in collaboration with other institutions as needed.
Consultations would be carried out to enhance public awareness of new extension policies with the
participation of policy makers at all levels, local govemment officials, extension staff, and other
stakeholders. Special studies would be carried out on selected priority topics, including benchmark
surveys, periodic evaluations of the field impact of the new extension methods, and social and gender
studies. Priority topics may be identified during implementation.
(b)  Strengthening the central extension support systems. The current monitoring and evaluation
capability of the NCAE and NCFECE staff would be strengthened by the provision of technical
assistance and training of staff. The management information system (MIS) at NCAE and NCFECE
would be strengthened through training of staff and provision of equipment. Linkages would be
established to other databases. Central and district extension staff will undergo degree and non-degree
training on identified priority topics. The quality and relevance of the training programs for farmers
and extension staff at the district level would be improved by the development and updating of
training curricula and modules.
(c)  Provision of technical assistance and project management support. Technical assistance
would be provided to the district and central extension units by a team of foreign and local specialists.
The project management and coordination capabilities of the central project management unit at
NCAE and NCFECE would be strengthened through the provision of technical assistance, the training
of staff on project management, financial management and procurement procedures, and the provision
of equipment, materials and vehicles.
Financing:  The project would finance (a) policy reviews and special studies; (b) stakeholders'
dialogues and awareness activities; (c) technical workshops and planning meetings; (d) MIS and MES



Page 34
systems' maintenance; (e) degree and non-degree training of central and district extension staff; (f
technical assistance service contracts; (g) procurement of equipment, computers, books and materials;
(h) development of training curricula and modules; and (i) central project management operational
support.



Page 35
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                    Local         Foreign        Total
----------     US $ million--------------------
1. Enhancement of farmers' capacity to             5.98           0.10          6.08
participate in and to lead extension activities
2. Strengthening the district extension system     8.21           0.95          9.16
3. Provision of central extension policy and       2.92           0.83           3.75
project management support
Total Baseline Cost                               17.11            1.88         18.99
Physical Contingencies                           0              0             0
Price Contingencies                              4.50           1.96          4.58
Total Project Cost                                21.61           1.96         23.57



Page 36
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 4
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
For projects like DAFEP, where many of their principal benefits are not easily quantified in
monetary terms, a straightforward cost-benefit assessment to get at economic rates of return can be a
very demanding, if not also contentious, effort. To skirt this issue, this economic analysis of DAFEP
uses a cost effectiveness approach to evaluate the financial and economic viability of this venture.
This analysis determines what incremental yield increases (for the key cropping systems in areas
targeted for extension activities) are required to recoup fully the financial and economic costs of the
Project investments in each of the participating districts, given available rates of return on alternative
uses of these provided resources. The analysis was carried out for each district in their current prices,
with all values expressed in US dollars.
Project Benefits
As is common with analysis of this kind, there are a number of important assumptions that bear
on the results. By and large, these are conservative assumptions that relate mainly to future outcomes.
The main assumptions are that:
(a)  agricultural yield growth from the project takes place in the first four years, after which
there are no additional yield gains from the project, i.e., the full effects of the project (e.g.,
dissemination of new technologies) on cultivation practices and yields would have taken
place;
(b)  there is no new land brought under cultivation from the project, even though this is
possible in most districts where land is not a major constraint as yet, or where existing
forest land can be brought into sustainable agricultural production;
(c)  any incremental increase in crop output incurs production/marketing costs, and these costs
decrease the returns to the Project investments.
For all participating districts, the main economic/financial benefits from theproject are assumed
to come from (1) increased yields in the key cropping systems due to project-induced factors such as
the introduction of new technologies and better crop management and the increase in the coverage of
extension to reach more farmers, particularly the many inhabitants of forest buffer zones who have
little, if any, access to agricultural extension; (2) some increases in area harvested with a decline in
agricultural land left to fallow; (3) a reduction in crop losses from better harvest/storage practices and
from fewer pest/disease outbreaks; (4) the reduction in some input costs (e.g., pesticide use and
fertilizers) with the integration of sustainable farm practices with existing conditions (pest incidence,
soil nutrient needs); (5) higher unit prices of certain commodities (e.g., vegetables, cattle, etc.) from
production of higher quality outputs and improved marketing channels.
Although one of the main objectives of the project is to experiment with and to learn from
alternative approaches for providing extension services to farmers, the cost-effectiveness analysis
simply regards these valuable lessons as additional Project benefits which, for now, cannot be
quantified. Thus, outside of the crop yield increases that DAFEP will engender, no other measurable
benefits are considered explicitly in this economic assessment. Important, albeit left-out, Project
benefits include, inter alia: (1) promotion of environmentally sustainable practices; (2) empowerment



Page 37
of farmers and increased awareness, participation and self-reliance; (3) motivation and training of
entire district-level BIPP structure on farming systems approaches to extension; (4) assistance towards
institutional development of national extension system; (5) promotion of gender-sensitive approaches
to development; (6) unification of agriculture and forestry extension services, (7) various spillover
effects of effective practices to other districts/provinces.
Project Beneficiaries
The largest benefits will accrue to farmers, fishers and forest dwellers in these Project areas
(desas and kecamatans) whose extension needs are not addressed fully or effectively, if at all, by the
current system. But non-pilot area farmers in each of the ten participating pilot districts will benefit as
well, since the enhanced facilities of the BIPP, including the training of all extension workers in the
district, will improve the normal provision of extension services to these non-pilot areas of the
kabuipaten. Additionally, residents of other neighboring districts may benefit from spillover effects,
particularly with the introduction of new, replicable technologies.  All rural residents in the
participating districts are likely to benefit from this project.
Project Costs
Other than the basic costs of the project for the first four years totaling US$ 23.57 million, the
base analysis assumes that: (i) all Project costs are in addition to, rather than in lieu of, existing
spending for agricultural extension in the ten districts; (ii) on-farm costs increase due to a rise in the
quantity and quality of most inputs (including labor) in support of new technology (the assumption for
the base case is that for each cropping system, on-farm costs, except for pesticides, rise in proportion
to the increase in yields; (iii) afterProject completion, GOI (central and district) resources are used to
support real recurrent costs over the period of analysis.
Economic/Financial Analysis
For the base case, additional assumptions (over the 20-year period of analysis) are that: (i) the
official exchange rate depreciates steadily at 5% per annum from the current level of Rp.7,500/US$1;
(ii) the recurrent costs of all BIPPs and BPPs remain fully funded at gradually increasing current levels
(constant in real terms); (iii) annual inflation remains steady at 10%; and (iv) the competitive discount
rate is 20%. Also, for the economic analysis, most tradeables are border priced in US dollars, and
non-tradeables (including labor) are priced locally but converted to US dollars at the official exchange
rate.
The table below shows the local agricultural yield increases, over a five-year period, that are
necessary to fully recoup DAFEP investments in each of the main participating districts. As shown
for both economic and financial assessments, the yield-growth requirements are very small and easily
attainable. For the economic (and financial) analysis, these range from 0.15%  (0.16%) forMaros to
0.80% (0.80%) for Kulon Progo and Bantol (D.I. Yogyakarta). For the entire project, which includes
DAFEP investments in central government (Jakarta-based) activities, the required aggregate (of the 10
participating districts) agricultural yield growth is only 0.24% (0.29%) over five years.



Page 38
Required 5-Year growth rates in the total value of the main agricultural outputs to fully
recoup DAFEP investments by district, economic vs. financial prices.
District            Economic (in percent)      Financial (in percent)
Simalungun                          0.25                       0.32
Labuhan Batu                        0.22                       0.22
Gowa                                0.40                       0.52
Maros                               0.15                       0.16
Kendari                             0.53                       0.54
Kolaka                              0.36                       0.38
Kupang                              0.46                       0.51
TTS                                 0.32                       0.62
Kulon Progo                         0.80                       0.80
Bantul                              0.79                       0.77
DAFEP                               0.24                       0.29
The very sharp devaluation of the rupiah have benefited local agriculture. But the clearly
favorable results of the above cost-effectiveness analysis have more to do with the very small size of
the proposed DAFEP investments relative to the large district-level agricultural outputs these
investments intend to boost. Indeed, these positive outcomes are also fairly robust. In several
scenario simulations (not reported here), the required district-level growth rates in agricultural outputs
over the same initial five-year period hardly exceed 1.0%, even if all or any combination of
assumptions (i) to (iv) above diverged by a 25% margin from their base levels.
Fiscal Impact
The central and district governments will finance US$ 5.57 million equivalent of total Project
expenses. These costs, which are mainly for staff, transport, and other day-to-day expenses, are small
and thus, not a heavy burden for the district governments. Total districts' Project and extension costs
and their ratios to respective district APBD II budgets are as follows:
Fiscal burden of DAFEP by district
District       Total Extension    Additional DAFEP    Total APBD H         Ratio (%)
Budget (APBD II)*   Cost to APBD II**      FY1997/98
Siinalungun           1,184,347             154,020           99,362,000           1.62
Labuhan Batu            622,257             118,600           48,874,000           1.68
Gowa                    481,731             119,839           58,013,000           1.32
Maros                   521,481             133,206           39,791,000           1.95
Kendari               1,094,800             152,419           65,944,000           2.25
Kolaka                  709,552             152,419           65,944,00            1.76
Kupang                  413,691             123,840           52,242,000           1.29
TTS                     948,763             157,600           54,255,000           1.34
KulonProgo            1,074,018             125,500           65,789,861           1.80
Bantul                  948,763             110,200           81,383,523           1.32
*    Average of two years
**   Average of three years
The District Governments have agreed to provide post-project budgets to sustain support for
Project initiatives in the individual districts after Year 2004. Some of these expenses may be retrieved
from charging fees for extension services, but this option has not yet been factored in determining the
net fiscal burden to the districts. In addition, a new nationwide fuel tax of 5% will be implemented
from April 1, 1998. Because 70% of revenues from this tax will go to the District Governments, this
tax raises the capacity of local governments to fund their own priority activities.



Page 39
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 5
Financial Summary
(in US$ million)
Years Ending 2004
(Indicate currency, units and base year)
Implementation Period           Operational Period
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4
Project Costs
Investment Costs   3.65      8.14    6.46        4.65
Recurrent Costs    0.01      0.21    0.22        0.22
Total             3.66       8.35     6.68       4.87
Financing Sources
IBRD/IDA          3.10       5.80    5.30        3.80
Co-financiers
Government        0.56       2.55     1.38       1.07
(APBN or
APBD II)
User Fees/
Beneficiaries
Total             3.66       8.35   6.68         4.87
Note: It is expected that the level of recurrent costs will be maintained particularly by the local
government (district) after Project implementation.



Page 40
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement of works and goods will follow the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995, which was revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999. Standard Bidding Documents will be used for all Bank-
financed procurement. Employment of consultants and the format for consultants' contracts will
be based on the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" of January 1997, which was revised in September 1997 and January 1999, and on
Standard Request for Proposal guidelines dated July 1997 and revised in April 1998. Contracts
for civil works are expected to be small in size and dispersed in ten districts. These will be
contracted through national competitive bidding (NCB) and small works procedures. The GOI
will finance all vehicles from the government development budget. Similar equipment, such as
computers and audio-visual equipment, will be packaged together and procured through NCB
procedures. Other equipment and furniture will be small in scale and generally procured through
national shopping procedures. In national shopping, quotations from three suppliers would be
needed indicating quantities, time, and place of delivery. The procurement methods to be used
for the project are indicated in Table A of Annex 6.
An assessment of the government procurement procedures (Keppres) and procurement
capacity of the implementing agencies was carried out by a procurement specialist from the
Bank's Resident Mission in Jakarta. The assessment concludes that: (1) in general, the Keppres
requirements follow the Bank Guidelines for National Competitive Bidding (NCB). However,
some areas of the Keppres for NCB procedures are not in line with the Bank Guidelines; (2) the
key personnel from the implementing agencies (NCAE and NCFECE in Jakarta and the BIPPs in
the districts) have limited experience with the Bank's procurement procedures, (3) the overall risk
assessment of this Project is high, and (4) the general procurement environment is considered as
marginally satisfactory and some improvement are necessary.
Deficiencies in the Government's NCB procedures would be resolved through a
Supplemental Letter. Some weaknesses in the Project structure and the capability of the agencies
to implement procurement have also been identified and an action plan was prepared to solve
these problems including: (a) appointment of qualified procurement officers at the central and
district levels, (b) training of Project staff on basic procurement and the Bank procurement
procedures and requirements; and (c) hiring of a Financial and Procurement Specialist under the
technical assistance package to provide support to the Project staff during implementation, and
(d) development of clear and well defined implementation guidelines (Juklak/Juknis) with prior
no objection by the Bank. The qualifications of the Procurement Officer/Coordinator at the PMU
(central level) were agreed during negotiations, including a university degree (SI), a Grade IIa,
and at least one year work experience in procurement procedures. The staff from NCAE will
have priority in the selection process.
1.   Procurement methods (Table A).
(a)  Civil works (US$ 1.86 million).   Civil works for the construction of BIPPs and
rehabilitation of BPPs are expected to be relatively small and would be widely dispersed over ten
districts. Therefore, they would be procured under NCB procedures.



Page 41
(b)  Goods (US$ 2.22 million). This category includes equipment (except vehicles), furniture,
books, and media production to be procured by NCAE and BIPPs for their respective
components. Contracts for goods at or above US$ 10,000 equivalent will be procured through
NCB procedures, and contracts of less than US$ 10,000 equivalent through national shopping
procedures (up to US$ 1,880,000 2 equivalent in aggregate). For efficiency and compatibility,
procurement of certain similar equipment, such as computers and audio-visual equipment, will be
packaged together in one package carried out by the central PMU, using NCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
(c)   Training and extension support. (US$11.10 million). Training for farmers, extension
workers, and other related agencies' staff will be conducted following acceptable Government
procedures, by districts and national implementing units. Such procedures will be clearly defined
in the Juklak/Juknis with prior no objection from the Bank.
(d)  Farmer-managed activities (US$ 1.85 million). The activities involve procurement of
agricultural inputs through local shopping procedures, and expenditures for per diem and labor
wages for farmers, researchers, and extension workers. The mechanism to fund these activities is
a modification of the scheme used by KDP and will also be clearly defined in the Juklak/Juknis
(e) Consultants' services and studies (US$ 2.50 million). To support the implementation of
the project, a team of consultants will be recruited for Capacity Building/Implementation Support
located in Jakarta, Medan (North Sumatra), Ujung Pandang (South Sulawesi), Kendari (South
East Sulawesi), and Kupang (East Nusa Tenggara). Consultants will be selected following
quality and cost-based selection (QCBS) procedures following the September 1997 and January
1999 revised Bank Guidelines. All consulting assignments over US$ 200,000 equivalent must be
advertised in Development Business. Special studies will be contracted based on competitive
selection procedures to private institutions. Such procedures would include selection based on
consultants' qualifications, selection of individual consultants, and selection of service delivery
contractors, acceptable to the Bank.
(f)  Incremental operating costs (US$ 2.51 million). This includes expenditures for central
and district-level Project management, coordination, and monitoring, Project start-up,
consultation and planning meetings, policy analysis and dialogue, and strengthening MIS and
M&E systems which are incremental to the routine expenditures. These expenditures will follow
Government procedures acceptable to the Bank, which are defined in the Juklak/Juknis.
(g) Vehicles (US$ 0.87 million). As in other Bank-supported Projects in Indonesia, the GOI
will provide all the vehicles (cars and motorcycles) for theproject, using reserve procurement, in
accordance with the schedule agreed with the Bank during negotiations
(h)  Operations and maintenance (US$ 0.66 million). The expenditures for routine operations
and maintenance of the facilities will be financed 100% by GOI.
2.   Prior review thresholds (Table B). Table B of this Annex 6 indicates the thresholds for
prior review. Prior review for selection of consultants will follow the Bank's Guidelines of
January 1997 (revised in September 1997 and January 1999), which requires contracts for
consulting firms valued at or above US$ 100,000 equivalent and contracts with individuals at or
above US$ 50,000 equivalent will be subject to prior review. This means that all consultants'
contracts will be subject to prior review.
Contracts for goods and civil works at or above US$ 100,000 equivalent will be subject to
prior review. Despite the above thresholds, however, the first three contracts for goods and civil



Page 42
works by each implementing unit, regardless of their value, will be subject to prior review by the
Bank. All civil works and goods will be procured through NCB procedures, except those for
goods which are eligible for National Shopping, e.g., individual contracts with a value of less
than US$ 10,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate of US$ 1,880,000 equivalent.
To ensure farmer-oriented extension activities, the training, extension and farmer-managed
activities will be based on the results of Participatory Rapid Appraisal (PRA) activities in the
villages. Results of the PRAs and the plans for the training, extension and farmer-managed
activities shall be furnished to Bank for review and approval. The expenditures for these activities
as well as the incremental Project costs should follow procedures which should be clearly defined
in the Juklak/Juknis, acceptable to the Bank.
With the above thresholds, a total of about 70% of the total procurement value for
consultants' contracts, civil works, goods, and training, extension and farmer-managed activities
(excluding incremental Project costs) will be subject to prior review.
3.   Ex-Post Review. Regular ex-post review of contracts, including training, extension
support, and farmer-managed activities not subject to prior review (expenditures under SOE
procedures) will be carried out quarterly, usually during and in between supervision missions, on
5-10% samples basis.
4.   Procurement plan (Table D). The procurement plan for the project is attached as Table
D of this Annex 6. Procurement plan for each activity in the procurement process at central and
district levels are presented separately in the form of Gantt chart and have been included in the
Project Implementation Plan.
Disbursement
1.   Allocation of credit/loan proceeds. The allocation of credit/loan proceeds is attached as
Table C of this Annex 6. Annual works plan and the associated budgets from the credit/loan and
APBN would be provided to the central PMU at NCAE, the Sub-PMIU at NCFECE, and to the
district PIUs at the BIPPs through the Agriculture Sectoral DIP budget approved by the MOF and
BAPPENAS. The activities funded by the local government funds will be provided through the
APBD II approved by the respective District Heads (Bupati). Credit/Loan funds will not be used
for: (a) salary increases related to promotion or rewards for extension workers; (b) provision of
inputs for production by farmers except those related to field experiments and demonstrations;
and (c) procurement of vehicles.
The Pimpro at the central PMU/Sub-PMU and the Pimbagpros at the district PIUs will be
responsible for authorizing the Project expenditures in accordance with the DIP budgets
following existing GOI procedures. The Pimpro/Pimbagpros will submit their payment requests
for the credit/loan and APBN funded activities to the nearby MOF treasurers (KPKNs) who will
then issue payment remittance orders (SPM) to Bank Indonesia branch office to credit suppliers'
or contractors' accounts at their respective banks. These payments will then be directly debited to
the Project's Special Account at Bank Indonesia's head office in Jakarta. For smaller amount of
non-contracted expenditures and self managed activities (swakelola) by the PMU/Sub-
PMU/PIUs, a cash advance will be provided by the KPKN to the PMU/Sub-PMU/PIUs treasurer.
Each month, or whenever required, the PMl/Sub-PMU/PIUs will have to account their
expenditures and report to the KPKNs who will replenish the PMU/Sub-PMNU/PIUs accounts.
Based on the PMU/Sub-PMUlPIUs accountability reports, supported by appropriate
documentation's, the KPKN will reimburse itself from the Project's Special Account.



Page 43
The DG Budget will provide the KPKNs with guidelines and criteria for eligible Project
expenditures in accordance with the Credit/Loan Agreements. The KPKN will execute payments
and provide copies of payment remittance orders (SPMs) and other supporting documents to the
DG Budget regularly, against which the applications for disbursements will be prepared.
Payments against activities funded from APBD II will follow similar procedures except that
requests for payments will be submitted to the District Finance Division. Retroactive financing
will be provided up to US$1.35 million equivalent for eligible expenditures (for categories other
than consultants) made after March 31, 1998 or a date twelve months before the date of the
signing of the Credit/Loan Agreements, whichever occurs later.
2.   Special account.  In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account will be
established by the DG Budget in Bank Indonesia and on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. The account will be established in US$ currency with an authorized allocation of US$1.0
million equivalent. The DG Budget will submit replenishment applications for the Special
Account on a monthly basis, or when the account is drawn down by 20% of the initial deposit,
whichever occurs first. In addition to the supporting documents being kept at the PMU/PIUs and
at the KPKNs, the DG Budget will also keep copies of SPMs and other relevant supporting
documents.
3.   Use of statement of expenditures (SOEs). For civil works and procurement of goods
contracts below US$100,000 equivalent, consulting firms contracts below US$100,000 equivalent
, individual consultants contracts below US$50,000 equivalent, training , extension support,
farmer-managed activities and all incremental operations expenditures would be disbursed on the
basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), whereby supporting documentation is to be retained
by the implementing agencies and made available to the Bank during supervision. Withdrawal
applications for others will be supported by full documentation and signed contracts.
4.   Funding mechanism for farmer-managed activities. The mechanism to fund farmer-
managed activities is a modification of the scheme used by the KDP (Kecamatan Development
Project) and the VIP (Village Infrastructure Project) Projects in Indonesia. Farmer groups would
propose priority activities which they will manage based on their farmer group plans. These
activities will be aggregated into a village proposal amounting toRp. 20-30 million per village
per year. The screening, verification, and funding allocation mechanism, would involve the BPP
and BIPP staff following the procedure described in Annex 6 E. The funds will be managed by
farmer groups, including farmer cooperatives, in the village, under the coordination of the District
Sub-Project Manager.



Page 44
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 6, Table A
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)\a
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method                   (including
Contingencies
)
ICB      NCB        Other\b      N.B.F\c
1. Civil works                           1.86                                   1.86
(1.57)                                (1.57)
2. Goods (except vehicles)               1.98        0.24                       2.22
(1.58)     (0.19)                     (1.77)
3. Local Training, Extension                        12.79                      12.79
Support and Farmer-                             (10.00)                    (10.00)
Managed activities
4. Incremental Operating                             2.51                       2.51
Costs                                            (2.00)                     (2.00)
5. Consultants' Services                             2.66                       2.66
Studies & Overseas                                (2.66)                     (2.66)
Training
6. Operations and                                                0.66           0.66
Maintenance Costs
7. Vehicles                                                      0.87           0.87
Total                                   3.83      18.19        1.53          23.57
Credit/Loan                           (3.15)    (14.85)                    (18.00)
Notes:
\a Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by Association Credit/IBRD Loan.
\b  "Other" includes national shopping, consultants' selection.
following Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants and Governnent procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
\c N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed: for vehicles, and operation & maintenance costs.



Page 45
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 6, Table B
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure               Contract Value               Procurement           Contracts
Category                  (Threshold)                   Method          Subject to Prior
Review
(US$'000)
1. Civil Works     Individual contracts of US$100,000    NCB                      Yes,
or above                                                       1,200
Individual contracts of less than  NCB                        No \a
US$100,000
2. Goods (except   US$100,000 and over                NCB                          Yes,
vehicles)                                                                       350
At or above US$ 10,000 but less than   NCB                    No \a
US$100,000
Individual contracts of less than  National shopping          No \a
US$10,000, up to an aggregate of
USS 1,880,000 except Part A.1(c)
Individual contracts of less than
US$10,000 for Part A.I(c)
3. Training,       Not applicable                     Government                 Yes \b
Extension                                           procedures acceptable       12,000
Support &                                           to the Bank
Farmer-managed
Activities
4. Incremental     Not applicable                      Government                  NA
Operating Costs                                     procedures acceptable
to the Bank \c
5. Consultants'    All contracts                      Quality and cost-            Yes
Services &                                          based Procedures            2.50
Studies
la Prior review only for the first three contracts by each implementing unitfor goods and works regardless of contract
value.
lb Results of PRAs and plans for training, extension and farmer-managed activities shall be furnished to the Bankfor
approval, prior to expenditures. Expenditures shallfollow clearly defined procedures (JuklaklJuknis) acceptable to
the Bank.
\c Expenditures shallfollow clearly defined procedures (Juklak/Juknis) acceptable to the Bank.



Page 46
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 6, Table C
Allocation of Credit/Loan Proceeds
Expenditure         IDA        IDA        IBRD       Total        Financing
Category          Credit    Credit       Loan    Amount         Percentage
Amount   Amount   Amount   in US$
in SRD     in US$     in US$    Million
Million    Million    Million
Equiv.
1. Civil Works            0.30       0.40       1.00       1.40          91%
2. Goods (except          0.40       0.50       130        1.80     100%/100%/80%
vehicles)
3. Local Training,        2.00       2.70       6.90       9.60           80%
Extension Support and
Farmer-managed
activities
4. Incremental Operating  0.50       0.60       1.40       2.00          100%
Costs
5. Consultants' Services,    0.60    0.80       1.90       2.70          80%
Studies and Overseas
Training
6. Fee                                          0.13       0.13    Fee equalto I% of
Loan amount
7. Unallocated                                  0.37       0.37
TOTAL                     3.80       5.00       13.00     18.00



Page 47
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 6, Table D
Procurement Plan
(in US$ '000)
Procurement Items      Year 1         Year 2        Year 3         Year 4        Total
1. Civil Works \a      1,293           397            109             57         1,857
(NCB)         (NCB)          (NCB)         (NCB)
2. Goods (except          54          1,321           473           374          2,222
vehicles) \a    (NCB/NS/FA)   (NCB/NS/FA)  (NCB/NS/FA)  (NCBINS/FA)
3. Vehicles               --            871            ---            ---         871
(GOI)
4. Local Training,      1,394         4,125          4,316         2,951        12,787
Extension             (FA)          (FA)           (FA)          (FA)
Support &
Farmer-managed
Activities \b
5. Incremental           380            680           732            718         2,510
Operating Costs      (FA)           (FA)           (FA)          (FA)
6. Consultants'          530            729           851            548         2,658
Services,
Studies and
Overseas
Training \c
7. Operations and          7            211           223            223          664
Maintenance          (GOI)         (GOI)         (GOI)          (GOI)
TOTAL                   3,659         8,333          6,705         4,872        23,570
Note: la Prior review forfirst three contracts from each implementing unit, regardless of the value.
Ib Prior review for plans, prior to expenditures.
lc All contracts subject to prior review.
(NCB/NS) = National Competitive Bidding/National Shopping
(GOI) = 100%financed by the Government
(FA) = GO! procedures acceptable to the Bank (clearly defined in the Juklak/Juknis).
Procurement plan for each activity in the procurement process at central and district
levels are presented separately in the form of Gantt chart and have been included in
the Project Implementation Plan.



Page 48
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 7
Financial Management System
Internal control system. The intemal control system framework for the project consists
of Project management organization, policies, and procedures. It was patterned after the existing
government internal control system, comprising of: (a) Project organization; (b) accounting
system; and (c) control procedures. In order to meet the requirement of the Bank (O.P. 10.02), an
assessment of the financial management capability and control environment of the Borrowers'
implementing agencies was carried out by the Bank's Resident Mission financial specialist. The
weaknesses identified will be addressed by the Government by Project effectiveness. An action
plan for financial management was prepared for the Project (Annex 7A).
Project organization and staffing. Project implementation at the district level will be the
responsibility of the Project Implementing Unit (PIU) at the BIPP in each participating district.
Overall coordination and guidance, annual work plan preparation, and provision of budget would
be provided by the Project Management Unit (PMI) at NCAE. The Central PMU will also be
responsible for implementing the central-level activities and providing budget for provincial
activities. The annual work plan and budget for the project would be covered under a single DIP
budget, under the responsibility of the central PMU under a Project Manager (Pimpro) and the
District PIUs headed by Sub-Project Managers (Pimbagpros). The District PIU will have the full
authority to carry out the activities and incur expenditures as planned in the DIP budget and will
submit periodic progress reports to the Central PMU. The Central PMt will manage the
provincial activities by appointing a Pimpro's representative (Kuasa Pimpro) located at the
Provincial Agriculture Kanwil's Office.
Each District PIU will have the following staff: (a) Sub-Project Manager (Pimbagpro), (b)
Treasurer (Bendaharawan), (c) Technical Assistant for project management , (d) a Financial
Officer for the project in the BIPP's Finance Sub-Section , (e) a Procurement Officer for the
project in the BIPP's Logistic Sub-Section and (f) Project Activities Coordinators. The Central
PMU at NCAE will have the following staff: (a) a Project Manager, (b) a Treasurer, (c)
Technical Assistant for Project Management , (d) a Procurement Officer/Coordinator, (e) a
Financial Officer, (f) Planning, M&E Officer, and (g) a Technical Team. The Sub-PMU at
NCFECE would include (a) a Project Manager, (b) a Treasurer, (c) Technical Assistant for
Project management, (d) Financial Officer, (e) Procurement Officer/Coordinator, and (f)
Planning, M&E Officer.
The minimum requirements for the Pimpro or Pimbagpro are: (a) competent staff of the
implementing agency, (b) has a university degree (SI), (c) with minimum staff level/gradeIlc
for the Pimpro and IIIb for the Pimbagpro, (d) has a Project management course certificate or
equivalent and (e) with at least two years working experience in a Government Project. The
minimum requirements for a Treasurer are as follows: (a) competent staff of the implementing
agency, (b) has three-years diploma (D3) degree, (c) has minimum staff level/gradelIla, (d) has a
treasury course certificate or equivalent, and (e) with at least one year working experience in a
Government Project.
The NCAE has the minimum capacity and experience in implementing a Bank-supported
Project. The BIPP, as a recently established agency, has no experience in executing Bank-
supported Projects. In order to meet the gaps, the BIPP Managers and the proposed PMI, Sub-



Page 49
PMU, and PIU staff would be trained on the administrative and financial management aspects of
the project. During the Project launch workshop, the Bank procedures and requirements will also
be discussed by Bank staff. Continuous guidance and on-job-training for the district PIU staff
will be provided by the central PMU staff with assistance from specialists in the TA team.
Acconnting system and procedures. The general accounting system and procedures will
generally follow the government accounting system. Specific Project accounting system and
procedures would be designed and documented in the project and Financial Management System
(PFMS) manual which would be made available to the central PMU/Sub-PMU and the district
PIUs. The Project financial statements will show the financial position of project during the
fiscal year ending on March 31, comprising of the following:
(a)  Financial statement of Project account.  Each district PIU will maintain separate sub-
project accounting records, on cash basis, for each source of fund. All relevant supporting
documents would be kept for annual audit and random inspection by Bank's mission. The district
PIU will provide the district sub-project financial reports to NCAE, through the central PMU, on
a quarterly basis. The central PMU will maintain the similar accounting records for activities
executed at central and provincial levels. In addition, it compiles the district financial reports,
prepare consolidated financial Project accounts such as Statement of Project Expenditures and
Financing (SPEF).
(b)  Financial statement of special account and SOE. The DG Budget, the custodian of the
project special account and the unit responsible for disbursing funds from the Bank, will prepare
the financial statement of the Special Account (SA) and Statement of Expenditures (SOE). The
financial statement will follow the standard format (of June 1992) which will include: (a)
deposits and replenishments to the SA received from the Bank; (b) withdrawals from the SA,
including all SOEs (both from SA and other accounts) used as the basis for submission of
withdrawal applications; (c) remaining balance at the end of fiscal year; and (d) reconciliation
between amount received by SA and amount disbursed by the Bank.
Project financial reporting requirements.  The District PIUs will prepare progress
report, including financial report, on quarterly basis. The PIU reports are due for submission to
the central PMU two weeks after the end of each quarter. The central PMU will compile and
prepare the quarterly consolidated report for submission to NCAE, BAPPENAS, and the Bank,
no later than one month after the end of the quarter. The quarterly progress reports will be used
as basis for preparing the financial statement of project account (SPEF) to be submitted to the
BPKP for annual audits. The financial reports would consist of the following: (a) Statement of
Project Expenditures and Financing (SPEF), (b) Progress Report of Project Expenditures and
Financing (PRPEF), (c) Contract Expenditures Report (CONREP), (d) Non-Contracted
Expenditures Report (NCONREP), (e) Project Expenditures and Financing by Location
(LOCPEF), consolidated report only, and (f) Status of Credit/Loan Disbursements (STATLN),
consolidated report only
To facilitate the preparation of the above reports, all expenditures will be recorded in the
"Worksheet for Project Expenditures and Financing" (WSPEF) in accordance with the format
included in the Project and Financial Management Manual.  The detailed description of
expenditures for each component, expenditures categories, and financing sources is provided in
the "Descriptions of Project Expenditures and Financing " (DESCRPEF).
Contracts and expenditures coding system. To facilitate efficient monitoring against
contracts and expenditures incurred from various PIUs and locations, reference number of
contracts and expenditures accountability reports (SPPGU and SPJ) will be standardized as



Page 50
indicated below. In line with government system, the expenditures accountability report (SPPGU
and SPJ) would be made separately for each expenditures category.
SN/Comp-Cat/LoclSF/mmyy
whereby:   SN   =    Serial Number
Comp       Component codes, i.e.
A =   Enhancement of Farmers' Capacity to Participate in and Lead
Extension Activities
B =   Strengthening the District Extension System
C =   Provision of Central Extension Policy and Project Management
Support
Cat        Expenditures Category codes, i.e.
1 =   Civil Works
2=   Goods
3 =   Training, Extension Support and Farmer-managed Activities
4 =   Consultants' Services and Studies
5 =   Incremental Operating Costs
6 =   Operations and Maintenance Costs
Loc        Location of Project/Sub-Project codes, i.e.
snlg = Simalungun           lbtu = Labuhan Batu
mros = Maros                gowa = Gowa
kdri = Kendari              klka =Kolaka
kpng =Kupang                tts = Timur Tengah Selatan
bntl = Bantul               klgo = Kulon Progo
acat = Aceh Barat           pdie = Pidie
bnas = Banyumas             mgng = Magelang
blow = Bolaang Mogondow     mnsa = Minahasa
ktru = Kota Baru            tnut = Tanah Laut
bima = Bima                 Imat Lombok Barat
pmu =Central PMU, Jakarta    spmu = Sub-PMU, Jakarta
SF   =    Sources of Funds codes, i.e.
Credit/Loan = Association Credit/IBRD Loan
APBN= APBN Rupiah
APBD II= APBD II Rupiah
L&N = Credit/Loan and APBN
mmyy       Month and Year of contract signing or expenditures
Audit requirements. The annual audit will be carried by BPKP (Central Audit Board)
based on the consolidated project account submitted by the central PMU. Likewise, BPKP will
also audit the financial statement of Special Account and Statement of Expenditure (SOE)
prepared by the DG Budget. The audits by BPKP auditors will be in accordance with the Term of
Reference (TOR) for the audit of project accounts, special account, and statement of expenditures
acceptable to the Bank.  These audit reports should be furnished to the Bank each year, six
months after the end of fiscal year.
Flow of funds. The annual work plans and budget estimates from the credit/loan and
APBN will be submitted to the central PMU at NCAE and to the districtPIUs at BIPP through
the Agriculture Sectoral DIP budget approved by MOF and BAPPENAS. The activities funded
by local government funds will be provided through the APBD II approved by the respective
District Heads (Bupati). The Pimpro and Pimbagpros at the district PIUs will be responsible for
authorizing the project expenditures in accordance with the DIP budgets under existing
government procedures.
The Pimpro and Pimbagpros will submit payment requests for the credit/loan and APBN
funded activities to the nearby MOF treasurers (KPKNs) who will issue payment remittance



Page 51
orders to the Bank Indonesia branch office to credit suppliers/contractors accounts at their
respective banks. These payments will be telexed to the Bank Indonesia head office in Jakarta to
debit the project special account. For smaller amount expenditures and self managed activities
(swakeloka) by the PMU/PIUs, a sufficient cash advance will be provided by the KPKN to the
PMU/PIU treasurers. Each month or whenever required, the PMU/PIUs will have to account
their expenditures and report to the KPKNs who will replenish the PMU/PIU accounts. Based on
the PMU/PIUs accountability reports, the KPKN would reimburse itself from the project's
Special Account.
DG Budget would be responsible for providing the KPKN with guidelines and criteria for
eligible project expenditures in accordance with theCredit/Loan Agreements. The KPKN will be
responsible to execute payments and provide copy of the payment remittance orders (SPMs) and
other supporting documents to the DG Budget regularly, against which the applications for
disbursements would be prepared. Payments against activities funded from APBD II will follow
similar procedures except that request for payments will be submitted to the District Finance
Division. The flow of funds, inclusive of.the provisions of workplan and budget, reporting and
auditing arrangements under the DAFEP is shown in the chart.
Funding mechanism for farmer-managed activities. The mechanism to fund farmer-
managed activities is a modification of the scheme used by the KDP (Kecamatan Development
Project) and the VIP (Village Infrastructure Project) in Indonesia. Farmer groups would propose
priority activities which they will manage based on their farmer group plans. These activities will
be aggregated into a village proposal amounting to Rp. 20-30 million per village per year. The
screening, verification, and funding allocation mechanism, would involve the BPP and BIPP staff
following the procedure described in Annex 7B. The funds will be managed by farmer groups,
including farmer cooperatives, in the village, under the coordination of the District Sub-Project
Manager.



Page 52
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 7, Table A
Action Plan for Financial Management
Actions to be Taken                    Responsible         Completed By
Group
I. Organization and Staffing
(a) Establishment of Central Project Management Units      GOI         By Board presentation
and District Project Implementing Units
-at NCAE and NCFECE (central)
-at BIPPs (districts)
(b) Appointment of Project and Sub-Project Managers        GOI         By Board presentation
-at NCAE and NCFECE (central)
-at BIPPs (districts)
(c) Appointment of Project Accountant/Financial            GOI         Done by May 1999
Management Specialist
-at NCAE
II. Accounting System and Procedures
(a) Establishment of a Financial Management System         GOI         By Project effectiveness
acceptable to the Bank.
(b) Issuance of a Financial Management System Manual       GOI         By Project effectiveness
acceptable to the Bank.
Acronyms:
BIPP        = District Information and Extension Center
GOI         = Government of Indonesia
NCAE        = National Center for Agricultural Extension
NCFECE   = National Center for Forestry and Estate Crops Extension



Page 53
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 7 B
Funding Mechanism for Farmer-Managed Activities
1.   Farmer-managed activities. Several activities under Component I of the Project would
be managed and conducted by farmers and farmer groups. These activities include: (a) village
assessments, (b) farmer group and village planning, (c) farmers' field investigations, (d) village
inter-group meetings and visits, (e) farmer media materials preparation and dissemination, (f)
farmer technical and business meetings, (g) farmer-to-farmer training and technology
dissemination.
Each farmer groups' network shall elect a chairperson who will manage the agreed
activities formulated in the village action plan (VAP). He/she will be responsible for the funds
under the village proposal. The field extension worker assigned to the village will assist the
farmer groups in the planning, supervision, and certification of the eligible activities. The cost of
a set of farmer-managed activities was estimated at Rp.20-30 million per village per year.
2.   Implementation arrangements. Potential farmer trainers, both men and women farmers,
would be identified during the farmers' training sessions. Based on their performance, as
evaluated by their peers (by other farmner group members) and the field extension worker in the
village. They will be invited to become farmer trainers by the BIPP/BPP. Selected farmer trainer
candidates would participate in a training of trainers (TOT) course covering basic agriculture
practices, group dynamics, and leadership skills, to be conducted by the BIPP/BPP. Based on
result of the TOT, the farmer trainers will be appointed by the BIPP Head or BPP Coordinator to
participate in the project.
The farmer trainers and the farmer groups would conduct village assessment activity
using participatory methods (PRA). The farmer groups will identify their farming related
problems and potential solutions. They will prepare a village action plan (VAP) which would
include a detailed description of the activities to be carried by each farmer group and the
estimated costs being proposed for funding. Farmers may seek extension support from the public
extension service or other providers from the private sector, non-government organizations, or the
local university, under this funding mechanism.
The farmer groups' network chairperson shall be selected by all the farmer group
members. He/she will be designated to sign the VAP and later be responsible to coordinate the
activities and to manage the extension funds. The agreed VAP will be submitted to the sub-
district BPP (kecamatan level) and verified by the field extension workers. The verified VAP
will be consolidated at the BPP to formulate the sub-district extensionplan before submission to
the district BIPP (kabupaten level). At the district level, the sub-district extension plans will be
discussed in a forum by the District Extension Committee which will endorse the VAP for
funding allocation to the BIPP.
A village agreement will be prepared, based on the endorsed VAP, and will be signed by
the Sub-Project Manager (Pimbagpro), in behalf of the BIPP. The farmer groups, represented
by the farmer groups' association chairperson, will sign in behalf of the participating village. The
BPP Coordinator and Village Head shall sign the agreement as witnesses.



Page 54
3.   Funding arrangements. The BIPP's Pimbagpro shall arrange for cash advance to fund
the agreed farmer group activities from the district KPKN (Treasury office) which is a normal
practice under the UYHD system. This will be made by submission of a request for an advance
(SPP-DU) to KPKN, followed by issuance of payment order (SPM-DU) in favor of the
Pimbagpro's account. Once an agreement for collaboration is signed with a participating village,
the Pimbagpro may pay up to 40% of the agreed VAP budget to the farmer group leaders. The
farmer groups would open their accounts in the local bank. When the funds have been expended
by the farmer group, they can request further payments from the Pimbagpro upon submission of
the progress report of completed or ongoing activities as certified by the field extension worker.
The Pimbagpro shall account for his/her expenditures against the advance received by
submitting a SPP-GU to KPKN, accompanied with receipts of funds by the farmer groups and the
progress or completion report of activities carried by the farmer groups. The field extension
worker in the village will supervise and closely monitor the implementation of the farmer groups'
activities by carrying out periodic field inspection, holding discussions with the farner groups
regarding their progress and problems, and reviewing their progress or completion reports before
submission to the BPP and then to the BIPP. The farmer groups would utilize similar monitoring
tools similar to those found to be effective by the VIP or KDP projects, such as the village notice
board.



Page 55
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 7 C
TERMS OF REFERENCE
for the Audit of Special Purpose Project Financial Statements
Objectives
The overall objectives of the audit are: (i) to enable the auditor to express a professional
opinion on the project financial statements, the operation of the overall financial management
system including internal controls, and compliance with financing agreements; (ii) to provide
project management with timely information on financial aspects of the project to enable follow-
up action; and (iii) ) to assess on the achievements of project objectives as measured by
performance indicators.
The audit should cover the entire project, i.e. covering all sources and application of funds
by all implementing agencies. The auditor should visit the various implementation units and
other agencies as considered necessary for the audit.
Scope
The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards of Auditing and
with the Audit Manual for World Bank Financed projects (July 1998). It will include such tests
and controls as the auditor considers necessary under the circumstances. Specific areas of
coverage of the audit will include the following:
(1) an assessment of whether the project financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with consistently applied Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and give a true and
fair view of the operations of the project during the year and the financial position of the project
at the close of the fiscal year. Any material deviations from GAAP, and the impact of such
departures on the project financial statements as presented would be stated
(2) an assessment of the adequacy of the project financial management systems', including
internal controls. This would include aspects such as adequacy and effectiveness of accounting,
financial and operational controls, and any needs for revision; level of compliance with
established policies, plans and procedures; reliability of accounting systems, data and financial
reports; methods of remedying weak controls or creating them where there are none; verification
of assets and liabilities; and integrity, controls, security and effectiveness of the operation of the
computerized system (if any), and
(3) an assessment of compliance with provisions of financing agreements, especially those
relating to accounting and financial matters. This would, inter alia, include verification that:
The financial management system would include methods and records established to identify,
assemble, analyze, classify, record and report on transactions and to maintain accountability for the
related assets and liabilities.
May 28, 1999



Page 56
(a) all external funds have been used in accordance with the conditions of the relevant
financing agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes for
which the financing was provided.
(b) counterpart funds have been provided and used in accordance with the relevant
financing agreements, with due attention to economy and efficiency, and only for the purposes of
which they were provided;
(c) expenditures charged to the project are eligible expenditures and have been correctly
classified in accordance with the relevant financing agreement;
(d) goods and services financed have been procured in accordance with the relevant
financing agreement;
(e) all necessary supporting documents, records, and account have been kept in respect
of all project activities
(f) clear linkages exist between the accounting records including accounts books and
the Project Financial Statements;
(g) where Special Account has been used, it has been maintained in accordance with the
provisions of the relevant financing agreement.
(h) statement of expenditures (SOE) used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal
applications accurately reflect expenditures and activities on the project
(i) project expenditures as reported by the project implementation agencies are
reconciled with the amounts withdrawn from the Special Account and the amounts deposited to
the special account are reconciled with the amounts disbursed from the IBRD Loan.
(4) an assessment on the achievements of the planned results of the projects as measured by the
performance indicators as stipulated in the relevant financing agreement.
Project Financial Statements
Project Accounts, are prepared by the project executing agency, and should include (i)
Annual Project Expenditures and Financing; and (ii) Cumulative Project Expenditures and
Financing. Sources of funds would show IBRD, other donors, and GOI counterpart funds
separately. Project expenditures would be summarized by main project components, disbursement
categories and by project location (province or kabupaten) both consolidated for the current fiscal
year and accumulated to date.
The auditor must assess a reconciliation report between the project expenditures made
from the special account and the withdrawals from the special account. Reconciliation should
also be made with the amounts paid from the pre-financing account and direct payments.
Financial Statement of Special Account, is prepared by DG Budget, MOF and includes:
(i) deposits and replenishments received from the Bank; (ii) withdrawals from the special
account; and (iii) the remaining balances at the end of the fiscal year
The auditor should provide an opinion as to the degree of compliance with the
Bank's procedures and the exactitude of the balance of the Special Account at year-end.
The audit should examine the eligibility and integrity of financial transactions during the



Page 57
period under review and fund balances at the end of the period, the operation and use of
the special account in accordance with the financing agreement, and the adequacy of
intemnal financial controls.
The auditor should assess a reconciliation report between the amounts deposited to the
special account and disbursed by the World Bank to the special account.
Statement of Expenditures. The auditor is also required to audit all SOEs (paid from
the special account and/or other accounts) used as the basis for the submission of withdrawal
applications. The auditor should apply such tests and control as the auditor consider necessary
under the circumstances. These expenditures should be carefully compared for project eligibility
with the relevant financing agreements, and with reference to the Project Appraisal Document for
guidance when considered necessary. Ineligible expenditures identified as having been included
in withdrawal applications and reimbursed by the World Bank should be noted separately by the
auditor. The total withdrawals under the SOE procedure should be part of the overall
reconciliation of Bank disbursements described above.
Audit Report
The audit report shall contain the auditor's opinion on the fairness of the project financial
statements. The report should refer to the auditor's TOR. The auditor should submit the report to
the project executing agency who should then promptly forward one copy of the audited accounts
and report to the Bank. It should be received by the Bank no later than six months after the end of
the project's fiscal year.
The audit opinion on the Special Account should include a separate paragraph
commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under the SOE procedures
and the extent to which the Bank can rely on SOEs as a basis for credit/loan disbursement
Management Letter
In addition' to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter," in which
the auditor will:
(a) give comments and observations on the accounting records, systems, and controls that were
examined during the course of the audit; and identify specific deficiencies and areas of weakness
in systems and controls and make recommendation for their improvement;
(b) give comments on economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the use of resources;
(c) report on the achievement of the planned results of the project
(d) report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing
agreement and give comments, if any, on internal and external matters affecting such compliance;
(e) communicate matters that have come to attention during the audit which might have a
significant impact on the implementation of the project, and
(f) any other matters that the auditors considers pertinent.
General
The auditor should be given access to all legal documents, correspondence, and any other
information associated with the project and deemed necessary by the auditor. Confirmation
should also be obtained of amounts disbursed and outstanding at the Bank.
The auditor should be familiar with the Bank's Audit Manual for World Bank Financed
Projects which provide guidance to auditors conducting audits of World Bank financed projects.



Page 58
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Flow of Funds
World Bank/IDA
disbursement                                                 progress report
appl. disursement                                        National
BAPPENAS
Bank Indonesia                         DG BUDGET                                audits of SA & SOE
Headoffice         Dank          1                      
Special Acct.       statement
DIP budget                                     BPKP
f ~~~~~~~~~~~~Auditors|
C AE 
t  <   *                  PMUU
Debit to                        copy            Y/C                               Forestry
Special Account                 SPM                                              Sub-PMU
budget
I Kanwil MoAgic
Kuasa Pimpro               Provin  :al
progress
report
audits
Bank Indonesia                      MOF Treasurer                                      District               sampling
Branch office                            KPKN                                           Bupati
APBD 11 budget
paymments
paymentl                         I 0                         /      District



Page 59
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 8
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         Planned                Actual\a
(At final PCD stage)
1996/97 (Preparation)\b                             285.9                   160.8
1998 (Pre-appraisal/First Appraisal)                155.2                   153.4
1999 (Redesign/Second Appraisal)                    110.0                   116.2
2000 (Negotiations/Board)                            37.2                   NA
TOTAL                                               588.3                   430.4
B. Project Schedule                                Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the Project (months)       18 months                12 months
First Bank mission (identification)              05/23/96                 05/23/96
Appraisal mission departure                      04/23/98                 04/23/98
Project was put on hold \c                       04/98
Project redesign mission departure               02/12/99                 02/12/99
Second appraisal mission departure               04/12/99                 04/12/99
Negotiations                                     07/05/99 (Rev.)          07/07/99
Board                                            08/31/99 (Rev.)
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    11/01/99 (Rev.)
Prepared by: National Center for Agricultural Extension (NCAE), Ministry of Agriculture and National
Center for Forestry and Estate Crops Extension (NCFECE), Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops
Preparation assistance: No PHRD support for project preparation by NCAE and NCFECE.
Bank staff who worked on the Project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Dely P. Gapasin                       Agriculturist, Res. Management
Jaime Quizon, Stephen Mink                          Econornist
Willem Zijp                              Extension Specialist
Yogana Prasta, Behdad Nowroozi, Novira Asra             Financial Analysts
Sumaryo Soemardjo                              Agriculturist
Rizal Rivai                            Procurement Specialist
Titie Hadiyati                              COSTAB/CPM
Charles Ameur, Manuel Lantin, Daniel Moreau,              Peer Reviewers
Ivar Serejski, Vishva Bindlish
Karin Nordlander                             Legal Specialist
Bridie Champion, Hilarion Bruneau                 Disbursement Officers
Anthony Whitten                           Environment Specialist
Elizabeth George, Kathryn Cherrie                   Team Assistants
la     Actual budgets in 1996 and 1997 were from Bank Budget (US$108,100) and FAO
(US$53,000). The 1998 budget is from BB (US$83,100), FAO (US$34,400) and Swedish
do               Trust Fund (US435,900)for the Appraisal Mission in March/April 1998.
lb     Project preparation budget of US$160,800 includes social and gender analysis study
(August/September 1996) and Extension Incentives Review (June/July 1997), both funded
from the WB/FAO collaborative program.
Ic    The Project was put on hold in May 1998 by the GOI and the Bank due to the economic crisis.



Page 60
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 9
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan by the Government:
* Final draft report of the Project Implementation Plan, National Center for Agricultural
Extension (NCAE), Ministry of Agriculture and National Center for Forestry and Estate
Crops Extension (NCFECE), Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops, May 1999
*  Detailed District Implementation Plans forLabuhan Batu and Simalungun (North Sumatra
Province); Gowa and Maros (South Sulawesi Province); Kolaka and Kendari (South East
Sulawesi); Kupang and Timor Tenggah Selatan (East Nusa Tenggara); Bantul and Kulon
Progo (D.I. Yogyakarta), May 1999
* Implementation Plan for Central Component (Central Extension Policy and
Project Management Support), NCAE and NCFECE, May 1999
*  Implementation Plan for the partner provinces of Central Java, D.I. Aceh, North Sulawesi,
South Kalimantan, and West Nusa Tenggara.
B. Bank Staff Assessments:
* Assessment of the financial management system, July 1999.
* Procurement assessment report, July 1999.
* Assessment of agricultural inputs and credit availability to support agricultural
development in the DAFEP Project areas, February 1999
* Social and Gender Analysis for the Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension
Project, December 13, 1996
I Indonesia: Review of Incentives for Extension Workers, July 24, 1997
C. Others:
* Decree of the Minister of Home Affairs establishing the DisiTict Agricultural Information
and Extension Centers as local government units, April 27, 1999
* Decree of the Coordinating Minister of Development Control and Administrative Reform
approving the organizational structure of the BIPP, February 17, 1999
* Joint Decree of the Minister of Home Affairs and the Minister of Agriculture establishing
the District Agricultural Information and Extension Centers, April 1996
* Operational Guidelines for Joint Ministerial Decree, September 1996
* Indonesia: Decentralized Agricultural Extension Study, Books I and II, February 1996
*   District Profiles of Labuhan Batu and Simalungun (North Sumatra Province); Gowa and
Maros (South Sulawesi Province); Kolaka and Kendari (South East Sulawesi); Kupang
and Timor Tenggah Selatan (East Nusa Tenggara).
*Including electronic files



INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 10
Status of Bank Group Operations in Indonesia
Operations Portfolio (as of March 4, 1999)
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                  disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 213
Active Projects
ID-PE-36049     1999   GOI                               EARLY CHILD DEVELOPM                     21.50        0.00         0.00             20.40        -1.10         0.00
ID-PE-3967      1999   GOI                               FIFTH HEALTH PROJECT                     44.70        0.00         0.00             43.70         -.55        0.00
ID-PE-56074     1999   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA             MUNICIPAL INNOVATION                      5.00        0.00         0.00               5.00        0.00        0.00
ID-PE-56230     1999                                     SAL I(POLICY REFORM)                  1,000.00        0.00         0.00            400.00    -600.00           0.00
ID-PE-36048     1998   GOI                               CORAL REEF MGM REHAB                      6.90        0.00         0.00               6.40         .17          .04           w
ID-PE-36956     1998   GOI                               SAFE MOTHERHOOD                          42.50        0.00         6.00             34.99         5.65         0.00
ID-PE-37095     1998   GOI                               MALUKU REG. DEV                          16.30        0.00         0.00              15.65         .65         0.00           0)
ID-PE-39644     1998   GOI                               W.JAVA BASIC EDUC.                      103.50        0.00         0.00            100.50        -1.83         0.00           -
ID-PE-3993      1998   GOI                               N.SUMATRA REG. ROADS                    234.00        0.00         0.00            234.00         4.67         0.00
ID-PE-40061     1998   GOI                               BENGKULU REG DEV                         20.50        0.00         0.00              19.90        1.14         0.00
ID-PE-45337     1998   GOI                               KECAMATAN DEV FUND                      225.00        0.00         0.00            212.13        -4.53        0.00
ID-PE-48715     1998                                      IIDP                                    34.50        0.00         8.50              24.70        6.39         6.95
ID-PE-55755     1998   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA             BANKING REFORM ASST.                     20.00        0.00         0.00              14.77       14.77         0.00
ID-PE-35544     1997   GOI                               SOLAR HOME SYSTEMS                       20.00        0.00         2.50              17.50        4.50         0.00
ID-PE-36047     1997   GOI                               BALI URBAN INFRAST.                     110.00        0.00         0.00            104.52         2.82       -1.85
ID-PE-36053     1997   GOI                               SULAWESI UDP II                         155.00        0.00          .05            139.05        62.08         2.40
ID-PE-3987      1997                                     C.INDONESIA SEC.EDU.                    104.00        0.00         0.00              96.50       25.46         0.00
ID-PE-40195     1997   GOI                               QUAL OF UNDERGRAD ED                     71.20        0.00         0.00              66.04        6.68         0.00
ID-PE-4026      1997   GOI/PERUMKA                       RLWY EFFICIENCY                         105.00        0.00         0.00             103.60       27.77         0.00
ID-PE-40521     1997   GOI                               VILLAGE INFRA II                        140.10        0.00         0.00              80.87       43.70       13.15
ID-PE-41894     1997   GOI                               SUMATRA SEC EDUC                         98.00        0.00         0.00              83.29        4.62         0.00
ID-PE-42540     1997                                      IODINE DEF. CONTROL                     28.50        0.00         2.50              23.44        2.78         0.00
ID-PE-49051     1997                                     BEPEKA AUDIT MODER P                     16.40        0.00          .90              13.05        2.15         0.00
ID-PE-37097     1996   GOI                               E.JAVA SEC.EDUC.                         99.00        0.00         0.00              81.38        8.38         0.00
ID-PE-39312     1996   GOI                               SECOND E. JAVA UDP                      142.70        0.00         0.00            121.73       102.83         0.00
ID-PE-39643     1996   GOI                               STD/AIDS                                 24.80        0.00        19.80               1.69       19.17         0.00
ID-PE-3978      1996   GOI                                IND'L TECHNOLOGY DEV                    47.00        0.00         6.00              24.41       22.11         5.19
ID-PE-4003      1996   GOI                                SECONDARY SCHOOL TEA                    60.40        0.00        30.00              19.77       29.56         0.00
ID-PE-4004      1996   GOI                               HIGHiER EDUC SUP.(III                    65.00         0.00        0.00              45.58          .98        0.00
ID-PE-4008      1996   GOI                               NUSA TENGGARA DEV.                       27.00        0.00         4.90              17.42        6.01        0.00
ID-PE-4011      1996   GOI                               SULAWESI AGRI AREA                       26.80         0.00        3.70              17.37        2.04         0.00
ID-PE-4014      1996   GOI                               KERINCI SEBLAT ICDP                      19.10        0.00         0.00              18.34        6.53         0.00



Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
ID-PE-4016      1996   REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA             STRATEGIC URB. RDS I                    86.90        0.00       10.00             64.44       32.52         0.00
ID-PE-4021      1996   GOI                               POW. TRANS & DIST II                   373.00        0.00       80.00            196.33      211.72        -8.54
ID-PE-41896     1996   GOI                               HR CAPACITY BUILDING                    20.00        0.00        3.60             14.90       10.00         0.00
ID-PE-3951      1995   GOI                               KALIMANTAN UDP                         136.00        0.00        0.00             61.24       52.40         0.00
ID-PE-3965      1995   GOI                               HEALTH IV:IMPR HEALT                    88.00        D.0o       20.00             50.89       25.05         4.88
ID-PE-3968      1995                                    BOOK & READING DEV                      132.50        0.00       31.50             80.08       27.33         0.00
ID-PE-3972      1995   GOI                              AG. RESEARCH II                          63.00        0.00       14.10             38.25       33.51          .35
ID-PE-39754     1995                                    TA FOR INFRA. II                         28.00        0.00        0.00             23.31       20.51         2.52
ID-PE-3979      1995   GOT                               RURAL ELECT II                        398.00         0.00       39.90            126.06      161.29        90.63
ID-PE-3984      1995   GOI                               LAND ADMINISTRATION                     80.00        0.00        0.00             46.14       25.26         0.00
ID-PE-3988      1995   GOI                               PHRD II                                 69.00        0.00        0.00             30.57       10.55         0.00
ID-PE-4001      1995   GOI                               TELECOM SECTOR MODER                   325.00        0.00       50.00            193.95      135.62         0.00
ID-PE-4019      1995   GOI                              ACCOUNTANCY DEV II                       25.00        0.00        3.30             10.53       12.28         0.00
ID-PE-3890      1994   GOI                               SEMARANG-SURAKARTA U                   174.00        0.00        3.67             85.04       57.16        16.01
ID-PE-3910      1994   GOI                               SUMATERA & KALIMAN P                   260.50        0.00       20.00            173.69      155.86         5.80
ID-PE-3937      1994   GOI                               INTEGRATED SWAMPS                       65.00        0.00        0.00             32.10       19.51         0.00
ID-PE-3945      1994   GOI                               HIGHWAY SECTOR II                      350.00        0.00        0.00            165.51      144.16    -184.51
ID-PE-3954      1994   GOI                              JAVA IRR IMP & W R M                    165.70        0.00        0.00             95.10       58.97         0.00
ID-PE-3985      1994   GOI                              WTRSHED CONSERVATION                     56.50        0.00        0.00             42.06       26.14         0.00           -u
ID-PE-3998      1994   GOI                               SURARAYA URBAN                        175.00         0.00        0.00            100.33       72.36        15.37           X
ID-PE-4010      1994   GOI                               DAM SAFETY                              55.00        0.00        0.00             34.14       24.96         0.00          (a
CD
ID-PE-4017      1994   GOI                              UNIV.RESEARCH FOR GR                     58.90        0.00        0.00             29.34       18.46         0.00
ID-PE-4020      1994   GOI                               KABUPATEN ROADS V                      101.50        0.00        0.00             16.39       14.71         0.00           N)
ID-PE-3914      1993   GOI                              THIRD COMM HEALTH &                      93.50        0.00       16.00              7.17       15.65         0.00
ID-PE-3990      1993   GOI                              WTR & SANI FOR LOW I                     80.00        0.00       11.00             26.73       37.75        26.42
ID-PE-3999      1993   GOI                              GROUNDWATER DEVT.                        54.00        0.00       18.94              7.95       18.09         1.06
ID-PE-4006      1993   GOI                              E.INDONESIA KABUPATE                    155.00        0.00        0.00             15.16       15.13         0.00
ID-PE-4007      1993   GOI                               POWER (CIRATA II)                     104.00         0.00       26.00             29.46       53.84         2.97
ID-PE-4009      1993   GOI                               INTEGRATED PEST MGMT                    32.00        0.00        5.50              4.51       10.01          .05
ID-PE-3916      1992                                     SURALAYA THERMAL POW                  423.60         0.00      132.20             23.82      149.25         2.33
ID-PE-3928      1992   GOI                              AGRICULTURAL FINANCI                   106.10         0.00       10.79             28.03       38.84         0.00
ID-PE-3940      1992   GOT                               PRIMARY EDUC QUALITY IMPROVE            37.00        0.00        6.00              3.90         9.90        0.00
ID-PE-3969      1992   GOI                               PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACH                    36.60        0.00        3.20              2.91         6.11        0.00
ID-PE-3997      1992   GOI                               TELECOM IV                             375.00        0.00       50.08             48.79       98.85        -2.70
ID-PE-3922      1991   GOI                               SULAWESI/IRIAN JAYA                    100.00        0.00        0,00              1.78         1.76        0.00
Total                                                                                        8,017.70         0.00      640.63          4,118.29   1,611.11         -1.48
AtvPrjts              Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               3,258.76          16,521.13           19,779.89
of which has been repaid:                 38.22            8,278.56            8,316.78
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               7,338.80           8,288.48           15,627.28
Amount sold                      :                0.00               88.08               88.08
Of which repaid              :                 0.00               88.08               88.08
Total Undisbursed               :             4,118.29               45.98           4,164.27
a.     Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Jan-99.



Page 63
Indonesia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Jan-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                               Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval       Company         Loan      Equity    Quasi     Partic     Loan     Equity    Quasi   Partic
1980/87         Semen Andalas          6.48     10.02      0.00       7.49     6.48      10.02     0.00    7.49
1982/84/93      Saseka Finance         0.00       .38     0.00       0.00       0.00       .38     0.00     0.00
1988            Manulife              0.00        .32      0.00      0.00      0.00        .32     0.00     0.00
1989            PT Agro Muko           1.68     2.20      0.00        1.82      1.68      2.20     0.00     1.82
1989/91/94      PT Astra              0.00      12.16      0.00       0.00      0.00     12.16     0.00     0.00
1990/91/93/95/99   PT Indo-Rama       56.45     12.22      0.00     40.75     41.45      11.81     0.00    40.75
1991            LYON-MLF-lbis         2.01       0.00      0.00      2.01      2.01       0.00     0.00     2.01
1991            PTArgo Pantes         9.38      13.00     0.00       11.36     9.38      13.00     0.00    11.36
1991            PT Indaci             0.00      0.00       1.83       0.00      0.00      0.00     1.44     0.00
1991            PT RIMBA               5.59       .60     0.00        1.67      5.59       .60     0.00     1.67
1991            SEAVI Indonesia        0.00      1.50      0.00       0.00      0.00      1.50     0.00     0.00
1992            PT Swadharma          17.11      0.00      0.00     21.28      17.11      0.00     0.00    21.28
1992/94/96      PT KIA Keramik        17.19      9.12      0.00      57.13     17.19      8.99     0.00    57.13
1992/95         PT Viscose            30.53      0.00      0.00      37.83     30.53      0.00     0.00    37.83
1993            PT Nusantara          3.18      0.00       0.00      10.38     3.18       0.00     0.00    10.38
1993            PT Samudera            1.09     5.00       0.00       2.91      1.09      5.00     0.00     2.91
1993/96          PTBBLDharmala        15.11      0.00      0.00      28.18     15.11      0.00     0.00    28.18
1994            KDLC Bali             3.36       1.14      0.00      0.00       3.36      1.14     0.00     0.00
1994            Prudential Asia       0.00      4.80      0.00        0.00     0.00       2.24     0.00    0.00
1994            PAMA (Indonesia)       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1994            PTPAMA                 0.00       .71      0.00       0.00      0.00       .71     0.00     0.00
1994            PT Saripuri            5.78      0.00      0.00      12.00      5.78      0.00     0.00    12.00
1995            PT ABS Finance         0.00      1.31      0.00       0.00      0.00      1.31     0.00     0.00
1995            PT Bakrie Pipe        17.14     0.00       9.50       0.00     17.14      0.00     9.50     0.00
1995            PT Bunas               5.54      0.00      0.00       1.45      5.54      0.00     0.00     1.45
Finance
1995            PT Grahawita          0.00      0.00      5.00        0.00      0.00      0.00     5.00     0.00
1995             PT Hotel Santika      6.75      0.00      0.00       0.00      6.75      0.00     0.00     0.00
1995            PT KIA Serpih         15.00      6.35     0.00      49.50      15.00      6.24     0.00    49.50
1995            PT Panin Finance       5.14      1.93     0.00        6.00      5.14      1.93     0.00     6.00
1996            PT Dharmala           20.00     0.00      0.00       10.00     20.00      0.00     0.00    10.00
1996            PT Pramindo Ikat      25.00      8.18    25.00      300.00     25.00      3.69    25.00    70.00
1997            PTAdeSAlfindo         10.29      3.53     0.00       19.71     10.29      3.53     0.00    19.71
1997            PT Alumindo           19.31     0.00      0.00      20.00      19.31      0.00     0.00    20.00
1997            PT Astra Dian         0.00       1.07      0.00       0.00      0.00      1.07     0.00     0.00
1997            PTAstra Graphia       0.00      2.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      2.00     0.00     0.00
1997            PT Bank NISP          10.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     10.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1997            PT Berlian            22.00    20.00      0.00       68.00      2.27     16.65     0.00     7.00
1997             PT Kalimantan        20.00     15.00      0.00       6.00     15.56     15.00     0.00     4.67
1997            PT Karabha            0.00      10.43     0.00       0.00       0.00     10.43     0.00     0.00
1997            PT Sayap              10.00      0.00      0.00     20.00      10.00      0.00     0.00    20.00
1997            PT Wings               8.68      0.00      0.00      21.32      8.68      0.00     0.00    21.32
1999            PT Megaplast          11.50     2.50      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:         381.29    145.47     41.33     756.79    330.62    131.92    40.94   464.46
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan     Equity    Quasi      Partic
1995            PT VISCOSE II          0.00      5.00      0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                        5.00      0.00       0.00



Page 64
INDONESIA
Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
Annex 11
Indonesia at a Glance
911 7/98
East    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                     As t&     mtddte-            --
Indonesia      PacIfic   Income.        Development diamond'
1 997
POpulation, mid-year (mIllions)                             200.1       1,753       Z2,25                    Life expectancy
GNP per capita  WAtas method, UJS$)                         1,11          970       1,230
GNP (Atlas mefhod lUS$ dillons)                             222.1       1 707       2,818
Average annual growth, 1901-97
Population (%j0                                                1.6         1.3        1.2
Labor force f%4,                                               2,5         1.4        1.3       GNP                                   Gross
per                                 primary
Motrareo,f estlmate (latest year available. 01-9714f                                             aiaerlmn
Poverty el. airpopulation belowratornelpo ertfyine) 11          1
Urban poputaton(   tltlpp lfOn                                 37          32          42
Life expectanc at birth  (years)                               65          69          69
Infant mortality (pert1000fliv births)                         47          38          38
Childmatlinutritlion (% .ofchildren under 8)                   40           16          ..Access to sate water
Access to;safe water (% of populatlbn)                          62          84         84
Illiteracy (%/otPopulation age15.)i                            16          1 7         1 9
Gross primary enrollment  (%osho-gplto)                       1 14        115         111            - Indonesia
Male                                      117         118~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  116        Lower-middle-income group
Fefmale                                                     112;        116        113
KEY ECONOMIC RATnos and LONG-TERm TRENDS
1976      1986        199e       1997
Economtc ratios'
GOP fUS$ billions)                                 39.3       79,9      227,4       214.6
Gross d0rmestia investmentlGOP                     24.1       26,7        30.8       32.1
Exports of goods and services/GOP                  24.8       20,,2      25.8        28,1Trd
Gross domestic savings/GDP                         27, t      28,3        30.2       30.9
Gross national savingsIGOP                            .                  25.5
Current account balance/GOP                           ..         ,         3.5       -1,2       Doeic                            Ivsmn
Interest paymentslGOP                                1.2       3.          2.2        2.7       Doetcnvsmt
Total debt/GOP                                     36.8       537        307         64.        Savings
Total debt.service/exports                                      .,        35.5
Present value of debt/GDP                                       ..        55.0
Present value of debtlexports                          .         .       0,
Indebtedness
1976406   1987497      1996        1997    1998-02
(average annual growth)I
GDP                                       6.7        7.8       8.0         4.6                            Indonesia
GNP per capita                            4.1       6.1        5.8         35                             Lower-middle-income group
Export of goods and serlvices            &17        87         6,3         6.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
I% of GDP)                          ~ ~~~~~1976  1986       1996        1997       Growth rates of output and Investment %
Agriculture                                        29.7       24.3        16.5       16.1
Industry                                           34.1       33.8        43.2       43.9
Manufacturing                                     10.4      16.6        25.5       25.6
Services                                           36.3       41.9        40.3       40.1
Private consumption                                63.5       62.6        62.3       62.2               92    93    9t    95    96    57
General govemment consumption                        9.4      11.1         7.6        6.9                                   __
Imports of goods and services                      21.5       20.5        26.4       29.2                        Got GDI         GOP
(average annual growth)                         1976-86   1987-97        1996        1997       Growth ratea of exports and Imports(%
Agriculture                                          4.1       3.2         3.2        0.6      25T
Industry                                            6.5       10.0        10.5        5.6
Manufacturing                                     14.5      11.0        11.7         6.2        IQ
Services                                             6.7       7.9         7.2        5.3      i
Private consumption                                10.0        7.9         7.4        7.5        -
General government consumption                       9.2       3.9         3.6        0.1       5
Gross domestic investment                          10.6       10.6        1 1.8       4.2              92    93    94    95    98    97
Imports of goods and services                        7.3      11.2         9.6       18.2                       Exports    -*-imports
Gross national product                               6.2       7.9         7.5        5.1 
Note: 1997 dats are preliminary estimates. 1/ Poverty estimate is from 1990.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will



.:  p.    ~~~CHINA       z/    *'    OR-TH 'PAtiCB.fC
IN  DO  NE S IA                                                            MYANMAR   4ttn                                  O.CEAN
DECENTRALiZED AGRICULTURAL AND                                                                                          PR        1 '5
FO R EST RY EXTE NS I ON P ROJ ECT                                                                          tHIw4    e
&     PROVINCE CAPITALS                           '          AAY t/: -.':.:
This mapw<:$produced by the                                                         IO ROICS NATIONAL CAPITAL .     
Mop Design Unit of Th. World Ban. 9 S  .  
Th onaiscolors,denorminaotins  l       _PARTNER PROVINCES-PRVNEBUDIS: \   tj.  : 
,.d onyo1h.erinf.omti-n shw-n                                                                                                                        5         -       -A             o
this mup do noti-;mtup0ay, ogmn thPat                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES            {       Pt! ?w      i     8 - D E   1v
on th. legalstatus of any territory ar: CAh                                                                                                    .-                .7    f urS7 
any end-remenf or accepta-ce of                                                                                            -                                    s.            ..   
such boundaries.                                                                                                       I 7t  r  e 
957~~~~~~o 4410  \t5                                  T                  t1   . f           1204                       \;tTe1
.t d ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hllUl S i cBi                    iiI  W                                   }      *                             I
44  4<;t,  i4 0 K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CA11  2 , * vsx,,g jowArd                                           imct  To
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I -10                                                                 SUB ,i,                         9                         S.g<Z  Jw TT1MOe  j4 &v  S jos104- _
O  0 200, 400 6Q0 800KitDMETERS - t; ,,,@ AUSTRALIA x~~~~~~~~~~~ea                                       ~                      Noklu         0, .,i 56f
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                     $_ suao                             , ln21  --iTq.
a ~      ~~~          ~         ~~~         ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ .0 Iol~ 2I Nu. TIgqr i                                                                                            8If  I.I



