Report No. PID7519
Project Name                     Indonesia-Decentralized Agricultural and (@)
Forestry Extension Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       IDPE59930
Borrower                         Republic of Indonesia
Coordinating Agencies            National Center for Agricultural Extension,
Ministry of Agriculture and
National Center for Forestry and Estate Crops
Extension, Ministry of Forestry and
Estate Crops
Implementing Agencies            1.  District Governments of two participating
districts each in the Provinces of Central Java, D.I.
Aceh, D.I. Yogyakarta, East Nusa Tenggara, North
Sumatra, North Sulawesi, South Kalimantan, South East
Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, and West Nusa Tenggara
2. National Center for Agricultural Extension,
Ministry of Agriculture
3. National Center for Forestry and Estate Crops
Extension, Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops
Date this PID revised            July 29, 1999
Appraisal Date                   April 26, 1999
Board Date                       August 31, 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      Until mid-1997, Indonesia has enjoyed its 30th year of virtually
uninterrupted rapid growth, low inflation, and declining poverty. In the last
year, however, the country witnessed a dramatic turn around of events. The
nominal value of the rupiah fell at one point by 80%, annual inflation reached
almost 80%, the economy swung from rapid growth to even more rapid
contraction, and unemployment and underemployment increased. As the crisis
continued, Indonesia was hit by the worst drought of this century and by a
collapse of regional demand. Indonesia's weak institutional infrastructure
has now become one of the main constraints to recovery. Many weaknesses in
public sector institutions stemmed from: (a) the highly centralized nature of
decision making and lack of autonomy at local government levels; (b) an
underpaid civil service; (c) a lack of transparency in budget preparation; and
(d) weak audit arrangements. The social gains in the past, including
significant poverty reduction, are now at risk of being reversed. Poverty has
increased from about 10% in 1997 to about 14% (almost 30 million people) in
1999. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) progress report of February 1999
cites three objectives of the Bank's current program in Indonesia: (a) to
stabilize the economy, (b) to protect the poor, and (c) to introduce
structural reforms.
2.      The results of a recent Bank-supported review (February 1999) of the



availability of credit and input supply in ten participating districts
indicated serious input constraints but these were generally long-term
structural or institutional in nature which have only been marginally worsened
by the economic crisis. The study recommended: (a) focusing additional
resources on potential crops; (b) giving priority to more broad-based
application of existing technologies; (c) focusing on technologies which
involve low cost and low risk but have high pay-off potential; (d) emphasizing
improved management changes which do not require additional operating capital;
(e) ensuring that production-based initiatives are market-driven. The farmers
are, and will increasing be, confronted with changes in market conditions and
input availability. The farmers in the project areas would need assistance in
coping with these drastic changes.
Project Objectives
4.      The main objectives of the Project are to enhance farmers' capacity to
participate in extension activities and improve the capacity of the district
integrated extension system to promote economically viable, environmentally
sustainable, and socially acceptable farming practices and increased farmers'
income. The planned capacity building goal and the major changes needed to
redirect the district extension system would take time beyond the project's
time frame. However, the Project will assist the Government in initiating the
needed institutional, policy and management reforms and in refocusing the
integrated extension program to address specific constraints in the main
farming systems and farmers' needs and priorities.
5.      The means to attain these objectives would be through:    (a)
revitalization of farmer groups and organization of farmers' networks, and
training of farmers, farmer trainers, and technicians; (b) testing and
promotion of participatory extension methods and provision of media and
technology support for farmers; (c) introduction of institutional and
management reforms and build the capacity of district extension staff; (d)
strengthening the district extension support and delivery systems, including
construction and upgrading of extension facilities; (e) improvement of the
central policy analysis and dialogue and carrying out of special studies; and
(f) strengthening of the central extension support systems and provision of
technical assistance and project management support to the district
information and extension centers. These activities would be carried out by
farmer groups and networks and by the extension staff in collaboration with
partners from the private sector, public sector support units, non-government
organizations, universities, and farmers' organizations such as water users'
associations, in a contracting or cost-sharing arrangements.
Project Description
6.      The Project will be initially implemented in ten pilot districts in five
provinces (East Nusa Tenggara, D.I. Yogyakarta, North Sumatra, South Sulawesi,
and South East Sulwaesi). After 12 months, ten partner districts in five
provinces (Central Java, D.I. Aceh, North Sulawesi, South Kalimantan, West
Nusa Tenggara) would participate to implement key activities and start
mainstreaming successful extension approaches and tools to other areas.
7.      The Project would test and promote approaches, procedures and tools to
- 2 -



ensure that farmers participate in and to lead extension activities by
enhancing their knowledge base, strengthening their organizations, and
ensuring their participation in determining the use of extension resources.
It would build on the already decentralized agricultural extension system,
which was reorganized in 1996 to integrate the extension units in the isolated
sub-sectors of food crops, livestock, and fisheries. It would strengthen the
linkages of agriculture to forestry and estate crops extension to focus on the
integration of trees in the farming systems (agro-forestry). It would
encourage partnerships with private sector entities, non-government
organizations, universities, and farmers' organizations in areas where there
are well developed activities to reduce duplication of effort. It would
strengthen the research-extension-farmers linkages to improve the quality and
relevance of technologies, train farmers and extension workers in their
application, and consider the special attention to the needs of women farmers
and rural youth.
8.      The Project would consist of two main components and a small central
support component as follows:
(a)     Component 1. Enhancement of farmers' capacity to participate in and to
lead extension activities
Component 1 would aim to empower farmers to identify their own farming
priorities and extension needs and problems, and to participate in an
integrated extension program at the sub-district and district levels. It
program would consider the special needs of women farmers and rural youth.
The Project will support three main sub-components: (1) revitalization of
farmer groups and organization of farmers' networks to effectively influence
extension; (2) building of capacity of farmers to participate in and to lead
extension activities through training of farmers, farmer trainers, and farmer
technicians; and (3) testing and promotion of participatory, farmer-oriented
extension methods and provision of media and technology support for farmers.
(b)     Component 2. Strengthening the district extension system
Component 2 would aim to introduce reforms in the district-level
extension system and build the capacity of extension staff. It will
strengthen the linkages of extension to other district organizations
especially to the district forestry and estate crops extension system, the
research and technology assessment institutes, and the training centers. The
Project would support three main sub-components: (1) introduction of
institutional and management reforms at the district level; (2) building the
capacity of extension staff in the participating districts through training;
and (3) strengthening the district extension support and delivery systems in
participating districts.
(c)     Component 3.  Provision of central extension policy and project
management support
Component 3 would aim to strengthen the central extension policy
capability and central extension support systems, such as the management of
information system (MIS) and the monitoring and evaluation system (MES). NCAE
and NCFECE staff and specialists from the technical assistance team would
provide technical and management backstopping to the district extension
-3 -



centers and farmer groups and networks. The Project would support three sub-
components: (1) improvement of extension policy and conduct of special
studies; (2) strengthening the central extension support systems, including
degree and non-degree training; and (3) provision of technical assistance and
project management support to the district implementers.
Financing
9.      The total project cost is US$23.57 million with SDR 3.8 million
equivalent credit component and US$18.0 million IBRD loan component.
TABLE AVAILABLE IN THE INFOSHOP
Project Implementation
10.     The Republic of Indonesia would be the Borrower.    The District
Governments of two participating districts each in ten provinces would
implement the Project as follows: Kupang and TTS (East Nusa Tenggara), Bantul
and Kulon Progo (D.I. Yogayakarta), Labuhan Batu and Simalungun (North
Sumatra), Gowa and Maros (South Sulawesi), Kendari and Kolaka (South East
Sulawesi), Aceh Barat and Pidie (D.I. Aceh), Banyumas and Magelang (Central
Java), Bolaang Mogondow and Minahasa (North Sulwesi), Kota Baru and Tanah Laut
(South Kalimantan), and Bima and Lombok Barat (West Nusa Tenggara).
11.     At the district level, an inter-agency District Extension Committee
(DEC), chaired by BAPPEDA Kabupaten (District Development Planning Agency),
would provide guidance to the extension center (BIPP). The District Head
would appoint the BIPP Manager, re-deploy extension workers and support staff
to the BIPP, and approve the BIPP budget and local counterpart funds. The
BIPP/BPP in each participating district would be the main project
implementers. The BIPP Manager would be accountable to the District Head for
project implementation. A District Project Implementing Unit, headed by a
District Sub-project Manager (Pimbagpro), will be established at each BIPP to
coordinate activities and manage the project.
12.     Overall central level coordination and policy support will be provided
by the National Center for Agricultural Extension (NCAE), as lead agency, in
collaboration with the National Center for Forestry and Estate Crops Extension
(NCFECE), which will be responsible for forestry and estate crops extension.
A joint DAFEP Team, based at NCAE, will provide guidance to the BIPPs and
periodically monitor and evaluate the implementation of district activities.
An inter-agency Central Extension Guidance Committee, chaired by BAPPENAS
(National Development Planning Agency) will be established to provide policy
guidance, inter-agency coordination, and budget allocation at the national
level. A central Project Management Unit, headed by a Project Manager
(Pimpro), will be established at NCAE to provide overall coordination.
Project Sustainability
13.     The key activities for enhancing project sustainability would include:
(a)     Empowerment of farmers.    Farmer groups would prepare and implement
village-based action plans and participate in the sub-district and district
extension program; organize farmers' networks to share information and
technologies with other farmers; train farmers, farmer trainers and farmer
- 4 -



technicians; and develop farmers' own media materials and carry out targeted
media campaigns to support the farmer-to-farmer extension program; and to
implement farmer-managed activities.
(b)     Capacity building.    The Project would strengthen the capacity of the
district and sub-district extension staff to plan and implement the district
integrated agricultural and forestry extension program. It would introduce
institutional and management reforms and strengthen the linkages between
research, extension, and farmers' groups and build partnerships with private
sector entities, non-government organizations, universities, and farmers'
organizations, such as water users' associations and other groups. The Project
would support the training of extension managers, field extension workers, and
support staff.
(c)     Sustained budgetary support.    One key factor for success would be the
provision of sustained extension budget from district allocations (APBD II
DIP) and ensuring that the district extension budgets are maintained after the
Project is completed. The Project would support joint activities under the
public-private sector partnership program and encourage cost-sharing of these
activities with partner organizations.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
14.     The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) progress report of February 1999
cites that recovery from the serious economic crisis in the past 18 months is
hampered by weak institutional infrastructure. The Bank's program to help the
country meet the new challenges includes the strengthening of institutions to
support sustainable growth, including public sector reforms to improve its
efficiency and transparency. The Project would support reforms of the
decentralized extension system. Past Bank-supported extension projects in
Indonesia assisted the Government in establishing an agricultural extension
system based on the training and visit (T&V) approach. Such support included
substantial capacity building of human resources and extension facilities in a
highly centralized extension system. Lessons learned from previous projects,
which are reflected in the project design, are:
(a)    Farmers and stakeholders' participation.    A more effective way of
assisting farmers would be for them to decide what they want and provide
incentives for extension workers to deliver relevant information and services
in a timely manner. The Project would build the capacity of farmers to
participate in and lead extension activities, assist them to organize farmer
networks, and train farmers on the application of improved farming practices.
The Project would promote the participation of farmers, including women and
rural youth, and other stakeholders in planning, monitoring and evaluation of
extension activities as well as the performance evaluation of extension
workers.
(b)     Fragmented extension system.   The fragmented extension units, with
separate agricultural support service offices (Dinas Food Crops, Livestock,
and Fisheries), may not be the appropriate structure to address a
decentralized, farming systems-based, and participatory support system needed
by farmers.   The responsibility for estate crops had been moved to the
Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops in the 1998 reorganization. The Project
would support the integration of extension services through the relatively new
district information and extension centers (BIPPs) and strengthen its linkages
- 5 -



to forestry and estate crops extension, research and technology assessment
institutes, and training centers.
(c)     Institutional and management reforms.    Institutional reforms, such as
establishing an integrated extension center, is not sufficient without the
accompanying improvements in management to ensure transparency and reduce
corruption. Changes in personnel policies, including an improvement of the
incentive system are critical in motivating extension workers. In the long-
term, the goal is to develop a leaner and better skilled professional
extension staff with a different orientation.
Poverty Category
15.     The social gains in Indonesia over the past 30 years of significant
poverty reduction is now at risk of being reversed because of the serious
economic crisis.   Poverty has increased from about 10t in 1997 to about 14t in
1999. One objective of the Bank's current program is protecting the poor by
ensuring the availability of food, supplementing purchasing power of the poor,
and preserving critical social services. The Project will support this
poverty alleviation objective and the government strategy to focus on the
lesser developed areas (in kawasan andalan), particularly the eastern islands,
as six of the ten participating provinces are in this region. The Project
would improve access to extension services by poor communities and households,
provide extension advice to farmers based on their specific needs, and focus
on revitalizing inactive groups and improve their access to extension,
including women farmers, subsistence farmers, and rural youth.
Environmental Aspects
16.     The Project is classified as a category "C" Project.    This is a
training and capacity building project whose main focus is to train farmers
and extension staff. It is not expected to have negative impact on the
environment. The project design incorporates activities which address
environmental issues and the information and technologies to be promoted would
be based on participatory assessment and planning with farmers and other
stakeholders. The integration of agriculture and forestry in the district
extension program would ensure that the extension system improves the
management of deforested areas and other critical areas by emphasizing tree
crops in mixed farming systems.    Limited on-farm testing and demonstrations
of environment-friendly technologies, as part of the teaching process, by
demonstrating how the technologies work on farmers' conditions. These
technologies include integrated pest management, conservation farming,
integration of livestock with shrubs and trees in the farming systems, contour
farming, fertilizer recommendation based on soil analysis, zero tillage, and
related topics. Where appropriate, biodiversity issues, forest management,
and forestry regulations would be included in extension messages, training
courses, awareness seminars, and other project activities.
Program Objective Categories
17.     Capacity Building (CB)
Contact Points:
-6-



Dely Gapasin
Task Manager
(202) 458-2363
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 30, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 7 -



