                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                         Report No: 33582

                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (IDA-32800 TF-26727 SCL-45100)

                                                   ON A

                                                  CREDIT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.8 MILLION (US$5.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                  AND A

                                                   LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$13.0 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                  FOR A

           DECENTRALIZED AGRICULTURAL AND FORESTRY EXTENSION PROJECT




                                            November 25, 2005




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Office
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office

 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective as of Closing Date, March 31, 2005)

                                                   Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
                                                         Rp. 7,500 = US$ 1 At Appraisal
                                                            US$ 1 = Rp. 9,540 At Implementation Completion

                                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                                       April 1 -  March 31

                                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIAT      Assessment Institutes of Agricultural Technology       ICR     Implementation Completion Report
APBD      Annual Central Government Development Budget           IDA     International Development Association
APBN      National Development Budget                            IPM     Integrated Pest Management
BAPPENAS  National Development Planning Agency                   KIPP    District Center for Agricultural Information
BDP       Agricultural Education and Training Center -                   and Extension
          Balai Diklat Pertanian                                 M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
BIPP      District Center for Information and Extension -        MES     Monitoring and Evaluation System
          Balai Informasi dan Penyuluhan Pertanian               MIS     Management Information System
BPP       Sub-District Extension Center -                        MoA     Ministry of Agriculture
          Balai Penyuluhan Pertanian                             MTR     Mid Term Review
BPTHP     Food Crops Plan Protection Regional Center -           NCAED   National Center for Agricultural Extension
          Balai Proteksi dan Perencanaan Tanaman Pangan                  Development, Ministry of Agriculture
CATS      Community Audio Tower Systems                          NCFE    National Center for Forestry Extension,
CEGC      Central Extension Guidance Committee                           Ministry of Agriculture
CIRAD     Center for International Co-operation in               NGO     Non Governmental Organization
          Agricultural Research and Development, France          PAD     Project Appraisal Document
DAFEP     Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension      PDO     Project Development Objective
          Project                                                PIP     Project Implementation Plan
DCA       Development Credit Agreement                           PIU     Project Implementation Unit
DEC       District Extension Committee                           PMU     Project Management Unit
DIP       Annual Budget - Daftar Isian Proyek                    POP     Project Operational Plan
EOP       End of Project                                         PRA     Participatory Rural Appraisal
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization                      PUSKAJI Center for Human Resources Development Assessment - Pusat
FEATI     Farmer Empowerment through Agricultural                        Pengkajian Sumber Daya Manusia Pertanian
          Technology and Information                             FET     Field Extension Team Pertanian
FFS       Farmer Field School                                    RKD     Village Action Plan
FITPS     Farmer's Information and Technology Promotion          RKK     Group Activity Plan
          Service                                                RKPD    Village Extension Plan
FMA       Farmer Managed Activity                                Rp      Indonesian Rupiah
GEGC      Central Extension Guidance Committee                   RUK     Family Agri-Business Plan
GoI       Government of Indonesia                                TA      Technical Assistance
HRD       Human Resource Development                             T&V     Training and Visit
HRIS      Human Resource Information System                      UPKG    Village Integrated Extension Management Unit
                                                                 WB      World Bank



                                                 Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                                               Country Director      Andrew Steer, EACIF
                                                 Sector Manager      Rahul Raturi, EASRD
                         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:              Shobha Shetty, EASRD

                                    REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                      Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project


                                 Implementation Completion Report




                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
    6. Sustainability                                                                17
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
    9. Partner Comments                                                              21
    10. Additional Information                                                       25
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40



Map IBRD # 30419

Project ID: P059930                                                  Project Name: ID-DECNT.
                                                                     AGRICULTURAL/FORESTRY EXT
Team Leader: Shobha Shetty                                           TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 25, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: ID-DECNT. AGRICULTURAL/FORESTRY                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-32800; TF-26727;
                            EXT                                                                      SCL-45100
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (46%); Other social
                            services (34%); Central government administration (20%)
                  Theme: Other rural development (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/15/1997                                     Effective: 11/01/1999                02/22/2000
     Appraisal: 04/15/1999                                         MTR: 07/01/2002                  03/06/2003
      Approval: 08/31/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Indonesia/Ministry of Agriculture
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Mark Baird
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader at ICR:             Shobha Shetty                                  Dely P. Gapasin
ICR Primary Author:             William J. Sorrenson (FAO/CP)
                                with inputs from Shobha Shetty;
                                Rahul Raturi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objective (PDO) was to assist the Borrower in enhancing farmers' capacity to
participate in and lead extension activities and in strengthening the capacity of the district-level integrated
agricultural and forestry extension system, which would promote economically feasible, environmentally
sustainable and socially acceptable farming practices and increase farmers' incomes.

3.1.1    Assessment:
The project objective was relevant and consistent with the government's policy thrust towards increased
decentralization, increased effectiveness of public services, encouraging self-reliance among rural
communities and withdrawal of its support where it is not needed or where it can be provided by private
sectors and others. The project was de factoa pilot project, even though it was not identified as such in the
project appraisal document (PAD), since it intended to test out new and more effective approaches for
extension which proactively involved the stakeholders. The pilot nature of the project is evident in the small
geographical scope (covering only 20 districts, later reduced to 16), the nature of the components, and the
timing, in that it came just before the "big bang" decentralization of 2001.

Drawing on the experiences of earlier pilot projects in Indonesia, it was recognized that: (a) effective
extension could be achieved through putting the farmer first; (b) reorganizing public extension where
district extension services of agriculture, forestry and fisheries are integrated; and (c) involving
non-governmental organisation (NGOs) and lead farmers as part of the extension effort. While the project
was not specifically identified as a pilot in the PAD, it was always seen as an instrument to test out new
approaches, recognizing the less than effective extension methods which had been tried earlier. It was also
designed in a politically dynamic environment, where signifcant changes in central and local government
relationships were being considered. In that sense, the project was really a pilot, intended to develop lessons
of experience on which a larger program could be based. This is also indicated the relatively short
implementation period planned for the project. The PAD correctly recognized that to implement these
changes and build institutional capacity within the public extension system would exceed the four-year time
frame of the project. It proposed to set the framework for change by assisting the government to initiate
required institutional, policy and management reforms. Selecting the outer (eastern) islands, where the
incidence of poverty is high, was in line with objectives of the government and the Bank to reduce poverty
and address inequality.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was structured into three components to implement and test reforms to extension at farmer,
district and central levels.

(a)      Enhancement of farmers' capacity to participate in and to lead extension activities (US$7.89
         million, 34 percent of total costs) to support: (i) the revitalization of farmer groups and
         organizations of farmers' networks; (ii) building farmer capacity to participate in and to lead
         extension activities; and (iii) the promotion of participatory extension methods and provision of
         media and technical support.




                                                     - 2 -

(b)     Strengthening the district extension system (US$11.16 million, 47 percent of total costs) to
        support: (i) the introduction of institutional and management reforms at district level; (ii) building
        the capacity of extension staff in the participating districts; and (iii) strengthening the extension
        support and delivery systems in participating districts.

(c)     Provision of central extension policy and project management support (US$4.52 million, 19
        percent of total costs) to support: (i) the improvement of extension policy and special studies; (ii)
        strengthening the central extension support systems; and (iii) the provision of technical assistance
        and project management support.

3.3.1   Assessment:
The project components/sub-components had clearly defined objectives which logically linked to the overall
PDO. The first component focused on enhancing the capacity of farmers to participate in and lead
extension activities, the second component emphasized strengthening the capacity of district-level extension
staff, and the third component provided extension policy and project management support, such that
responsibilities for implementation at the central, district, sub-district and village levels were clearly
delineated. Activities included in the three components incorporated lessons from previous Bank and other
relevant donor-funded projects. Institutional strengthening and support for decentralized district-level
extension services was consistent with the Bank's rural development strategy and the government's policy
thrust towards increased decentralization. Participatory methods involving farmer-led activities supported
by integrated extension services had already been field-tested in donor-supported development projects in
Indonesia and shown to be effective and to hold promise for improving the efficiency of public agricultural
extension. It was also shown that this new extension paradigm was effective in meeting specific needs of
farmers which vary according to the potential and opportunities that exist in different locations throughout
the country.

3.4 Revised Components:
While components were not changed, there was considerable restructuring of the project through
amendments to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). In April 2001, the number of project districts
was reduced from 20 to 16 when District Centre for Information and Extension (BIPP) offices were
abolished in four of the pilot districts. Because of delays in initiating project activities, the concept of
having 10 "pilot" districts in five provinces in year 1 followed by 10 "partner" districts in a further five
provinces in year 2 was abandoned and districts were thereafter referred to as "participating" districts. To
enable implementation of the farmer-led extension activities, which were referred to as "Farmer Managed
Activities" (FMAs), the DCA was further amended in June 2002: (a) to allow the direct transfer of FMA
grants comprising a Village Extension Plan (RKPD) to farmer groups through a Village Integrated
Extension Management Unit (UPKG), a committee of three persons elected by registered farmer groups;
and (b) to increase the proportion of Bank financing of FMAs from 80 to 100 percent. In May 2004, the
number of participating districts was increased to 21 as a consequence of three participating districts being
sub-divided.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Unsatisfactory. The overall project design was simple and correctly focused on the potential benefits of
farmers directing extension services to respond to their specific needs and opportunities. However, the
quality of preparation of the first two components was less than satisfactory.

The main driver for improving farm incomes was the adoption of successful technologies and collaborative
partnerships between farmers, farmer groups, extension workers, universities, NGOs, and private sector
processing and providers of marketing services identified through various FMAs. The design envisaged



                                                      - 3 -

FMA grants being channeled directly to farmer groups to facilitate farmer-led extension, but neither the
PAD nor the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) clearly defined implementation and institutional
arrangements for this vital component. No detail was provided on the selection procedures to be followed
for FMAs or on their management, or concerning to whom funds would flow at farmer group level.
Implementation of the project was delayed until the problem was resolved through the issuance of a
Ministry of Finance Circular Letter in June 2002 which authorized creation of UPKGs to whom FMA
grants could be paid. The design also failed to recognize the need to provide sustained training to farmers
and farmer groups, extension managers and front-line extension staff in farmer-led integrated extension and
the importance of training in farm budgeting and cost/benefit analysis.

Linkages between the first two components were not explicit and there was no provision within Component
2 for extension of the project's model to other villages and sub-districts. The capture and exchange of
emerging success stories and lessons from Component 1 would have ensured that other sub-districts were
aware of the benefits resulting from the implementation of the project and encouraged more interest and
wider participation. Project design recognized the need for supporting policy development and improved
project management. The PAD adequately assessed the risks associated with management of the project
through newly-established BIPPs where the project met its greatest challenge. However, suitable
contingency plans were not provided to cater for situations where BIPPs were unable to provide the
necessary institutional support.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The project has demonstrated the effectiveness of an integrated extension service at the
sub-district level and the benefits to both farming communities and front-line extension workers of
participative, farmer-led approaches to extension. Progress towards institutional change to support these
reforms was patchy and less evident. However, there has been recent progress on this front with the
proposed new Extension Bill to be tabled in the Parliament later this year that seeks to institutionalize
several reforms piloted under the project including: (a) a more participatory, demand-driven approach to
extension; (b) a shift from a production-oriented to an income-oriented agribusiness approach; (c)
development of partnerships/networks between agribusinesses, farmers, extension, research and training;
and (d) regulatory reforms to facilitate private extension. Because of the abrupt termination of the project
in March 2005, the Impact Evaluation Study which was to have been carried out in late-2005 was not
completed in time for the preparation of this ICR. While the M&E system monitored project inputs and
financial progress, it did not capture the extent to which the project increased farmer incomes, raised
farming system productivity or measured adoption rates of new and improved farming practices. The ICR
has therefore relied on focus group discussions, project completion reports, and a survey carried out in
May-July 2005 on the FMA component in three districts covering twenty-five villages and 221
respondents. In detailed focus group discussions with representatives of District Extension Committees
(DECs), Field Extension Teams (FETs), UPKGs and beneficiary farmers from farmer groups in a
cross-section of villages, the mission obtained data suggesting that the project has been extremely effective
in introducing farmer-led extension and in raising both the productivity and incomes of farmers who
participated directly in training activities (see Annex 3).

4.2 Outputs by components:
The overall rating is satisfactory based on the following assessments of each component.

4.2.1 Component 1. Enhancement of Farmers' Capacity to Participate in and Lead Extension Activities.
Satisfactory. The objective of this component was to empower farmers to identify their farming priorities



                                                      - 4 -

and extension needs, building their capacity with the ultimate goal to increase their incomes and improve
livelihoods while considering the special needs of women farmers and rural youth. This objective was
largely achieved, and in some cases the results were outstanding.

(a) Revitalization of farmer groups and organization of farmers' networks. Highly satisfactory.
Demonstrated benefits accruing to farming communities from farmer-led extension processes under the
project model were spread widely among participating villages and included: (a) improved household
incomes through productivity gains in existing crops and animals, introduction of new technologies, greater
productive use of house yards, and value adding; (b) linkages to agri-business thereby improving access to
credit, technology, animals, chemicals, fertilizer and seeds; (c) greater employment especially for women
and young people; and (d) access to, and being able to communicate directly with, research institutions,
Dinas and NGOs, through DEC representation.

The project provided the opportunity for bottom-up participatory planning and implementation of FMA
activities, which has provided `learning by doing' opportunities to groups of farmers in the participating
villages. There is a large variation in financial returns, investment costs, adoption rates and equity
considerations (numbers of poorer benefiting households and gender). There were some high income/high
cost activities (e.g., orchids, gurami fish and coconut jelly) to which large proportions of the FMA budgets
were allocated and which benefited very few farm families in the participating villages.            The high
investment/operating cost and/or long gestation periods of these activities have restricted their adoption to
only a few better-off households which actually received the training. By contrast, there have also been
other low cost key interventions with as little as 3-7 percent of the village FMA budget being allocated to
them for improving the skills of farmers which have benefited many families, particularly the poorer ones.
Examples include duck raising, catfish, bitter gourd, citrus, cattle fattening and local chicken improvement
which proved to be popular and financially viable as seen by their spread from 16 to over 50 percent of the
farmers in the villages concerned. (Table 1, Annex 3).

FMA activities have been classified into: (a) those requiring capital investment; and (b) those requiring only
additional operating expenses. For type (a) activities, the ratio of net benefit to incremental costs
(investment plus operating costs) range from 1.4 to 33.1 indicating that for every additional Rp1 spent
Rp2.4 to Rp34.1 are returned. For type (b) activities, the ratio of net benefit to incremental operating costs
range from 1.3 to 15.7. Expressed as a percentage return to additional cost, these range for type (a) from
40 percent to 3,210 percent and for type (b) from 30 percent to 1,470 percent. For example, in the UPKG
in the sub-district of Pattallassang in Gowa district, far away from the district headquarters with poor
roads, the farmers identified a training activity for building up a partnership with the help of an outside
expert and utilized an FMA grant of Rp 2.3 million (3 percent of the FMA budget). A total of 30 men and
20 women/youths attended this training which led to the development of several partnerships during the last
two years. Each of the seven farmer groups has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with
entrepreneurs located in Makassar for marketing corn, tapioca and paddy directly instead of going through
middlemen. Prices realized, net of transport charges, for paddy and cassava are 33-80 percent more than
before, while the price advantage for maize has been between 10-40 percent. Around 800 farmers from
this and neighboring non-project villages are estimated to have benefited from these partnerships, each
getting Rp 0.5 to 0.8 million incremental net benefits per year. More importantly, these groups are now
looking to develop new partnerships for getting access to credit-linked input supply for improving their
farm business opportunities. Technology transfer for better rearing of local chickens in Sendangsari UPKG
in Bantul is another example. Just by training farmers to carry out a very simple and easy management
practice of separating a hen from its chicks, each farm family which adopted this technique is earning an




                                                     - 5 -

additional income of Rp 1.35m per year and the technology has spread to more than 50 percent of the
farmers in the village.

The core extension activity proposed under the project was FMAs such as: (a) village assessments; (b)
farmer group and village planning; (c) farmer field investigations; (d) village inter-group meetings and
visits; (e) farmer media materials preparation and dissemination; (f) farmer technical and business
meetings; and (g) farmer-to-farmer training and technology dissemination. UPKGs, assisted by
farmer-group representatives, prepared village action plans (RKDs) to assist agri-business development
based on family agri-business plans (RUKs) and group activity plans (RKKs). UPKGs, again assisted by
representatives of each participating farmer group, established priorities for FMAs based on the number of
requests and according to guidelines based on equity, participation and likely outcomes. Priority FMAs
formed the basis of RKPDs which were submitted to Sub-District Extension Centers (BPPs) for
consolidation into sub-district extension action plans for discussion and endorsement by DECs. A total of
Rp 75 million was allocated to each participating village over three years (2002, 2003 and 2004) to fund
FMAs, except in Kulon Progo where each of the 80 villages was allocated Rp 37.5 million. These funds
were allocated irrespective of village size, quality of RKPDs or performance in previous years. In general,
participating villages were allocated Rp 30 million in years 1 and 2 and Rp 15 million in year 3 to fund
FMAs within approved RKPDs in accordance with PAD guidelines. Some district authorities varied these
allocations (e.g., in Gowa District, where allocations were Rp 11.5 million to Rp 48 million per village per
year with the upper limit having been applied in the first year, 2002). Towards the end of the project, the
Ministry of Agriculture supported the expansion to 220 other districts, with about 20,000 additional
extension workers trained in the project's concepts and principles, including participatory rural appraisal
(PRA). An additonal 80,000 farmers groups are also benefiting from FMA-type grants, albeit at reduced
levels of funding.

The first cycle of FMAs was started in most districts in September 2002 with sub-district extension
workers playing a leading role in their preparation. Understanding by extension staff, farmers and other
stakeholders of the project's principles and concepts was poor. Farmer participation rates were low,
planning processes were poorly understood and FMAs often had little relationship to better farm
management or improved profitability of farm enterprises. Nevertheless, many of these early FMAs proved
highly successful (Annex 3) thereby demonstrating to farmers what could be achieved. The second cycle of
FMAs was again delayed (until late in 2003), as was the third cycle, which commenced in November 2004.
Nevertheless, by 2005 most participating villages had enthusiastically adopted the project's model of
farmer-led learning. There had been a marked improvement in the quality of FMA submissions, associated
family agro-business plans and village action plans. Most participating villages visited by the ICR team
reported examples of high adoption rates following training and numerous examples of high returns to the
training investment (Annex 3). Isolated examples were noted where elite groups appeared to have captured
the FMA process for personal gain with limited flow-on to other village members. Participation of women
has increased dramatically under the project at all levels from farm budgeting, planning, income-generating
activities to village decision-making through UPKGs and representation on DECs.

Farming communities attempted to comply with the entire planning process with mixed success and some
found the process too complex, time consuming and unnecessarily bureaucratic. PRA outputs were done
once at the beginning of the process and either updated each year where necessary or, in some cases,
completely revised every year. Occasionally, FMAs were proposed not by farming communities but by
central authorities. Exposure to




                                                      - 6 -

farm business budgeting and cost benefit analysis was valued highly by all village communities. Training in
these activities, however, was not a core activity of the project. Linkages between farm business planning
and FMAs were not always clearly demonstrated, and the full potential of farm business planning in
exploring alternative farming systems and modifications to existing systems will take time and more
training to be realized.

The project's approach was extended to 40 villages in each of 16 districts (except for Kulon Progo district
where 80 villages were targeted) giving a total of 680 participating villages. Thirty-eight villages funded by
the central government's annual development budget (APBD) also adopted the project's approach. Local
authorities in several districts have also applied the project's approach to other villages especially Magelang
where all 370 villages are included. In December 2004, it was reported that 4,370 farmer groups were
participating representing about 83 percent of total groups (End of Project (EOP) target: 70 percent) within
these villages. Within these participating groups, about 177,000 households, nearly 50 percent of total
households (EOP target: 50 percent), participated in the project in 2004.

(b) Building capacity of farmers to participate in and lead extension activities. Satisfactory. At least two
people in each village were selected by village members to receive training and then to act as
farmer-trainers on the project's techniques for the remainder of the village. Some 1,345 men and 695
women were trained during 2001, 2002 and 2003 in participatory techniques, group dynamics and
preparation of family business plans, group action plans and village plans. In addition, some of these
received additional technical training in rice production and artificial insemination. Farmer trainers were
part of FETs along with extension workers and, where possible, NGO representatives. While farmer
trainers received no direct remuneration from government when providing assistance, some received Rp
10,000 per day from UPKGs using the project's operating funds.

UPKG members were trained in leadership, financial management and book keeping. Training was
provided by trained district extension staff with support from provincial extension consultants. UPKGs also
received direct hands-on assistance from members of FETs. The Bank proposed in 2002 that UPKGs
should define operating rules covering the terms of appointment and the rights and responsibilities of
farmers and their accountability. While guidance on preparation of these rules and draft examples of
UPKG rules were provided by the TA Consultant Team in May 2003, there is no record of these rules
actually having been prepared.

(c) Promotion of participatory extension methods and provision of media and technology support.
Satisfactory. Front-line extension is provided through FETs based in sub-districts and consisting of an
extension coordinator and extension staff from agriculture and forestry Dinas, farmer trainers and NGO
representatives. The role and functions of FETs were not explicitly defined in the PAD and were to be
evaluated as a possible participatory extension approach. However, their potential value was recognized
early in project implementation and these teams have evolved into essential components for successful
implementation of the project's model of extension. FETs have been established in each participating
sub-district, in some cases by Bupati decree but usually by BIPP or BPP managers. Their main tasks are to
implement the project's concepts within selected villages (usually 40 in each participating district), to
prepare sub-district extension plans, and to monitor, evaluate and report impacts of project activities at the
village level. The effectiveness of FETs in the implementation of the project's concepts at village level has
been outstanding. Initially, progress was difficult and this was to be expected, given the huge task of
changing an entrenched extension paradigm within the organization and then to take on new roles of
engaging farmers as partners to form UPKGs, to undertake PRA activities and to prepare action plans. By
the third planning cycle, farmers were enthusiastically engaged in preparation of extension action plans in
partnership with extension workers.


                                                       - 7 -

DECs have been established by Bupati Decree in 13 of the 16 participating districts to provide district-level
policy support for farmer-led extension, to facilitate flows of information to meet farmer demands, and to
assist in building linkages between farmer groups and NGOs, universities and industry. As such, DECs
could potentially play a pivotal role in the achievement of the project's objectives. While their objectives
rely on committee members representing all influential sub-sectors (government, NGOs, research institutes,
farmers, agro-business, etc.), most DECs remain dominated by government through an over-representation
(usually 50 percent or more) or perceived authority of government members, and as yet have largely failed
to realize their potential. DECs have not received information from BIPP or from the District Centers for
Agricultural Information and Extension (KIPPs) on actual benefits accrued from the implementation of the
project at farmer level except for verbal reports and, where DEC is active (e.g., Magelang district),
members have assessed the impacts of FMAs for themselves through farm visits. This information failure
significantly reduces the effectiveness of DECs in fulfilling their roles, such as establishing priorities for
extension effort.

Farmers and NGOs are enthusiastic about DECs: NGOs because of the information forum they provide to
focus and refine their district programs, and farmers because, often for the first time, they have direct
access to decision-makers. On the other hand, DEC meetings have often dealt with inconsequential issues
and failed to engage decision-makers who are often represented by staff members with no end-of-line
authority. There are examples of how DECs have facilitated engagement of research institutions in
partnerships with farmers to solve issue-specific topics. However, it will take time before these committees
mature and begin to tackle long-term, industry-wide or whole farming system approaches to improving
productivity. Partnerships with industry initiated through DECs have also begun to show benefit. For
example, farmers have been able to negotiate a direct marketing agreement for rice produced throughout the
Gowa district whereby they now receive 20 percent more for their product.

Some farmer groups have prepared their own printed media, mainly brochures and some posters with
support from the Farmers Information and Technology Provision Service (FITPS); however, the
universally preferred method of farmer-to-farmer transfer of technology is by direct observation.
Community Audio Tower Systems (CATS) have been piloted by the project in one village per district but
no assessment has been made of their effectiveness.

4.2.2    Component 2. Strengthening the District Extension System. Satisfactory. The objective of this
component was to reform district extension systems, build the capacity of extension staff and strengthen
linkages with other organizations.

(a) Introduction of institutional and management reforms at the district level. Moderately Satisfactory.
Decentralization is now accepted as a development strategy of Indonesia and led to a joint Ministerial
Decree in 1996 to establish BIPPs and BPPs to consolidate extension programs and staff of isolated district
agricultural service units for provision of sub-sector advice (food crops, estate crops, livestock, fisheries,
and forestry). The project aimed to strengthen this process, to facilitate team-building within and between
sectors, and to encourage staff to develop an integrated extension program using farming systems
approaches including agro-forestry.

Progress towards institutional reform has been patchy and dependent on the perceptions of local
government authorities on the importance of extension in raising agricultural productivity. In districts
where decentralized, farmer-led extension is working well, and benefits accruing from the application of the
project's principles are recognized, there has been strong support from Bupati and district parliaments in
the institutionalization of BIPPs (e.g., Magelang District Central Java and Maros District in South


                                                     - 8 -

Sulawesi). Following enactment of Law 22/1999 and revisions in Law 32/2004 which strengthened the role
of central government and rationalized numbers of district agencies, some BIPPs have been upgraded to
Echelon II and placed on equal status with Dinas. Where there is strong support for the project, funding has
also been provided for the expansion of its concepts to other districts (e.g., in Maros district Rp 800 million
for expansion to an additional 20 villages during 2005). Elsewhere, support is weaker but overall 75
percent of the participating districts retained the same Echelon level or were upgraded. In the four districts,
the BIPPs have become units under Dinas: Bantul, Kulon Progo, Kolaka and Kupang (Echelon III to
non-echelon), in effect restricting the career path and status of extension staff. Ten districts have
successfully reorganized their extension centers to integrate forestry and agriculture. All the participating
districts have established their DECs by decree of the bupatis. Again, the DECs performance has been
variable - some DECs still remain government-oriented despite the suggested ratio of 50:50 government
and non-government representatives. The DEC's coordination function across district institutions that
provide support services to farmers is weak in many districts. While there are many examples of dramatic
improvements in productivity and improved marketing arrangements resulting from implementation of the
project at village level, these outcomes have not been captured through the M&E process and therefore
have been unable to provide crucial support for extension centers.

Under the project, BIPP facilities have been improved through: (a) construction of offices/conference halls;
(b) refurbishment of existing offices; (c) construction of dormitories, training rooms, dining rooms and
kitchens; (d) construction of houses for BIPP heads; (e) provision of computers, media preparation
equipment, furniture and other equipment; and (f) provision of motorcycles and vehicles. These facilities
are adequate to cater for the needs of a modern extension center and are likely to remain functional and
active where they are closely integrated with existing agricultural/forestry facilities. This is less likely
where they are in remote locations (e.g., Kulon Progo and Kupang). In addition, 53 BPPs were upgraded
by the project and three by local government budget in participating sub-districts.

The development of linkages of the BIPPs/KIPPs with other institutions such as the Assessment Institutes
of Agricultural Technology (AIATs), training institutions, universities, NGOs, and the private sector
(especially those collaborating with farmer groups) was strong during project implementation. The
collaborative activities to bring research and extension closer were started during the earlier World
Bank-assisted Agricultural Research Management Projects and continued and expanded in this project.
Collaboration between AIATs and BIPPs/KIPPs was assured through a Memorandum of Understanding in
each districts that covered collaboration in planning and implementation and cost-sharing of identified
activities. Each AIAT appointed a Liaison Officer to support the BIPP in field implementation. Examples
of collaboration included, inter alia, soil testing and analysis, field testing of technologies, technical
guidance in media development and the preparation of technical manuals. Collaboration with training
institutions (Balai Diklat Pertanian - BDP) was aimed at developing integrated extension and training
program implementation. In 2000, a letter of agreement between the BIPP and BDP in each participating
district was signed stating that BDP agreed to provide technical guidance to the BIPP regarding training
needs assessment, curriculum development, and the conduct of training for extension specialists as well as
monitoring and evaluation.       The outputs of this collaboration resulted in training manuals, revised
curricula, instruments for training evaluation, and training modules. The collaboration with the Food Crops
Plant Protection Regional Center (BPTPH) aimed at strengthening the implementation of training and
Integrated Pest Management (IPM) program by farmers and extension workers. Again, this was assured by
a letter agreement between the BPTPH and BIPP in each participating district. The BPTPH agreed to
assign Field Pest Observers in the implementation of IPM in farmer field schools (FFSs) and the
development of biological control agents to improve biological control techniques and enhance the
production and use of parasites by farmers. The collaboration between BIPPs and BPTPH started in 2002
in the following activities: development of biological control agents, organic pesticides, IPM-FFS and


                                                      - 9 -

preparing manuals on IPM. Collaboration with the dinases - the district Agriculture and Livestock Service,
Forestry Service, Fishery and Marine Services, Estate Crop Service, and Food Security Service resulted in,
inter aliaprovision of farmer learning activities, soft loans, training activities for farmers and extension
workers, and assistance in providing certificates for farm products.

(b) Building the capacity of extension staff in the participating districts. Satisfactory. Through targeted
training, the project has made considerable progress in the transformation of front-line extension workers
who previously had little concept of participative, integrated approaches to extension, infrequent contact
with farmers and, consequently, often failed to meet farmers' needs.

Core training in participatory planning, participatory extension methodology, agro-forestry and gender was
provided to 14 master trainers by the TA consulting firm. Master trainers then passed on this training to 80
district extension staff in "train the trainers" workshops over two weeks in 2001. Trained district extension
staff, with the assistance of provincial extension consultants, then provided third tier training to other
extension staff and leading farmers in participating districts. Not unexpectedly, given the magnitude of the
task, this approach initially produced very mixed and usually less than satisfactory results, with second tier
trainers in particular not fully understanding the principles of participative approaches to extension leading
to distorted understanding of techniques and procedures by field staff. Refresher training in participative
approaches to extension was provided by the TA consulting firm over one day in 2003. In addition, a
manual was prepared by the firm in consultation with central working groups covering all aspects of
participative extension, agri-business planning, group action planning, group learning activities, and M&E
of implementation results. By the third round of FMA planning in 2004, there was a marked change in
attitude of extension staff and all staff interviewed by the ICR mission were strongly committed to the role
of facilitator rather than teacher. Farm extension visits had increased from as little as once a year to weekly
or even more frequent. The overall impact on morale and expertise of front-line extension workers has been
dramatic.

Changes in attitude, skills and career paths were to be achieved through training of extension workers and
supervisors, incentives for higher performers, and improved HRD (Human Resource Development) staff
evaluation and recording systems. Under the project, more rigorous performance evaluation procedures for
extension workers have been adopted in some districts (e.g., Gowa). These include assessment by farmers
and NGOs as well as management. High-performing extension workers are rewarded by certificate, more
training opportunities and additional credits towards promotion. Adoption of these morale-boosting,
status-raising activities is patchy. Other HRD initiatives proposed under the project have failed to deliver,
especially the computer-based Human Resource Information System (HRIS), which was to be the
centerpiece of the HRD plan. With few exceptions, HRIS was unable to provide management with useful
information on extension staff. A mid-term review of Agricultural Extension Institutions and Human
Resource Development was completed in 2003 which recommended extension of the project's concepts into
non-participating districts but had little impact on HRD policies or practices.

(c) Strengthening the extension support and delivery systems in participating districts. Unsatisfactory.
The project envisaged that information of interest to farmers would be disseminated through printed, visual
and audio media. It was intended that an FITPS be established at BIPPs to improve farmers' access to
information on technology, credit, markets and farmer network activities. Some media material has been
prepared at BIPPs as posters and CDs and distributed to farmer groups. It has been difficult to ascertain
how demand for the material was identified and farmer groups have not rated it highly. Similarly, there has
been little or no recognition of other services of FITPS. In many respects, DECs are providing a far more
relevant service in information and technology transfer and are more in line with the policy objectives of
enabling farmers to seek alternatives to government for advice and support.


                                                      - 10 -

A modest and practical management information system (MIS) and monitoring and evaluation system
(MES) were planned to support extension activities and project implementation. Almost without exception,
these systems have failed to provide reliable, current data. Furthermore, data that have been collected focus
neither on outcomes nor on adoption rates for new technologies introduced through the project. The
information collected by the MES was thus not useful for assessing the impact of the project, and
alternatives means have been used for this purpose as a result.

4.2.3    Component 3. Provision of Central Extension Policy and Project Management Support.
Satisfactory. The objective of this component was to provide central extension policy and extension
guidance and project management support to participating districts and overall project coordination.
Overall support by central management to district/sub-district activities of the project was adequate albeit
with some weaknesses.

(a) Improvement of extension policy and conduct of special studies. Moderately Satisfactory. The
sub-component aimed to develop a policy environment conducive for implementation of farmer-driven,
market-orientated, gender-sensitive decentralized extension leading to improved livelihoods for rural
communities. A Central Extension Guidance Committee (CEGC) chaired by BAPPENAS was established
as a required condition of the credit/loan agreement. It met at least annually, usually in conjunction with
each supervision mission. However, it had limited input into policy to facilitate or improve the project
objectives and inter-agency coordination remained weak.

The National Center for Forestry Extension (NCFE) incorporated the concept of community empowerment
within its five year strategic plan (2001- 2005). The Secretary General of the Ministry of Forestry has
taken the lead role in preparing and issuing to all district Governors a joint communiqu (June 2005), on
behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Fisheries and Marine, recommending a
`common-roof' for extension advice at the district level for the three ministries including a participative
approach to extension. Both initiatives are said to have been the result of experiences with the project,
although it is noted that the communiqu was not an initiative of the CEGC. The National Center for
Agricultural Extension Development (NCAED) has prepared a draft policy statement of objectives and
strategies for decentralized, farmer-driven agricultural extension, incorporating the project's principles,
which is yet to be formally adopted.

In 2001, the project commissioned an independent study of Gender Issues in Household Resource
Management and a study on Agricultural Extension Institutions and Human Resource Development was
completed by independent consultants in 2003. Other studies included an Assessment of Agro-Forestry
Extension (2001) and reviews of Agricultural Extension Institutions (NCAED 2002), Agricultural and
Forestry Extension Integration (NCAED and NCFE 2002), and Working Mechanism of Field Extension
Team (NCAED 2002). These studies appear to have had limited impact on policy development and project
operation.

(b) Strengthening the central extension support systems Unsatisfactory. This sub-component aimed to
improve decision-making processes through strengthened management information systems and project
monitoring and evaluation methods and procedures; documenting and publicizing strategies and impacts of
new extension initiatives; and improving the capability of extension staff. The central MIS and MES were
implemented in 2002 and redesigned in 2003 to incorporate the reduction of participating districts from 20
to 16. These data management systems have proved incapable of providing useful summaries of project
outcomes and have failed to inform management, to assist in extension planning and decision-making, or to
provide data to assess performance. There is poor correlation between the indicators identified in the


                                                    - 11 -

benchmarking study and those used in routine M&E and recorded in MIS. Field data has been unreliable,
slow to be provided, and in incompatible formats. Rapid turnover of field M&E staff and low priority given
to M&E activities among other duties have been contributing factors. Training in M&E at both central and
district levels has generally been inadequate.

Project activities were socialized in a special 2001 edition of the extension magazine Ekstensia, published
by NCAED. Training manuals on PRA, Farmer Managed Extension Activities, and agro-forestry
(including gender-sensitive manuals) have been prepared by the TA Consulting Team, through a central
technical committee from NCAED and NCFE, for use by provincial extension staff.

Twelve extension staff were selected (three central and nine district) for assistance with graduate training of
whom ten have now qualified. Of these, one focused on agricultural extension. A total of 590 extension
workers received training as part of the `train the trainers' program in topics such as management of
projects; extension and training; participatory extension methodology; facilitation techniques; data
management and media. Fifty five extension managers have taken study tours to China, the Philippines,
Thailand, USA, Vietnam and Malaysia. It would be useful to assess the effectiveness of this training in
planning future study tours.

(c) Provision of technical assistance and project management support. Satisfactory. The Project
Management Unit (PMU), with the assistance of the Sub-PMU from NCFE, has diligently managed the
implementation of the project and is to be congratulated on progress made in the challenging task of
changing the culture of extension throughout the government system from a top-down approach to one
driven and implemented by farmers. The central project manager of the PMU was assisted by a financial
officer, a procurement officer, an M&E officer and an administrative officer all allocated by NCAED to
the project as required by the PAD. Annual progress reports were provided for 2000 (in Bahasa Indonesia),
2002, 2003 and 2004 (in Bahasa Indonesia) and a Final Evaluation Report (January 1, 2000  December
31, 2004). In general, and given the constraints imposed by inadequacies in the MIS/MES, these reports
provided information to assess implementation status in terms of financial expenditure and input statistics
(numbers of people trained, manuals produced, committees established, etc.).

TA was provided to the PMU by a consulting firm from June 2001 until project termination. TA at the
central level included the development of technical guidelines, manuals and training curricular,
implementation of M&E systems, and analysis and development of policy guidelines. At the district level,
the TA team assisted the district Agricultural/Forestry Extension and Information Institutions and provided
training manuals and curricula, facilitated workshop and training activities, provided technical guidance to
district extension workers and implemented M&E procedures. The TA consulting team provided a total of
477 staff-months of TA by national consultants and an international consultant. Extension consultants were
provided in nine provinces covered by the project (S.E Sulawesi, N. Sulawesi, S. Sulawesi, Central Java,
W. Nusa Tenggara, E. Nusa Tenggara, N. Sumatera, D.I. Yogyakarta, Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam) on a
full-time basis from July 2001  February 2004. Six regional extension consultants continued until
November, 2004. The performance of individual consultants was evaluated annually by the PMU leading
to some replacements, while the overall performance of the consulting firm was assessed as satisfactory.
The performance of the TA team was a critical success factor in implementation and adoption of the
project's principles.

NCAED established six working groups (Training, Media, Program/methodology, M&E, Gender and
Institution) as counterparts to the TA team to support the PMU in the implementation of the project, while
the NCFE established an agro-forestry working group to support the sub-PMU. These working groups
relied heavily on the TA consulting team for information on the theory and practice of supporting


                                                   - 12 -

institutional change in extension and appear to have had little impact or influence on the institutional
environment for adoption of the project's principles at either central or district levels.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The PAD adopted a cost effectiveness approach to analyze the financial and economic viability of the
project based on ten participating pilot districts. The analysis was an over-simplification of the economic
impact of the project and was grounded on unrealistic and erroneous assumptions. The overall district level
annual growth rates (presumably of crops) over five years from project start-up were projected at 0.15
percent to 0.80 percent across the pilot districts to provide a break-even 20 percent rate of return on the
total project costs. The PAD concluded that the project was likely to be an attractive economic investment
(see Annex 3 for details of the analysis). The M&E in the project was ineffective and did not generate good
data, which has seriously handicapped the capacity for doing quantitative analysis for the purposes of the
ICR. However, even with better M&E data it would have been difficult to get a true measure of the
economic rate of return of the project because of dispersed implementation, the different technologies and
management practices that were tested, the different types of economic benefits likely to be generated from
the FMAs (which were not known a prioriowing to the pilot nature of the project), and the training, the
improved institutional linkages between extension and research, etc., benefits of which are difficult to
quantify.

The economic benefits of the project are therefore presented in terms of the villages and families directly
impacted and the results of models prepared based on field visits and intensive focus group discussions
with a wide variety of farmer groups for the purposes of preparing the ICR. It appears that the impact of
the project in terms of the number of villages and farmer groups that have benefited directly is considerably
less than was envisaged in the PAD. During project appraisal it was estimated that 9,323 farmer groups in
1,136 villages would directly benefit. However, in April 2001, when the number of participating districts
was reduced from 20 to 16, these numbers were revised downward (but not reflected in the PAD) to 7,458
and 909, respectively. At the end of the project, the number of farmer groups and villages that have directly
benefitted are 4,370 and 680, respectively; this represents 59 percent and 75 percent of the revised targets.
However, during the project implementation period an additional 80,000 farmer groups in about 220
districts have benefited from MOA-supported FMAs although at a reduced scale of funding. While some
impacts are already visible in terms of increased income to participating farm households, other benefits
will be realized as this innovative model spreads to other farmers within participating villages and to more
villages within the participating sub-districts. The economic benefits observed by the ICR mission are
substantial for some FMA interventions (see Annex 3), although the number of beneficiary farmers as a
percentage of total farmers in a given village varies widely by technology/management practice.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
The ICR mission covered more than 25 villages in six participating districts from four provinces to interact
with the project beneficiaries. Focus group discussions with FMA beneficiaries helped in generating the
data on the impact of 16 FMA-based interventions which were used to estimate the potential rates of return
to such investments. Unfortunately, for want of systematic project-level data on FMA categories and their
spread, these illustrative case studies could not be scaled up for assessing the project-level impacts.

The case studies represent FMA interventions covering diverse activities which include paddy, fish, ducks,
chicken, vegetables, coconut, cattle and bamboo production, value-addition and marketing-related
enterprises. For estimating the benefit to cost ratio, annualized investment costs are based on 10 percent
interest rate and 3 to 5 years of repayment period wherever appropriate.The ICR mission documented
several successful interventions which have provided significant financial returns to benefiting households
(for details see Annex 3). Substantial variation in financial returns and investment costs are evident across


                                                     - 13 -

the activities, as also are the measured adoption rates and equity impacts (number of poorer benefiting
households and gender). Financial rates of return vary widely among the 16 FMAs studied; measured net
returns for every additional Rp1 range from Rp2.4 to Rp34.1. Expressed as a percentage return to
additional cost, these vary from 140 percent to 3,310 percent. For example, citrus cultivation (using about
3 percent of the FMA grant) benefitted about a third of the farmers in the village with a net benefit to
annualized investment ratio of 33.1. Another successful example was the technologies adopted for
improved poultry rearing which benefitted over 50 percent of the farmers of the village, with a net benefit
to annualized investment ratio of 9.0. Rambutan selection, budding and production was also successful
benefitting 75 percent of the farmers using 13 percent of the FMA budget. Less successful was the orchid
cultivation where 29 percent of the FMA budget was utilized to benefit only 3.4 percent of the farmers.
Coconut jelly processing also benefitted less than one half-percent of the farmers but used 6.4 percent of
the FMA budget.

In the ex postevaluation of selected FMA activities covering 221 respondents in 25 villages ( 3 districts), 57
percent of those surveyed reported increases in incomes from increased crop and livestock productivity and
reduced mortality rate for livestock. Typical percentages of income increases were bananas (33 percent),
kangkong (35 percent), chillis (50 percent), livestock (55 percent), and corn (60 percent).

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the institutional impact of the project has been modest. The project had a very good impact on
institutional development at sub-district to village level and a more limited impact at the district-level. The
project aimed to build on and strengthen processes already underway throughout Indonesia to improve
extension services to rural communities. The project piloted new approaches to extension that have now
begun to be mainstreamed, as indicated by the 220 non-DAFEP districts that have adopted the DAFEP
principles and the drafting of the new Extension Law that incorporates many of the demand-driven elements
of DAFEP and draws partly on the experience of this project. National programs, such as Empowerment of
Farming Community which commenced in 2000, have been used by district authorities to complement
project funded activities. Notwithstanding the positive institutional developments supported by the project
the scale of the project was ultimately small covering less than 5 percent of the districts nation-wide,
consequently the overall impact has been modest.

There is an emerging recognition at the central level that a top-down approach to extension no longer meets
farmers' needs and that farmers must be assisted to take the lead in seeking information for themselves; this
requires a total change in approach and thinking towards one that is farmer-led, demand-driven,
location-specific, gender-neutral and addresses whole farming systems. This change of approach was
demonstrated by the success of the FET model which brought together extension workers from all
sub-sectors (field crops, livestock, estate crops, fisheries, forestry, irrigation, etc.), which are co-located in
BPPs and work at village level, assisted by leading farmers and NGO extension workers. Initially, these
teams failed fully to understand the concept of `working with farmers' and fell back on traditional
`teacher-pupil' roles. However, by year three of the project their understanding and acceptance of their new
roles were soundly grounded, leading to dramatic improvements in relationships with farmers and to
positive outcomes for both parties from these improved relationships. Sub-district heads report directly to
the Bupati, providing a direct line from FETs to the highest authority at district level.

At district level, institutionalization of integrated extension services remains tenuous but the new Extension
Law proposes to address some of the structural incentives. Some districts, recognizing potential benefits
from farmer-led approaches to extension using the project model, have supported integrated extension
centers through guaranteed finances and Bupati decree. In some cases, recognition extends to placing
BIPPs on Echelon II with the same status as Dinas, whereas elsewhere the status of BIPPs has been



                                                       - 14 -

down-graded and continued funding is not assured. A key role of the BIPPs is providing support for DECs
which, through the project, have emerged in some districts as important forums where representatives from
farmers, NGOs, research institutions and agri-business can meet with senior government officers to
exchange information and to provide much-needed direction for policy development, coordination and
prioritization of extension effort throughout the district. Further external support and clearer definition of
roles and responsibilities for both BIPPs and DECs is essential to consolidate progress. This is recognized
in the proposed new Extension Bill that will categorize all extension centers in the districts and provinces as
Echelon I in order to facilitate coordination and demonstrate the priority of extension services nationally
and regionally.     The project principles of integrated, farmer-led extension based on establishing
partnerships with farmers have been enthusiastically accepted by many front-line extension workers. Such
change requires extension workers to be trained in new extension methodologies of facilitation,
participative processes, media, etc. These extension workers require a whole systems approach to
agriculture including business management and marketing. They are not technical specialists but
generalists, and their role is one of facilitating technology transfer rather than providing this themselves.
Under the project model, technical expertise in specialist fields was provided by agri-business, research
institutions and relevant Dinas, facilitated by DEC. Management at the district level has yet to understand
and put these principles into practice. Outside the project, training for extension workers continues to focus
on acquisition of technical skills and not new extension methodologies.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The monetary crisis and currency devaluation affected counterpart funding arrangements and had a
negative impact on the timely release of government funds during project implementation. The general
elections and restructuring of public organizations during the first year of the project delayed
implementation by six months.

A major impediment to adoption of more profitable technologies and improved farm practices is the lack of
credit and while some innovative farming communities have found partial solutions, this remains a major
obstacle to progress.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) did not establish an effective MIS/MES system at the central
PMU/Sub-PMU or in the district PIUs to guide project management and to capture project impacts in
terms of improvements in the cost-effectiveness of extension services. The capacity and skills of M&E staff
were not upgraded to perform the expected role, which was further constrained by weak infrastructure in
many participating districts. There was also a disconnect between the benchmark survey and M&E
framework adopted by the central PMU. The project experienced problems with quality of technical
assistance on M&E throughout project implementation.

Reorganization of districts and agricultural support services, following decentralization and regional
autonomy laws introduced during 2001, necessitated the redesigning of the project and amendment of the
Credit/Loan Agreement including reallocation of categories, which delayed implementation. The delayed
release of Daftar Isian Proyek (DIP) (annual budget) every year reduced the effective working period of the
project by 15 months. These delays affected all project activities but most severely the entire sequence of
FMAs. There were delays during preparation of a Government Order to channel FMA funds directly to
farmer groups through UPKGs which was not available until August 2001. Implementation was delayed
during preparation of detailed training modules and implementation guidelines for conducting village PRAs,
preparing FMAs, and UPKGs, DECs and FETs, which were not completed until after May 2002.
Changing the financing arrangement whereby FMAs could be fully funded from the Bank loan (June 2002


                                                     - 15 -

amendment) did not prevent delays in the release of funds because these funds had to be included within
APBD budgets and, therefore, were still subject to lengthy approval processes.

The project had an original Closing Date of March 31, 2004. Based on a request from the government in
late-2003, this was extended to December 31, 2004 and later to December 31, 2005. Hence the workplan
was accordingly modified, including the carrying out of the Impact Evaluation Study which was planned.
However, the project was terminated earlier than planned, and rather abruptly, at the instruction of the new
Minister of Agriculture who assumed office in November 2004, as part of his effort to rationalize the role
of externally-funded projects within the MOA program. This resulted in great uncertainty within the
Executing Agency as well as Bappenas and Ministry of Finance. This uncertainty was not resolved till
early March 2005 when the official notification from the Ministry of Finance to the Bank proposed a
revised Closing Date of March 31, 2005. The delays in getting the Impact Evaluation started were
compounded by delays in budgetary releases resulting to the introduction of the new national financial
management law and systems by the Ministry of Finance in 2005.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The ICR mission, based on its field observations, concluded that targeting villages is just as critical as
targeting resource-poor farmers for achieving a significant impact on poverty reduction. Most of the
villages visited by the mission, with the exception of Kupang, are endowed with better resources.
Substantial variation was observed by the mission in terms of the number of people benefited through an
FMA; FMA interventions could have been better targeted to maximize the impact per unit of budget spent.

There is room for improvement in organization and operation of FETs: (a) information gathering and
reporting was either non-existent or so poor as to be of little value. There are abundant success stories
which show dramatic improvements in farmer livelihoods that have not been recorded and reported to
co-workers, other FETs, DECs, BIPPs, Bupatis and central management; (b) team-building exercises
within FETs are important to share experiences, learn from one another, and build morale; and (c)
operation of FETs remains focused on the technical specialization of individual extension workers and all
have received some form of technical training but not all have received core training in new extension
techniques.

The impact evaluation study was delayed following the unexpected termination of the project by the
Minister of Agriculture (described above). The Bank team secured the participation of Center for
International Co-operation in Agricultural Research and Development (CIRAD), the French research
organization that carried out the baseline study, to carry out the training and statistical analysis and
reporting of the impact evaluation, with the Government bearing only the costs of the survey per se.
However, even after the new Credit/Loan Closing Date of March 31, 2005 was agreed to, the implementing
agency created further delays by its indecisiveness regarding who would implement the survey - a private
firm or an agency within the Ministry of Agriculture. In April 2005, it was decided that the survey would
be carried out by the Center for Human Resources Development Assessment (PUSKAJI) in the Ministry of
Agriculture. However, after the initial training of the trainers was completed by CIRAD in May 2005, there
were further delays because of a change in the top management of the implementing agency when the
implementer of the survey was again put in question and there were delays in getting the budgetary
releases. The Bank received assurances in September 2005 that the survey would be implemented by
PUSKAJI and the data handed over to CIRAD for analysis by November 2005.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project started slowly with disbursement lagging well behind until the third quarter of 2003 (2.75 years
after project start-up) and picked-up thereafter. By the third quarter of 2003, disbursements were only 25



                                                     - 16 -

percent of the PAD projected target. By June 20, 2005, disbursements totaled US$16.59 million, some 92
percent of the total loan of US$18 million. The actual project cost was Rp 178.9 billion, 99.2 percent of
the appraisal estimate; expenditure in Component 1 (Farmer capacity enhancement) was 15 percent less
than the PAD estimate, while expenditure on Component 2 (Strengthening of district extension systems)
was 6 percent more than the appraisal estimate. There was a significant overrun in expenditure within
Component 3 (Provision of central extension policy and project management support) of 17 percent, mostly
within the sub-component of provision of TA and project management support, which was 44 percent more
than the PAD estimate. In dollar terms, US$16.59 million was disbursed as at June 20, 2005, which is 92.2
percent of the appraisal estimated loan/credit amount.

The estimated total project cost in 1999 at the time of appraisal was Rp 180.3 billion (US$23.57 million)
inclusive of contingencies. The IDA credit of SDR 3.8 million (US$5 million) was to finance 21.2 percent
of total project costs. At appraisal it was estimated that the Bank and government would finance 76.4
percent and 23.6 percent, respectively, of the total project costs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project model of integrated, farmer-led extension demonstratively generates impressive returns on
investment for rural communities and potentially offers considerable efficiencies in the delivery of
public-funded extension services. As such, the project model is itself eminently sustainable. It has been
expanded to 220 other districts, with about 20,000 additional extension workers trained in the project's
concepts and principles, including PRA. About 80,000 farmers groups are also benefiting from FMA-type
grants, albeit at reduced levels of funding. The present government has indicated its strong priority for
revitalizing agriculture in a vision articulated by the President himself. There is a new Extension Law in
process which draws on many of the principles piloted under the project with regard to farmer
empowerment, enhanced community participation, and the promotion of a multi-provider system of
agricultural extension. Recent national legislation, under Decree 32, 2004, has redefined relationships
between provincial -and national- level government and strengthened the authority of central government
which may improve the likelihood of national policies being adopted at district level. Under the new
Extension Law, the MoA would take a more pro-active role in supporting extension, with a greater role for
the provinces and better coordination at all levels. Success will depend on the willingness and capacity of
local governments. The Bank is continuing its engagement on this set of issues with the Farmer
Empowerment through Agricultural Technology and Information (FEATI) project under preparation which
would consolidate and expand many of the institutional reforms initiated under this project. Return on
investment to farmer groups for FMAs has exceeded all expectations, demonstrating that modest injections
of technical know-how and capital to information-starved rural communities have dramatic impacts on the
livelihoods of farmers and if extended more widely will lead to a second farmer-led revolution in
agricultural productivity. Thus, the core component of the project is eminently sustainable provided that the
necessary support is available to sustain what has been initiated through the project and to kick-start the
approach elsewhere. Given the current levels of support from central and district governments to continue
and expand the project model, the overall sustainability of project initiatives is considered to be moderately
likely, with the current actions taken to provide on-going direction, and additional technical and financial
support.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
For the participatory integrated extension interventions initiated through the project to be institutionalized
and sustained, much technical and financial support is required: (a) to strengthen and empower existing



                                                     - 17 -

farmer groups; (b) to strengthen FETs; and (c) to facilitate partnerships between farmer groups and public
and private sector service providers of technology, credit and other farm inputs, and processing and
marketing firms.

A Project Operational Plan (POP) has not been prepared for the 16 districts participating in the project.
Existing decentralized extension policy permits districts to develop their own extension policy so that the
preparation of a project POP would be a difficult undertaking. Some of the participating districts intend to
continue providing grant funding for FMAs, albeit at substantially lower levels of assistance per village
than that provided through the project, while others have decided that they do not have the resources to do
so. Magelang and Gowa Districts have allocated funds for maintaining their DECs and FETs; other
districts have either chosen not to do so or have budgeted insufficient resources to permit the proper
functioning of these institutions. Some, for example Kupang District, intend to spread the project's
participatory integrated extension concept to all sub-districts (28 from the 7 covered under the project) but
limited resources will prevent FMA grants being provided and continuation of the DEC is unlikely because
of budget constraints, although the intention of the local government is to continue to fund FETs.

The proposed FEATI project would consolidate and expand many of the institutional reforms piloted under
this project. FEATI would help implement the provisions of the new Extension Law that is expected to
become effective in 2006. This would include, inter alia, strengthening the DECs and provincial-level
extension units, and expanding and scaling-up coverage of FMAs.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Unsatisfactory. The Bank assisted the government to prepare the project over more than three years. A
social and gender analysis study was conducted by the Bank in August/September 1996, and a review of
extension incentives was made in June/July 1997, funded through the WB/FAO Cooperative Program. A
pre-appraisal and the first appraisal were completed in 1998. The project was put "on hold" in May 1998
by the government because of the prevailing severe economic crisis. The project was redesigned and
appraised for a second time in 1999. According to the Borrower, the Bank assisted the government project
preparation team on project cost calculations and in reviewing the PIP. However, the Bank did not insist on
a clear definition of implementation and M&E arrangements in the Borrower's PIP which considerably
delayed implementation of project activities, especially FMAs. In addition, quality at entry was
Unsatisfactory, mainly due to less than satisfactory quality of preparation of the first two components (See
Section 3.5).

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. Continuity of Bank staff and consultants and of the PMU/Sub-PMU and district Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) staff resulted in a good working relationship between them. The Bank
encouraged the Borrower to form working groups at central and district levels to monitor the progress of
Component 3 and Components 1 and 2, respectively, and to increase the awareness and ownership of the
project concept. There were 13 supervision missions at six-monthly intervals between December 1999 and
July 2005, during which the PDO and overall implementation progress were always rated satisfactory
except for the final supervision (desk study) in June 2005 which downgraded both the PDO and overall
implementation to moderately satisfactory. A mid-term review (MTR) was conducted in February 2003
which also rated overall progress as satisfactory. The Bank did not incorporate social or environmental
safeguards within the project. According to the Borrower's final project evaluation report, the Bank always
provided guidance on its financial and procurement procedures and always recommended solutions to



                                                     - 18 -

resolve problems encountered during implementation at central and district levels. Two workshops on
financial management and procurement were held by the Bank in 2003 and 2004 to exchange experiences
among project managers and staff of the project and other Bank-funded projects.

The Bank took a proactive stance insisting that farmers take the lead role in the preparation of RKPDs, in
the implementation of FMAs, and in clarifying how FMAs would be channeled to farmer groups through
the formation of UPKGs. Supervision missions assisted the Borrower in developing criteria to guide PIUs
in the selection of villages and in increasing the participation of women, and periodically raised concerns
over equity. The Bank raised concerns in supervision missions about the targeting of FMAs to poorer
communities and households; however, no solutions were provided. The Bank took an active stance in
mainstreaming gender through a two-year TA grant from the Japan PHRD Trust Fund which was initiated
in late December 2001 and aimed at ensuring equal access by men and women to all extension services. It
specifically targeted the capacity of the under-privileged and of women to improve participation in poverty
reduction initiatives in 50 villages covering ten districts (five villages per district) over six provinces.

Monitoring of project progress by the Bank was weak, and this affected the quality of supervision.
Supervision missions confined their interest to assessing physical achievements but no outcome or
results-based indicators were monitored and the Bank could have improved the poor outcome on the
MIS/M&E component through providing additional technical assistance. District performance ratings by
the Bank differed at times from those of the Borrower and were not necessarily reflective of field-level
experience. The June 2004 and December 2004 supervision missions suggested that "success stories"
should be documented to assist in the final evaluation of the project and to demonstrate the actual process
and institutional changes occurring in extension services and the substantial impacts being realized at
village level. The Bank was proactive in trying to have an impact assessment carried out before the ICR
mission, but the unexpected closure of the project made this difficult to realize. The Bank did introduce a
participatory rating system on project implementation which, according to the Borrower's final project
report, did motivate project staff to improve their performance.

For security reasons, the Bank was unable to visit the Kupang and Aceh Districts. In the case of Kupang,
project implementation performance under the supervision of the PMU/Sub-PMU has been commendable,
particularly in view of high rates of poverty and malnutrition within the district. These results were also
achieved despite the TA Consultant Team having very little contact with Kupang compared to the other
participating districts.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower utilized this project to initiate scaling-up of participatory farmer-led integrated
extension. According to the Borrower, the project was prepared fully by the government through
coordination by NCAED and NCFE, with the active participation of district officials, BIPP staff and
farmer representatives. The PIP and detailed district proposals were prepared by an interagency Project
Preparation Team organized by NCAED and NCFE. This initiative ensured good participation and
ownership of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. There were considerable delays in the first two and a half years of the project caused by: (a)
the unfamiliarity of the Borrower with the Bank's procurement procedures; (b) delays in approving the



                                                      - 19 -

annual budget (DIP) and the release of funds from the central (APBN) and district (APBD) budgets which
persisted throughout the project; (c) a lack of clarity as to how funds would be channeled directly to farmer
groups; and (d) an 18-month delay before awarding the TA contract. Adequate staff was allocated to the
project as required by the PAD and the Loan/Development Credit Agreement. The Borrower worked in
close association with the TA consultant team. The Borrower maintained a CEGC which met usually at the
end of each Bank supervision mission; it kept an overview on project progress but did not function as it
was intended to guide extension policy or to facilitate or improve the project's objectives.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The PMU, with the assistance of the Sub-PMU, and the district PIUs and BIPPs have
diligently managed the implementation of the project and are to be congratulated on progress made in the
challenging task of changing the culture of extension throughout the government system from a top-down
approach to one driven and implemented by farmers. Annual progress reports were prepared for 2000,
2002, 2003 and 2004 and a Final Evaluation Report for the period January 1, 2000 - December 31, 2004.
In general, these reports provided adequate information to assess the implementation status in terms of
financial expenditure and project physical outputs. The six Working Groups formed in Jakarta to provide
technical guidance for the project and to evaluate the performance of the TA consultants were also effective
in increasing the participation of NCAED and NCFE in the project and in taking ownership of the new
extension paradigm of integrated farmer-led extension. Focal points were established at district level for
each of the Working Groups. The DECs formed in the districts visited by the ICR mission, initially
dominated by government members, had all introduced representatives of NGOs, farmers and Chambers of
Commerce. These DECs have been advising District Heads (Bupatis) on extension policy and coordinating
integrated farmer-led extension activities, albeit with variations in approach and impact. Bank supervision
missions reported varying degrees of success of DECs, with some still being government-dominated.
Procurement was handled well with the PMU submitting to the Bank its Final Procurement Implementation
Report which satisfactorily recorded and summarized all procurement actions. In districts visited by the
ICR mission, FETs have been actively and successfully involved in coordinating the preparation of, and in
facilitating, the training activities for farmer groups and in integrating extension activities in response to
these activities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

True empowerment of farmer groups is attained only when they are given control of financial
resources to determine their extension needs. Technologies are available for small farmers that can
substantially raise their productivity and incomes if adapted to their farming systems. This demonstrates
that modest injections of capital to information-starved rural communities has dramatic impacts on the
livelihoods of farming families, and if extended more widely will lead to a second farmer-led wave in
increased agricultural productivity and profitability to follow on the heels of the Green Revolution.
Integrated, farmer-led extension drives the process enabling farming groups to access technology and
market information and to develop mutually beneficial partnerships with agri-business and other providers.

Multi-provider models, such as the FETs piloted under this project, greatly improve the
cost-effectiveness of publicly-funded extension. FETs, composed of government primary production
agencies and NGO extension workers together with leading farmers, are highly effective in: (a) showing
farmers how to organize and discover information for themselves; (b) enabling integrated farming systems
solutions to improve rural livelihoods; (c) facilitating the emergence of private sector extension and



                                                      - 20 -

adoption of "user pays" principles; (d) assisting government agencies and NGOs plan their activities to
meet farmer needs; (e) increasing the cost effectiveness of publicly-funded extension; and (f) encouraging
team building, and providing a focal point for specialist training in participative approaches to extension
and agri-business planning.

Management structures such as the DEC which are set up to coordinate extension activities at the
district level need both political and financial backing to survive beyond the life of the project. In
order that these structures be credible, the composition of the DECs should have a non-governmental
majority and decision-making should not rest with government authorities alone in order to ensure active
engagement of all stakeholders.

To ensure high adoption rates among farmers, extension activities should focus on introducing and/or
improving low-cost, highly profitable, market-led production and processing activities. Smallholders
with diverse integrated farming systems need to have access to easily accessible yet sustainable
technologies and management practices that are low cost, low risk and profitable with good market
potential. Any technologies which do not fit these criteria should not be included in the menu of
farmer-managed activities.

M&E systems need to be established and given due importance by the Government during project
design and closely followed during implementation. Continuous monitoring and evaluating of project
processes and impacts, with the active participation of beneficiaries and key stakeholders, are essential for
influencing policy and institutional change. Simple, practical M&E systems to assess institutional, social
and economic outcomes are important to showcase results to policy makers and to promote the adoption of
project methodology.

Timely budget flows from central and local governments to the project implementing agencies down
to field level should be ensured. Repeated delays in the release of budgeted funds from the government to
central PMU and district PIUs restricted the effective project period by nearly 25 percent, delayed
implementation processes and affected project outcomes as the result of compressing activities within
condensed time frames. Commitment from the Borrower with a defined time-frame and funds flow
mechanism should be included as a part of legal covenants of future projects.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments: The Implementing Agency has reviewed the draft Implementation completion Report (ICR).
After reviewing the Report, in principle, we have no objection to the results. Hopefully, lessons learned
from the project will be fruitful and benefited for the preparation of the Farmer Empowerment through
Agricultural Technology and Information (FEATI) project.

Summary of Borrower Evaluation Report: The project was implemented in a decentralized,
multi-sectoral manner with primary responsibility for the project implementation at district level for
purposes of ensuring ownership of the project to the local government and the rural community. The
purpose of this approaches was to ensure that the components of the project were implemented by the local
government and the activities, outputs and impacts after the project were sustained by the local government
and the community.      The central project manager provided logistics support to NCAE, NCFE and
Technical Assistant Team to provide technical guidance, monitor and evaluate project activities
implemented in the districts. At the national level, a Central Extension Guidance Committe (CEGC)
chaired by BAPPENAS and the members included representatives from the Ministry of Home Affair,



                                                   - 21 -

Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Forestry, and Ministry of Finance was responsible for providing
policy guidance and coordination, reviewing project progress, and resolving issues on overall loan
administration. To provide support to the CEGC and to coordinate project activities, a national project
management unit (PMU) was set up at NCAED of the Ministry of Agriculture, and at NCFE of Ministry
of Agriculture  a sub-project management unit was established to manage central supports in
agro-forestry extension development. A national Project Manager was appointed to manage the PMU to
perform the following tasks :

        To coordinate project planning and budgeting at national and district levels;
        To review and prepare annual work plans and budget;
        To monitor and evaluate project progress reports;
        To implement central level activities;
        To liaise with the Bank, administer loan disbursement and consolidate project accounts from
         participating districts.

The key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project included : (1) decentralized management
of district government and farming community; (2) linkage of agricultural extension and forestry extension
in the district and sub-district integrated extension programs; (3) introduction of participatory and
transparent extension process and procedures; (4) improvement of professional capacity and a reward
program for extension staff; (5) sustained financing of extension activities from budget district allocations;
(6) identification and development mechanisms for executing public-private sector partnership activites;
and (7) introduction and institutionalization of farmer managed extension activities in the village.

Promoting institutional reforms: The project provided opportunities to accelerate the on going
decentralization of public services including agricultural extension which was started in 1992 with the
transfer of the district agricultural service units to the district government. Decentralization of public
services were enhanced under Law no 22 and Law no 25 on Central  Regional Financing Arrangement.
BIPP was established in each district to consolidate various extension programs and staff of the district
agricultural services which were previously under the direction of central and provincial institutions. Upon
the enactment of Law no 22, BIPP was required to plan, implement and evaluate extension activities in the
district.

Enhancing human resource development: The project contributed to the improvement of the capacity of
farmers and farmer groups to lead extension planning, implementation and evaluation of extension
activities. The project supported the government's human resource development program by improving the
capacity of extension managers, extension workers, and village facilitators through various training
activities to respond to farmers' needs through more-demand driven, transparent, effective and accountable
to client and emphatic extension system.

Introduction of institutional and management reforms in the district extension system: The project
strengthened the newly integrated district extension centers (BIPPs) which managed local extension
activities. The mandate and functional structure of the BIPPs was set up by issuing "District Act"
(PERDA). The project supported the integration of agricultural sub sectors (food crops, estate crops,
livestocks, and fisheries) and strngthened their linkage to forestry extension through the implementation of a
joint extension programs. Farmer-oriented participatory operating procedures and tools were introduced to
improve extension management.         The project also promoted partnership with private sector entities,
non-government organizations, universities, research and assessement institutes, and farmer orhanizations,
such as water users' associations, through contracting or cost sharing arrangements. The project promoted
further decentralization of extension to the farming community to manage local farmer need based
extension program.


                                                     - 22 -

Integration of agriculture and forestry in the district extension program: One important feature of the
project was the integration of agriculturcal        extension with forestry extension.       This facilitated
inter-sectoral collaboration in the systematic testing and promotion of agro-forestry approaches and
enhanced awareness of environmental, bio-diversity, conservation, and water management issues. It also
provided an opportunity for the district extension system to become demand-driven and farming
system-oriented. Under the project, the forestry extension staff worked with the agricultural extension staff
in the project areas through FET to ensure that farmers got advice on agro-forestry production. The
project supported a three pronged strategy : (i) to mainstream agro-forestry, environmental, and related
issues into the district extension program; (ii) to test extension approaches and environment friendly
technologies with farmers to identify and showcase good practices in agro-forestry, and (iii) streamline both
agricultural and forestry extension to make them more efficient and less costly.

Promotion of innovative, participatory extension alternatives: The project promoted participatory
extension approaches that directed and made extension more farmer-centered, demand-driven and
accountable to clients. These were participatory methods and tools which had been field-tested by the
government in supporting donor development projects. Many of the participatory and grassroots concepts,
processes and tools proposed under the project was patterned after the field-tested and already adopted
concepts and mechanisms in many areas in the country.

Public  private sector partnerships: The project supported activities to reduce public sector extension in
areas where other providers were more capable, and assist the latter's involvement where relevant. There
were cases where both groups had complementary interests.           The project created opportunities for
partnerships so that the extension system could tap the expertise and experiences of agribusiness
enterprises.

Strengthening research  extension and farming linkages: The linkages of research-extension and
farmers were developed from a linear model in which farmers were considered as the end users to triangular
interactive model in which farmers were partners of extension workers and researchers model of just
research.   Extension and farming interactive linkages were further expanded to a wider scope of
relationships with market, input production, regulation function and civil society. Based on the triangular
model of likages among research, extension and farming, the farmers were considered as partners in
research and extension process. Direct contact among farmers, researchers and extension workers was
encouraged through continuous two-way communication and more reciprocal relationships. This model
promoted more participation of farmers and extension away from the linear vertical and horizontal models
towards a farmer-centered approach of extension and research.

Farmer Managed Activities: A new concept introduced and institutionalized in the implementation of
extension activities at field level was the farmer-managed extension activities (FMA). The changing
position of farmers from passive recipients to active initiator of activities was the most important and
fundamental educational activitiy of the project.      This reversal of roles could only be attained by
introducing role reversal throughout the entire extension system including institutions building,
development of appropriate approaches and methods/techniques and training manuals to be used by the
extension workers. A socialization campaign was carried out to familiarize officials and farmers with a new
extension paradigm.The focus of this new paradigm was from and by the farmers. The farmers appraised,
analyzed, decided, planned, implemented, and evaluated. The family farm business plan is the basis for the
preparation of the village extension plan which was executed under the guidance of or facilitated by
farmer-facilitators who were members of the village management unit for extension activities (UPKG)
managed by democratically elected officers.


                                                    - 23 -

Gender mainstreaming: Gender mainstreaming in the project aimed at (i) enhancing awareness building
among planners and decision makers at all government levels by improving capacity at institutional level,
and (ii) supporting in improving the efficiency of agriculture and forestry extension services under a
decentralized system, by enhancing farmers' capacity to identify gender specific extension needs, and lead
extension activities. Since men and women farmers often had different responsibilities in farming activities,
their extension needs might also differ. Gender issues at grass root level, therefore, assumed important in
the context of the traditional extension approaches that were essentially male oriented. The project
encouraged all men and women to have equal opportunity for learning activities organized under FMA.
Through FMA, women were provided special training as needed by women. The number of women in
village learning activities was considerably increased.

STRATEGIC LESSONS LEARNED:

l The project is an ideal model of extension that accomodates the principles of democracy,
    decentralization, participation, transparency, accountability and sustainability. The project is also a
    tool for farmers to evaluate themselves in relation to their own potential and capacities.
l The project is a vehicle for people-based agricultural development and rural development by the
    application of bottom up principles, participatory development of indegenous technology, sustainable
    agricultural and forestry resource management, partnership development and group and community
    actions to support household business development.
l The project creates the development of farmers' networking at village level and the devlopment of
    business networking through collaboration with various instituions (private, government, NGOs,
    educational institutions, and others).
l The rhetoric of agricultural extension in : (a) farmer must become the subject ratjer than the object of
    development; (b) farmers can teach and learn from other farmers; (c) to help farmers, to help
    themselves, to educate farmers to educate themselves, and (d) from farmers, by farmers, to the farmers
    which is now becoming true.
l Village could be the center for doing and learning activities managed and facilitated by farmers, and
    center for bottom up planning and extension and extension at the bottom. Farmer maanged extension
    activities (FMA) accelerate the learning process of the farmers to lead extension activities and develop
    agribusiness.
l Family agribusiness is a basic economic unit of farm families. It is the main source of income and most
    strategic to be developed in improving productivity. Farmer groups are effective for improving group
    action and learning activities but not for developing business management
l The application of FMA improved the cost effectiveness of the project in terms of the number of
    extension activities implemented and in number of farmers trained compared with the targets originally
    planned
l FMA created more conducive and enjoyable environment which increased farmers' motivation to attend
    training, share experience with other farmers, developing new partnerships and practice new technology
    to produce new products.

Performance of the Bank: Project Planning: At project planning stage, the Bank supported a special
study on the improvement of performance appraisal system for extension workers.The result and
recommendation of the study was incorporated in Proyek Implementasi Plan (PIP) prepared by the
government. In addition, the World Bank facilitated the government project preparation team on project
cost calculation to ease in the planning of project budgeting.    In preparing the PIP, various meeting and
discussions with the WB consultants were organized by the WB to assess and review the PIP. Several
revisions were made by the government as recommended by the WB. In providing recommendations to be


                                                     - 24 -

made, sometimes the WB used a "power" authority as a donor agency. This often led to a "position" of the
government into conflicting interests as an implementor and borrower.

Project Implementation (Supervision Missions): Every six months, the World Bank sent a Project
Supervision Mission to review and evaluate the progress of the project implementation. During this
activity, the WB Mission always provided guidance on the financial and procurement procedures as
required by the WB. Technical guidance was often given by the WB mission. One of the importance
guidance was in the preparation of Financial Management System (FMS) manual required as a condition
for the project effective. . project activities. In addition, the project was rquired to prepare    Project
Management Report (PMR) to the Bank. In preparing PMR, a World Bank staff monitored the project to
ensure that the PMR was prepared tranparent and in a participatory manner as indicated in the procedures.
In carrying out the supervision, the Bank also provided recommendations to resolve problems encountered
during the project implementation at          central and district level if they found distortions. The
recommendations proposed to the government to assure that the Bank procedures were followed by the
project implementors as agreed in the loan agreement and TORs. The project staff often felt that the WB
Mission sometimes too much influenced in the implementation of the project. Nevertheless, the proposed
recommendations were always discussed with the government executing agency to have an agreement on
the follow- up actions of the supervision missions to be taken by the government and the Bank. The
recommendations were very helpful in assisting the project staff to improve the implementation of the
project activities. Few of the recommendations were not able to be followed up due to uncontrollable
bureaucratic issues. During supervision missions, the Bank introduced a participatory monitoring and
evaluation method to the project staff aiming at the project staff were aware to find efforts for the
improvement of the implementation of the project activities in a participatory manner. To improve the
performance of PIU and PMU, the Bank invited PIU and PMU staff to attend workshops organized by the
Bank in Surabaya (2003) and Denpasar (2004) to discuss updated regulation and procedures adopted by
the EB supported projects including KEPPRES and the Bank Guidelines, and exchange experience among
the project managers and staff. The participatory rating system on the progress of the project
implementation was useful to motivate project staff performed their task better. Based on the above review,
the project considered that Bank performance in assisting the government on preparing and implementing
the project was rated satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA.

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                 Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase in income of trained farmers in         5 percent increase in income of trained          Increases in income estimated at between 15
participating villages from agricultural and     farmers in participating villages from           and 80 percent in sample of selected
forestry resources.                              agricultural and forestry resources.             districts.
Changes in productivity of main farming          5 percent increase in productivity of main       Productivity increases estimated at between
systems in participating villages.               farming systems in participating villages.       19 and 50 percent in sample of selected
                                                                                                  districts.
Trained farmers in participating villages        At least 60 percent of trained farmers in        93 percent of surveyed respondents (n=221)
adopted new/improved farming practices.          participating villages have adopted              reported adoption of new technologies.
                                                 new/improved farming practices promoted by
                                                 extension system.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                 Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Component 1: Rate of participation of            At least 50 percent of households participate 50 percent of farm households prepared farm
farming households in farmer group and           in group and network activities; at least 25     business plans; 88 percent of farmer groups
network activities; rate of participation of men,percent of participants are women and youth.     prepared group activity plans; 37 percent of
women and youth in these activities.                                                              participants are women and youth.


Number of farmers, farmer trainers and           About 28,000 farmers, 4,400 farmer trainers 190,757 farmers trained (35 percent women);
technicians trained on priority topics by sex;   and technicians trained; overall at least 25     2020 farmer technicians trained (34 percent
rate of participation of women and youth in      percent of trained farmers are women and         women).
training.                                        youth is maintained.


Number of participatory extension                At least 2 participatory approaches are          47 approaches tested; 18 adopted (38
approaches tested, promoted and adopted in       tested; 1 approach adopted.                      percent). About 20 percent of extension
participating districts; percentage of                                                            activities implemented in partnership with
extension activities implemented in                                                               non-government efforts.
partnership with non-government entities.


Component 2: Number of BIPPs provided            Original: 20 BIPPs are operational, equipped All 16 BIPPs operational.
with facilities, equipment, staff and are        and staffed with competent personnel.
operational.                                     Revised in June 2002 amendment: 16 BIPPs
                                                 are operational.


Number of extension managers, extension          About 5,000 extension workers and 300 local 96 percent (EOP target) of extension workers
workers and local officials trained on priorioty officials are trained (incl. women). Revised in trained (21 percent women); 436 extension
topics by sex.                                   June 2002 amendment: 70 percent of ext.          managers trained (182 percent of EOP
                                                 managers, 4,000 ext. workers and 240 local       target) of which 15 percent are women; 0
                                                 officials trained, HRD plans implemented and     HRD plans implemented.
                                                 HRIS reviewed and updated annually.


Number of BIPPs/KIPPs which adopted              20 BIPPs have adopted participatory              16 districts have adopted participatory
participatory processes and procedures,          processes and procedures in their                procedures and processes.
including financial management,information       operations. Revised June 2002 amendment;
management, planning, monitoring and             Reduced to 16 participatory districts.
evaluation.
Component 3: Number of extension policy          Original: At least 4 policy reviews carried out; 6 policy reviews and special studies carried
reviews carried out; adoption of main policy     at least 3 policy recommendations adopted.       out; policy recommendation for expanding
recommendations.                                 Revised in June 2002 amendment: 4 policy         DAFEP concepts to non-DAFEP districts
                                                 reviews and special studies carried out; 2       implemented in 220 districts through central
                                                 policy recommendations adopted.                  budgetary support.


Actual utilization of central MIS and MES        Central MIS and MES reviewed, updated,           MIS/MES systems unsatisfactory and
data on extension planning and decision          maintained and utilized.                         underutilized.
making.




                                                                     - 26 -

Number of extension managers and central   About 210 central level staff completed       156 managers (74 percent of EOP target)
level staff who satisfactorily completed   non-degree training; at least 12 staff        completed non-degree training; 12 staff
degree and non-degree training.            completed degree training.                    completed degree training (100 percent of
                                                                                         EOP target).


Number of extension managers completed     160 extension managers and central staff are 127 extension managers completed
degree and non-degree training.            trained.                                      non-degree training (79 percent of EOP
                                                                                         target).


Effectiveness of project management and    At least 70 percent of project activities are 70 percent of project activities are
coordination.                              satisfactorily implemented.                   satisfactorily implemented.

1End of project




                                                              - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

               Component                  Appraisal     Actual/     Percentage
                                           Estimate      Latest     of Appraisal
                                                        Estimate     Estimate
1. Enhancement of farmers' capacity to        6.1          7.4          121
   participate in and to lead extension
  activities.
2. Strengthening the district extension       9.2          7.8          85
   system.
3. Provision of central extension policy      3.8          4.6          123
   and project management support.


Total Baseline Cost                          19.0          19.8         104
Physical Contingencies                        0.0
Price Contingencies                           4.6
                     Total Project Costs     23.6          19.8         84
              Total Financing Required       18.0


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

    Expenditure Category                Procurement Method  1/


                                   ICB     NCB     Other 2/   N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                           0.0      1.9      0.0       0.0        1.9
                                   0.0      1.6      0.0       0.0        1.6
2. Goods (including vehicles)      0.0      2.0      0.2       0.9        3.1
                                   0.0      1.6      0.2       0.0        1.8
3. Local training, extension       0.0      0.0     12.8       0.0       12.8
   support and FMA activities
                                   0.0      0.0     10.0       0.0       10.0
4. Consultants' services           0.0      0.0      2.7       0.0        2.7
   studies & Overseas
   training
                                   0.0      0.0      2.7       0.0        2.7
5. Incremental Operating           0.0      0.0      2.5       0.7        3.2
   Costs
                                   0.0      0.0      2.0       0.0        2.0
Total                              0.0      3.8     18.2       1.5       23.6
                                   0.0      3.2     14.9       0.0       18.0




                                                 - 28 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (in US$ million equivalent)

     Expenditure Category                  Procurement Method       1/


                                     ICB        NCB      Other   2/   N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                              -          1.4        0.1        0.0           1.5
                                      -          1.3        0.1         -            1.4
2. Goods (including vehicles)         -          0.8        0.4        0.8           2.1
                                      -          0.7        0.4         -            1.0
3. Local training, extension          -          0.0       12.3         -           12.3
    support and FMA grants
    and facilities
                                      -          0.0       11.0         -           11.0
4. Consultants' services              -           -         1.6         -            1.6
    studies & Overseas
    training
                                      -           -         1.6         -            1.6
5. Incremental Operating              -           -         2.2         -            2.2
    Costs
                                      -           -         1.6         -            1.6
Total                                0.0         2.2       16.7        0.8          19.8
                                     0.0         1.9       14.6        0.0          16.5
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


                                Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest            Percentage of Appraisal
         Component                                        Estimate

                                Bank Govt. CoF. Bank Govt. CoF.               Bank         Govt.      CoF.

1. Enchancement of farmers'
    capacity to participate in
    and to lead extension
    activities.                  6.2   1.7            7.1     0.3              114          17

2. Strengthening the district
    extension system.            8.2   3.0            5.9     1.9              72           66

3. Provision of central
    extension policy and
    project management
    support.                     3.6   0.9            3.5     1.1              97           121

             Total              18.0   5.6    0.0    16.5     3.3    0.0       91           60




                                                       - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Project Benefits and Expected Returns in PAD

The project aimed to promote viable farming practices and improve farmers' incomes by: (a) enhancing
farmers' capacity and participation in extension activities; (b) strengthening the capacity of integrated
district-level agricultural and forestry extension systems; and (c) improving the policy and operational
guidelines for scaling up the decentralized agricultural and forestry extension system experiences.

The PAD adopted a cost effectiveness analysis to evaluate the financial and economic viability of the
project based on ten participating pilot districts. The district analysis assumed: (a) the realization of growth
in agricultural yields within the first four years of the project; (b) no expansion in the area of agricultural
land use; and (c) an increase in crop output generates incremental production/marketing costs. The benefits
are mainly assumed to come from increased agricultural yields (presumably crop yields).

The analysis was made over a 20-year period and additional assumptions were: (a) an annual depreciation
of the official exchange rate at 5 percent; (b) recurrent costs of BIPPs/BPPs are fully funded, in constant
real terms; (c) annual inflation would remain at 10 percent; and (d) the project would benefit both the pilot
areas as well as the non-pilot areas of the participating pilot districts.

The district-wide annual agricultural yield growth needed for five years to break even at an economic and
financial rate of return of 20 percent for the entire project investment was estimated at 0.24 percent and
0.29 percent respectively. These break-even growth rates can be compared to the district level required
annual growth rates varying from 0.15 percent to 0.80 percent across pilot districts. The analysis adopted
by the PAD is simplistic in approach and unrealistic in terms of the assumptions made. Detailed worksheets
of the economic and financial analysis used for the appraisal were not available for the ICR mission, so
that it is not known what crops or other activities (such as livestock) may have been considered in the
analysis.

The M&E in the project was ineffective and did not generate good data, which has seriously handicapped
the capacity for doing quantitative analysis for the purposes of the ICR. However, even with better M&E
data, it would have been difficult getting a true measure of the economic rate of return of this project
because of its dispersed implementation, the different technologies and management practices that were
tested, the different types of economic benefits likely to be generated from the FMAs (which were not
known a prioriowing to the pilot nature of the project), and the training, the improved institutional linkages
between extension and research, etc., benefits which are difficult to quantify.

The economic benefits of the project are therefore presented in terms of the villages and families on which
the project has direct impact and the results of models prepared based on field visits and intensive focus
group discussions with a wide variety of farmer groups for the purposes of preparing the ICR. It appears
that the impact of the project in terms of the number of villages and farmer groups that have benefited
directly is considerably less than was envisaged in the PAD. During project appraisal it was estimated that
9,323 farmer groups in 1,136 villages would directly benefit. However, in April 2001, when the number of
participating districts was reduced from 20 to 16, these numbers were revised downward (but not reflected
in the PAD) to 7,458 and 909, respectively. At the end of the project, the number of farmer groups and
villages that have directly benefitted are 4,370 and 680, respectively; this represents 59 percent and 75
percent of the revised targets. The villages that actually directly benefited from the project in the 16
participating districts represent only 6.4 percent of the total villages in 58 percent of the sub-districts.
Hence, the strengthening of district extension systems covered only a relatively small proportion of the total



                                                     - 30 -

villages in these districts. Therefore, assuming a district-wide yield benefit impact (as was done in the PAD
cost-effectiveness analysis) cannot be justified. However, during the project implementation period an
additional 80,000 farmer groups in about 220 districts have benefited from MOA-supported FMAs
although at a reduced scale of funding. While some impacts are already visible in terms of increased
income to participating farm households, other benefits will be realized as this innovative model spreads to
other farmers within participating villages and to more villages within the participating sub-districts. The
economic benefits observed by the ICR mission are substantial for some FMA interventions, although the
number of beneficiary farmers (as a percentage of total farmers in the village) vary widely by
technology/management practice.

ICR Estimation Methodology

While the methodology of economic analysis used in the PAD is questionable for its unrealistic
assumptions, the impact assessment study is yet to be completed due to the abrupt termination of the
project. Project performance indicators were not systematically tracked during the project implementation
period. Even the physical progress has not been systematically aggregated and documented at project level
despite having such information at village and district level as observed by the mission during its field
visits. For instance, the number of men and women trained, the cost of training and the sequence of training
are documented at FMA level and district level but never aggregated at project level for each of the FMA
activities. Unfortunately, the report format adopted for documentation at the district level has not followed
uniform coding across districts and hence is not amenable for any analysis. Clearly the MES/MIS systems
operated by the project have failed to guide project implementation and management decisions. The much
delayed impact assessment study is still under way at the time of writing. A detailed note on the proposed
impact assessment study and the weak M&E system operated by the project is provided in the Financial
and Economic Analysis Working Paper (FAO/CP, September 2005).

In the absence of impact data on the project, the ICR mission had to rely on field visits, farmer and farmer
group interactions, and meetings with implementing agencies at district/sub-district/village levels for
assessing the impact of the project interventions at field level. The mission covered more than 25 villages in
six participating districts from four provinces to interact with the project beneficiaries. In addition, an ex
postevaluation of selected FMA activities covering 221 respondents in 25 villages (3 districts) was also
carried out in July 2005 that provided data for the analysis of financial benefits. Focus group discussions
with FMA beneficiaries helped in generating the data on the impact of 16 FMA-based interventions which
were used to estimate the potential rates of return to such investments. Unfortunately, for want of
systematic project-level data on FMA categories and their spread, these illustrative case studies could not
be scaled up for assessing the project-level impacts.

The case studies represent FMA interventions covering diverse activities which include paddy, fish, ducks,
chicken, vegetables, coconut, cattle and bamboo production, value-addition and marketing-related
enterprises. For estimating the benefit to cost ratio, annualized investment costs are based on a 10 percent
interest rate and a repayment period of 3-5 years wherever appropriate.

Farmer Managed Activity Interventions

The project provided the opportunity for "bottom-up" participatory planning and implementation of FMA
activities which has provided `learning by doing' opportunities to groups of farmers in the participating
villages. The ICR mission, during field visits to Bantul, Kulon Progo, Magelang, Gowa and Kupang
districts, documented several successful interventions which have provided significant financial returns to




                                                     - 31 -

farmers (Table 1). However, there is a large variation in financial returns, investment costs, adoption rates
and equity considerations (numbers of poorer benefiting households and gender).

There were some high income/high cost activities (e.g., orchids, gurami fish and coconut jelly) to which
large proportions of the FMA budgets were allocated and which benefited very few farm families in the
participating villages. High investment/operating cost and/or long gestation periods of these activities have
restricted their adoption to only a few better-off households which actually received the training. By
contrast, the mission encountered other low-cost key interventions with as little as 3-7 percent of the village
FMA budget being allocated to them for improving the skills of farmers which have benefited many
families, particularly the poorer ones. Examples include duck raising, catfish, bitter gourd, citrus, cattle
fattening and local chicken improvement which proved to be popular and financially viable as seen by their
spread from 16 to over 50 percent of the farmers in the villages concerned.

Several important non-quantifiable benefits have been generated through the project. These include: (a)
group actions which have improved farm production and management; (b) frequent farmer and extension
worker interactions; (c) the institutionalization of farmer-led and farm-centered participatory extension
systems; (d) increased interfacing of farmers groups with the private sector; (e) improved access to
markets; (f) efficient access to multiple sources of extension information; and (g) enhanced capacity for
farmers to do farming as a business. While some of the impacts are already visible in terms of increased
income to directly participating farm households, more potential benefits will be realized as this innovative
model spreads to more farmers within the participating villages and to more villages within the
participating sub-districts in the immediate future, and further to other sub-districts and villages within the
participating districts.

Case study examples of FMA interventions

Financial analysis was carried out by the ICR mission of a number of interventions adopted by farm
households that participated in FMA activities (Table 1). The analysis is based on data obtained in focus
discussions with farmers during village visits by the mission.

In some villages, FMA interventions were targeted to maximize the beneficial impact per unit of budget
spent. One good example was observed during the visit to an interior location, Pallantikang Village
(UPKG) in the sub-district of Pattallassang in Gowa district. This village is far away from the district
headquarters with poor roads. The farmers here identified a training activity for building up a partnership
with the help of an outside expert and utilized an FMA grant of Rp 2.3 million (3 percent of the FMA
budget). A total of 30 men and 20 women/youths attended this training which led to the development of
several partnerships during the last two years. Each of the seven farmer groups entered into a
Memorandum of Understanding with entrepreneurs located in Makassar for marketing corn, tapioca and
paddy directly instead of going through middlemen. Prices realized, net of transport charges, for paddy and
cassava are 33 to 80 percent more than before, while the price advantage for maize has been between 10-40
percent.   Around 800 farmers from this and neighboring non-project villages are estimated to have
benefited from these partnerships, each getting Rp 0.5 to 0.8 million in incremental net benefits per year.
More importantly, these groups are now looking to develop new partnerships for getting access to
credit-linked input supply for improving their farm business opportunities.

Technology transfer for better rearing of local chickens in Sendangsari UPKG in Bantul is a good example.
Just by training farmers to carry out a very simple and easy management practice of separating a hen from
its chicks, each farm family which adopted this technique is earning an additional income of Rp 1.35m per
year and the technology has spread to more than 50 percent of the farmers in the village. On the other hand,


                                                    - 32 -

another FMA activity in the same village for the processing of spices, despite being highly profitable by
getting additional income of Rp 0.027 million for every kg of spices processed, the spread of this
technology was limited to the group of 26 women who received training during two consecutive years. Such
monopolization of skills acquired by the FMA training was also observed in the case of orchids with
respect to another group in Magelang district where the benefits from almost 30 percent of the total FMA
grant allocated to a village with 727 farm households was captured by a group of 25 better-off women who
received training over three consecutive years contributing themselves 29 percent of their training and setup
costs. There has been no spread to any other households in the village.

Aside from equity concerns, financial returns from typical interventions that families have been able to
implement following training received through the project have been very attractive and have substantially
raised family incomes. The mission analyzed a variety of 16 interventions and documented the details in a
Working Paper. FMA activities have been classified into: (a) those requiring capital investment; and (b)
those requiring only additional operating expenses. For type (a) activities, net benefit to incremental costs
(investment plus operating costs) range from 1.4 to 33.1 indicating that for every additional Rp1 spent
Rp2.4 to Rp34.1 are returned. For type (b) activities, net benefit to incremental operating costs range from
1.3 to 15.7 so that for every additional Rp1 spent Rp2.3 to Rp16.7 are generated. Expressed as a
percentage return to additional cost, these range for type (a) from 40 percent to 3,210 percent and for type
(b) from 30 percent to 1,470 percent.

The economic benefits observed by the ICR mission are substantial for some of the major FMA
interventions. The economic benefits generated for these activities on a household basis are many times
higher than the PAD estimated annual growth rates of 0.24 to 0.29 percent in agricultural yields. In the ex
postevaluation of selected FMA activities covering 221 respondents in 25 villages, 57 percent of those
surveyed reported increases in incomes from increased crop and livestock productivity and reduced
mortality rate for livestock. Typical percentages of income increases were bananas (33 percent), kangkong
(35 percent), chillis (50 percent), livestock (55 percent), and corn (60 percent).

With the decentralized extension approach, extension units at every level will have to justify their claim for
budgetary support. A good way to realize this is to design FMA interventions with more low-cost key
interventions for spreading the income-generating impacts to the maximum number of farm families in the
villages. The project has shown that, even with a modest budget, cost-effective extension related to farmers'
capacity-building activities could lead to significant improvement in individual as well as societal welfare.
These varied experiences observed in the project villages highlight the need for strengthening farmer groups
and FETs: (a) to identify low-cost and profitable interventions; and (b) to ensure the equitable distribution
of benefits from FMA interventions for reaching more farmers, including the poorer households, within and
across villages.The economic impact of the project could have been much greater. Project management and
supervision could have been much more proactive in ensuring the exchange and promotion of experiences
within the participating sub-districts and districts. Had this been done, many more extension workers and
farmers could have learned from the project and also benefited from the project.




                                                      - 33 -

         Table 1: Financial Analysis of sample FMA interventions in DAFEP villages

                                                         Farmers      Training      Net        Net
Name of the        Benefits provided under FMA         benefited as   budget for  benefit to benefit to
   activity                                             percentage    activity as operating  annualize
                                                         of village percentage of cost ratio d invest-
                                                         farmers    FMA budget                 ment
                                                                                              ratio1/


Cat fish       Technology transfer; Farmer             17           3.5             0.73        2.5
raising        trainings for nursery raising and cat
               fish raising
Gurmi fish     Technology transfer;                    12           24              2.1         8.6
raising        Apprenticeship; Potential
               assessment; Business meeting, and
               tour
Duck raising   Technology transfer; Study tour;        16           7               2.9         4.2
               Networking for duck raising &
               golden snail pest as feed
Orchid         Technology transfer;                    3.4          28.5            1.0         7.7
cultivation    Apprenticeship; Tour; Comparative
               study; Field school meeting
Cultivation of Field school and technology transfer    27           4.7             3.0         7.5
Bittergourd
Coconut        Technology transfer; Apprenticeship    0.4           6.4             1.3        12.5
Jelly          and Study tour
processing
Citrus         Technology transfer; and training       31           3.1             6.8        33.1
cultivation    organized in collaboration with pest
               management school
Paddy          Apprenticeship program for              9.2          4.1             15.0        1.4
Thrashers      technology transfer to make
               indigenous wooden thrasher
Partnership    External expertise provided training   100           3.1             NA         NA
building       on partnership activities
Cattle         Training for technology                 27           4.7             2.2        NA
fattening      transfer-faster growth and weight
               gain-enabling two cycles in 2 years
Improved       Rainfed paddy field school              8            3.1             2.2        NA
paddy
technology
Bamboo         Demonstration and supervision by       15            NA              15.7       NA
handcraft for  invited artisan.
youth
Improved       Technology transfer and training       100           NA              2.8         1.9
cattle by
breeding/



                                                   - 34 -

ration
formulation
Local           Technology transfer for better           More than         4                     9.0         9.0
Chicken         rearing - increased stocking and         50
                production
Processing of Technology transfer for spices             Less than 1       14.5                  2.1         NA
Spices for      processing in 2002 and field meeting
value addition for spice crops cultivation in 2003
Rambutan        Technology transfer and training         75                13                    NA          NA
selection,
budding and
production

1/ Annualized investment cost is estimated based on 10 percent interest rate and 3 to 5 years of repayment period
   wherever appropriate. NA: Not available/applicable.




                                                     - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/27/1996                3    TTL (1); OPER.SPEC.(1);
                                             EXTN.SPEC.(1)
              10/02/1996                2    TTL (1); OPER. SPEC. (1)
              10/15/1997                9    TTL (1); ECON. SPEC. (1);
                                             AGRIC.SPEC.(1);
                                             FIN.SPEC.(1);SOCIOLOGIST
                                             SPEC.(1); EXT.SPECS.(2);
                                             AGRO.FRSTRY SPEC.(2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/15/1999                7    TTL (1); LEAD RURAL
                                             DEV. SPEC. (1); LEGAL
                                             SPEC.(1); DISB. SPEC.(1);
                                             AGRIC. SPEC.(1); OP.
                                             SPEC.(1);
                                             AGRIC.TRG.EXTN.SPEC.(
                                             1)
              07/09/1999                7    TTL (1); LEGAL SPEC.(1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); FIN.
                                             SPECS.(3); PROC.SPEC. (2)

 Supervision
              08/11/2000                7    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OP.OFFICER/ALTERNATE
                                             (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGT.
                                             OFFICER (1);
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             AGROFORESTRY SPEC.
                                             (1)
              09/08/2000                7    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OP.OFFICER/ALTERNATE (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MGT.
                                             OFFICER (1);
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             AGROFORESTRY SPEC. (1)
              02/22/2001                7    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             FORESTRY EXT. SPEC. (1);
                                             GENDER SPECIALIST (1);




                                              - 36 -

                                           LEAD RURAL DEVT SPEC. (1)
               08/24/2001              8   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                                           PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                           FIN. MGT. SPECIALIST (1);
                                           EXTENSION SPECIALIST (1);
                                           GENDER/HRM SPECIALIST
                                           (1); GENDER/EXTENSION
                                           SPEC. (1)
               02/08/2002              8   SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);             S    S
                                           LEAD RD SPECIALIST (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                           OPERATION OFFICER (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); FIN. MGMT. SPECIALIST
                                           (1); GENDER CONSULTANT
                                           (2)
               07/08/2002              7   TTL-SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);         S    S
                                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                           FIN. MGM.SPECIALIST (1);
                                           AGRIC. CONSULTANT (1);
                                           COMM.&TRG. CONSULTANT
                                           (1); AGRO-FORESTRY (1)
               02/21/2003              7   ECONOMICS/TTL (1);                 S    S
                                           EXTENSION, RESEARCH (1);
                                           GENDER (1); AGRICULTURE
                                           (1); FORESTRY (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT (1)
               06/23/2003              6   EXTENSION (1); RESEARCH            S    S
                                           (1); OPERATIONS (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1); ECONOMICS/TTL (1)

 ICR
                                      3     MISSION LEADER (1);               S    S
                                            PARTICIPATORY
                                            EXTENSION (1);
                                            ECONOMICS (1)


(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision
  ICR                                   11.6                        63,800
  Total




                                            - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Implementation Completion Review Mission Aide-Memoire, July 2005, FAO/World Bank.
2.   Financial and Economic Analysis Working Paper, September 2005, FAO/IC.
3.   Project Appraisal Document, Indonesia Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project,
     World Bank Report no. 19421-IND, August 5, 1999.
4.   Project Agreement, Development Credit Agreement and Loan Agreement, World Bank.
5.   DCA Amendments, World Bank files.
6.   Supervision Mission Reports/PSRs, DAFEP, World Bank files.
7.   Mid Term Review Report DAFEP (February 2003), World Bank.
8.   Technical assistance for Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project (DAFEP).
     Final Report June 2001  November 2004. PT Amurwa International.
9.   Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project. Final project evaluation report
     (January 1, 2000  December 31, 2004) National Center for Agricultural Extension Development,
     Ministry of Agriculture and National Center for Forestry Extension, Ministry of Forestry.
10.  Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project. First annual progress report
     (January 1 to December 31, 2000). Ministry of Agriculture. Agency for Agricultural Human
     Resources Development.
11.  Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project. Second annual progress report
     (January 1 to December 31, 2002). Ministry of Agriculture.
     Agency for Agricultural Human Resources Development.
12.  Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project. Fourth annual progress report
     (January 1 to December 31, 2003). Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Forestry.
13.  Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project. Laporan Tahunan Tahun 2004
     (January 2005). Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Forestry.
14.  Final Project Evaluation Report prepared by DAFEP Finalization Team, Office of Director
     General of Agency for Agricultural Human Resources Development, June 2005.
15.  Indonesia DAFEP: CIRAD Technical Assistance to the Benchmark Study, Final Report, 2002.
16.  Magelang, Minahasa, Lombok Barat: Review of Farmer-Managed Activities (including data files),
     May 2005.




                                              - 40 -

                                                                                                                                                                                            C H I N A                               N O R T H PA C I F I C
                                                                               I N D O N E S I A                                                                                                                                            O C E A N
                                                                                                                                                                        MYANMAR
                                                                                                                                                                                    LAO                    MACAO, PORT.
                                 DECENTRALIZED AGRICULTURAL AND                                                                                                                     P.D.R.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   P h i l i p p i n e

                                            FORESTRY EXTENSION PROJECT                                                                                                          THAILAND       VIETNAM                                    S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                       CAMBODIA
                                                                                                                                                                        Andaman                                     PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                                          Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                  Gulf of
                                                                                                                                                                                  Thailand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PALAU
                                                                                                                                                                                                     BRUNEI
                                                                                                                      PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                M A L A Y S I A

              This map was produced by the                                   PILOT PROVINCES                          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                   SINGAPORE

              Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
              The boundaries, colors, denominations                          PARTNER PROVINCES
              and any other information shown on                                                                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                              Jakarta Java Sea                                                          P.N.G.
              this map do not imply, on the part of                                                                                                                       INDIAN                     I  N    D     O      N    E   S     I    A
              The World Bank Group, any judgment                                                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
              on the legal status of any territory, or                                                                                                                    OCEAN                                                          Arafura Sea
              any endorsement or acceptance of
              such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                           Timor Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AUSTRALIA


            95                       100
                                           THAILAND                 105                 110                 115                         120                                        130                         135                        140

                                                                                                                                                        PHILIPPINES                       PACIFIC                        PROVINCES
                Banda Aceh                                                  South China Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                          OCEAN            1. D.K.I. Jakarta      14. Kalimantan Barat                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                           2. Jawa Barat          15. Kalimantan Tengah
            5                                                                                     BRUNEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                           3. Jawa Tengah         16. Kalimantan Selatan
                      13                            MALAYSIA                                                                                                                                               4. D.I. Yogyakarta     17. Kalimantan Timur
                                    Medan                                                                                                         Celebes                                                  5. Jawa Timur          18. Sulawesi Tengah
                                           Strait                             NATUNA                                                                Sea                                                    6. Lampung             19. Sulawesi Utara
                                                                                                                                                                                                           7. Bengkulu            20. Sulawesi Selatan
                                     12                                        BESAR
                                                    of                                            MALAYSIA                                                                                                 8. Sumatera Selatan    21. Sulawesi Tenggara
            SIMEULUE                   S               Malacca                                                                                                                    MOROTAI                  9. Riau                22. Bali
                                          U                                                                          17                                  Manado                                          10. Jambi                23. Nusa Tenggara Barat
                                                                                                                                                                                                         11. Sumatera Barat       24. Nusa Tenggara Timur
                     NIAS                   M                     SINGAPORE
                                                                                                                                                         19                    HALMAHERA                 12. Sumatera Utara       25. Maluku                           0
                                                                                                                                                                                                         13. D.I. Aceh            26. Irian Jaya
            0                                 A T    Pekanbaru
                                                      9
                                                    E                          Pontianak                                                                                                     WAIGEO
                                                                                                                    Samarinda                                                                                                     27. Timor Timur
                                   Padang      11    R                                       14
                                                      A                                           KALIMANTAN                        Strait
                                                                                                                                      Palu                                                                                BIAK

                                                            Jambi                                       15
                           SIBERUT                      10                                           Palangkaraya                                             TALIABU 25       OBI
                                                                                                                                                18                                                                    YAPEN
                                                                         BANGKA                                                                                                            MISOOL
                                                             Palembang                                                                  SULAWESI
                                                                                                                            Makassar                                           SERAM                                                         Jayapura
                                                       7                                                         16                       20
                                                                8            BELITUNG
                                                                                                                                                                      BURU                                                                               PAPUA
                                               Bengkulu                                                        Banjarmasin                         21  Kendari                  Ambon                                       IRIAN JAYA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               26
                                                                    6  Bandar            Java    Sea
            5                                                        Lampung                                         Ujungpandang                                    Banda                                                                                   NEW
                                                                           1 JAKARTA                                                                                    Sea
                                                                                 Bandung  Semarang                                                                                                                                                               GUINEA
                                                                                 2                   Surabaya
                                                                                          3                                            Flores                                                                    KEPULAUAN
                    INDIAN OCEAN                                                                                                          Sea                        WETAR                                            ARU
                                                                                   Yogyakarta4      5          BALI      SUMBAWA                                                                  YAMDENA
                                                                                                               22    Mataram                     FLORES
                                                                                     J A W A            Denpasar
                                                                                                                LOMBOK   23                        24                                                         Arafura Sea
AUGUST      10                                                                                                                                      Kupang       27                                                                                     10
                                                                                                                                    SUMBA                           TIMOR                                                                                                      IBRD
                      0         200        400        600     800 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                             AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30419
      1999

                                       100                       105                   110                 115                          120                125                    130                        135                             140

