Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3280 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 17, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3280 IND 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
 the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the 
financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such 
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to thirteen million dollars 
($13,000,000) (the Loan); and 
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows;  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
“Participating Country” means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and “Participating Countries” means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms, wherever used in this 
Agreement, have the following meanings:  
(a)
“BAPPENAS” means the National Development Planning Agency of the Borrower 
and includes any successor thereto; 
(b)
“BAPPEDA Kabupaten” means the District Development Planning Agency, and 
includes any successor thereto; 
(c)
“BIPP” means Balai Informasi dan Penyuluhan Pertanian, the District 
Center for Agricultural Information and Extension, established and operating within 
each Participating District; 
(d)
“BPP” means Balai Penyuluhan Pertanian, the Sub-District Rural Extension 
Center, established and operating within each Participating Sub-District; 
(e)
“BPTP” means Balai Pengkajian Teknologi Pertanian, the Regional 
Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology; 
(f)
“Desa” means a village within a Sub-District;
(g)
“Dinas PKT” means Dinas Perhutanan dan Konservasi Tanah, the District 
Office for Forestry ad Soil Conservation; 
(h)
“District” means a district within a province; 
(i)
“farmer” means any farmer, including a crop producer, a farm worker, a 
livestock producer, a fisher, an agro-processor, and an agro-forester; 
(j)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing April 1 and 
ending March 31; 
(k)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Page  3
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement; 
(l)
“NCAE” means the National Center for Agricultural Extension within the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture; 
(m)
“NCFECE” means the National Center for Forestry and Estate Crops 
Extension within the Borrower’s Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops;
(n)
“Participating Districts” means the Participating Pilot Districts and the 
Participating Partner Districts; and “Participating District” means any of the 
Participating Pilot District or Participating Partner District;
(o)
“Participating Pilot Districts” means the following Districts for 
purposes of Parts A and B of the Project: Bantul and Kulon Progo in the province of D. 
I. Yogyakarta; Kupang and Timor Tengah Selatan in the province of East Nusa Tenggara; 
Labuhan Batu and Simalungun in the province of North Sumatra; Kendari and Kolaka in 
the province of South East Sulawesi; and Gowa and Maros in the province of South 
Sulawesi;
(p)
“Participating Partner Districts” means the following Districts for 
purposes of Parts A.1 (a), (c) and (d), A.2 (a), A.3 (e), B.1 (b) and B.2 (e) and (g) 
of the Project: Banyumas and Magelang in the province of Central Java; Aceh Barat and 
Pidie in the province of D. I. Aceh; Bolaang Mongondow and Minahasa in the province of 
North Sulawesi; Kota Baru and Tanah Laut in the province of South Kalimantan; and Bima 
and Lombok Barat in the province of West Nusa Tenggara; 
(q)
“Participating Sub-District” means a Sub-District within a Participating 
District selected by the Borrower from time to time, in consultation with the 
Association, for participation in the Project; 
(r)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established within the BIPP 
in each Participating District; 
(s)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established within the NCAE and 
Sub-PMU means the Sub-project Management Unit established within the NCFECE; 
(t)
“Project Provinces” means the Borrower’s provinces of Central Java, D. I. 
Aceh, D. I. Yogyakarta, East Nusa Tenggara, North Sulawesi, North Sumatra, South East 
Sulawesi, South Kalimantan, South Sulawesi and West Nusa Tenggara;
(u)
"Rupiah" and "Rp" mean the currency of the Borrower;  
(v)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(w)
“Sub-District” means a sub-district within a District. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Page  4
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank 
acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including, in the case of a state commercial bank, appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing  November 1, 2009 and ending  May 1, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on  May 1, 2019, shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
Page  5
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, agricultural, educational, engineering, environmental, financial and 
forestry practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
Page  6
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of  
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal 
Year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
October 1, 2000, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later that 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
Page  7
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, 
except only the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, have been 
fulfilled; 
(b)
a Central Extension Guidance Committee has been established, chaired by 
BAPPENAS, and including representatives of the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, 
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Forestry and Estate Crops, and Ministry of Home 
Affairs (including the Directorate General of Regional Development and the Directorate 
General for Public Administration and Regional Autonomy);  
(c)
a District Extension Committee has been established in each Participating 
Pilot District, chaired by BAPPEDA Kabupaten, and including representatives from the 
District agriculture and forestry service units, the representative of the District 
Head, local university, assessment institute, training academy, private sector, 
non-government organizations, and farmer groups; 
(d)
a PMU has been established with competent staff in adequate numbers, 
responsible for Project coordination and management at the central level;
(e)
a Sub-PMU has been established with competent staff in adequate numbers, 
responsible for Project coordination and management of agro-forestry activities at the 
central level; 
(f)
PIUs have been established in each Participating Pilot District with 
competent staff in adequate numbers, responsible for Project coordination and 
management at the District level;  
(g)
a Project financial management system manual, acceptable to the 
Association, has been issued.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  8
     INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
     Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Mr. Darsjah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mark Baird
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and 
the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the
     Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
      SDR Equivalent)
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   300,000
   1,000,000
91%
(2)
Goods (excluding
   400,000
   1,300,000
100% of foreign
vehicles)
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Local training,
 2,000,000
   6,900,000
80%
extension support,
and farmer-
managed activities
(4)
Incremental 
   500,000
   1,400,000
80%
operating costs
(5)
Consultants'
   600,000
   1,900,000
100%
services, studies
and overseas
training
(6)
Fee
      --
     130,000
Amount due under
Page  9
Section 2.04 of
the Loan Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
      --
     370,000
TOTAL
 3,800,000
  13,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c)
the term “extension support” means expenditures for per diem, travel, 
honoraria (excluding salaries), materials and supplies for farmers, extension workers, 
trainers, motivators and university staff; 
(d)
the term “farmer-managed activities” means expenditures for per diem, 
agricultural inputs, materials and supplies, and labor wages for farmers; and  
(e)
the term “Incremental operating costs” means expenditures for travel, per 
diem, communications, honoraria (excluding salaries), materials and supplies for the 
PMU, the Sub-PMU and the PIUs required for Project implementation. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$1,800,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after May 1, 1999.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account, and the Bank 
may require withdrawals from the Loan Account, to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) contracts for civil works and goods costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) local and overseas training, extension 
support, and farmer-managed activities; (iii) incremental operating costs; and (iv) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms and for studies valued at less than 
$100,000 equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals valued at 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association or the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in enhancing farmers’ 
capacity to participate in extension activities and strengthening the capacity of the 
District-level integrated agricultural and forestry extension system, which would 
promote economically feasible, environmentally sustainable and socially acceptable 
farming practices and increased farmers’ income.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Enhancement of Farmers’ Capacity to Participate in and to Lead Extension 
Activities 
1.
Revitalization of Farmer Groups and Organization of Farmers’ Networks
Strengthening the capacity of farmers to revitalize farmer groups and organize 
farmers' networks through:
(a)
the carrying out of participatory village appraisals, including social 
Page  10
and gender analyses focusing on the special needs of women farmers and youth;
(b)
the preparation of farmer groups’ farm business plans, annual village 
action plans and annual District and Sub-District extension programs, with the 
participation of farmers and other stakeholders;
(c)
the promotion of farmer managed activities, including farmer field 
investigations, farmer technical meetings, field days, and farmer media materials 
production and dissemination; and
(d)
the establishment of farmers’ networks to promote farmer-to-farmer 
sharing of information, as a means to access production inputs and technology, 
credits, and markets.
2.
Building of Capacity of Farmers to Participate in and to Lead Extension 
Activities
(a)
Improving the capacity of farmers and farmer groups to increase 
production, improve adoption of technologies, and improve marketing capacity, through 
the carrying out of a farmers’ training program, including apprenticeships and 
exchange visits.
(b)
Improving the capacity of farmer trainers and farmer technicians to 
support and to lead farmer-to-farmer extension programs through the carrying out of 
training-of-trainers courses, technical training and apprenticeships for selected 
farmers. 
3.
Promotion of Participatory Extension Methods and Provision of Media and 
Technology Support
(a)
Establishment of inter-disciplinary field extension teams in 
Participating Sub-Districts to provide technical advice to farmer groups and networks.
(b)
Development and implementation of participatory and farmer need-based 
extension approaches through the provision of training, materials, and promotion of 
extension approaches involving partnerships with private sector entities, 
non-governmental organizations, universities, and farmers’ organizations.
(c)
Intensification of farmer-led on-farm technology testing and 
demonstrations;
(d)
Carrying out of focused extension activities in selected areas, including 
social forestry, soil conservation, agro-forestry, and targeted activities involving 
women farmers and rural youth. 
(e)
Conducting participatory mass media awareness campaigns to intensify 
information and technology promotion, including the preparation of printed and 
audio-visual materials, and the carrying out of surveys to assess the effectiveness of 
these materials, and farmers’ attitudes and knowledge of the extension program. 
(f)
Establishment and maintenance by farmers’ groups of a media forum, 
including the piloting of a community audio tower system in selected villages.
Part B:
Strengthening the District Extension System 
1.
Introduction of Institutional and Management Reforms at the District Level
(a)
Strengthening extension planning, personnel management, financial 
management and monitoring and evaluation capabilities of BIPPs through the provision 
of technical assistance to streamline BIPPs’ operation and training for extension 
managers, extension workers and support staff. 
(b)
Upgrading the facilities of BIPPs and BPPs, including construction of new 
facilities and upgrading of existing facilities, and provision of furniture, office 
equipment, computers, communication equipment, materials, and vehicles.
(c)
Strengthening the linkages of BIPPs with other District and provincial 
Page  11
organizations, farmers’ organizations, research and technology assessment institutes, 
training centers and technical support units, through the provision of technical 
assistance and training and building partnerships with the private sector, 
non-government organizations, and universities through contracting or cost-sharing 
arrangements of joint activities. 
2.
Building the Capacity of Extension Staff in the Participating Districts
Strengthening the human resources capabilities of BIPPs and the extension 
section of Dinas PKT through: 
(a)
the carrying out of a human resources assessment study, including a 
review of job descriptions and an inventory of skills and personnel, and the 
incentives of extension staff; 
(b)
the preparation and implementation of human resources development plans 
at the District and Sub-District levels; 
(c)
the implementation of a reward program for extension staff for 
outstanding performance;  
(d)
the carrying out of farmers’ satisfaction surveys to evaluate the 
performance of extension workers, including self-assessment instruments for extension 
workers;
(e)
the training of extension workers, in communication skills, technical 
fields, participatory extension approaches, participatory extension planning 
(including participatory rural appraisal and social and gender analysis), 
team-building and organizational techniques; 
(f)
the training of extension managers in extension management, leadership 
and communication skills, planning techniques, and monitoring and evaluation 
techniques; and 
(g)
the training of support staff in general administration, library 
management, media production, financial management, and computer skills. 
3.
Strengthening the Extension Support and
Delivery Systems in Participating Districts
Improving farmers’ access to information about agricultural and forestry 
technology, inputs, credit, markets, and farmers’ network activities through: 
(a)
the establishment and maintenance of a farmers’ information and 
technology promotion unit at the BIPP, including provision of related equipment and 
training of staff; 
(b)
the development and implementation of an information management system 
and a monitoring and evaluation system to support extension activities and Project 
implementation, including provision of related equipment and training of staff;  
(c)
the establishment of expert teams at the BIPPs to support the field 
extension teams at the Sub-District level, and the establishment of soil analyses 
support for farmers in collaboration with BPTPs; 
(d)
the strengthening of Project implementation capabilities of the BIPPs in 
the Participating Districts, through (i) the provision of operational support 
including materials, office equipment and furniture; (ii) the training of staff on 
Project and financial management and procurement procedures; and (iii) carrying out of 
planning and monitoring and evaluation workshops, and field supervision.
Part C:
Provision of Central Extension Policy and Project Management Support 
1.
Improvement of Extension Policy and Conduct of Special Studies
(a)
Carrying out of policy analysis and enhancing public awareness of new 
Page  12
extension policies at the national, provincial and District levels through the 
provision of training and carrying out of dissemination activities on the new 
extension approaches, effects of organizational reforms, and policy changes.
(b)
Carrying out of selected priority studies, including benchmark surveys, 
periodic evaluations of the field impact of extension methods, and social and gender 
studies. 
2.
Strengthening the Central Extension Support Systems
(a)
Strengthening the monitoring and evaluation capacity of NCAE and NCFECE 
through the provision of technical assistance and training for staff.
(b)
Strengthening the management information capacity of NCAE and NCFECE 
through the provision of training for staff and acquisition of computers and related 
equipment. 
(c)
Enhancing the technical capabilities of extension staff through the 
provision of overseas and in-country degree training and non-degree training for NCAE 
and NCFECE staff, District staff of BIPPs and staff of the extension section of Dinas 
PKT.
(d)
Improving the quality and relevance of training programs for farmers and 
extension staff at the District level through (i) the development and updating of 
training modules for core courses and selected technical topics; and (ii) the 
provision of training to BIPP managers and trainers of BIPPs and the extension section 
of Dinas PKT in priority topics. 
3.
Technical Assistance and Project Management Support
(a)
Strengthening Project management and coordination capabilities of the PMU 
and the Sub-PMU through provision of technical assistance, training of staff on 
project and financial management, and provision of office equipment, furniture, 
computers, materials and vehicles.
(b)
Provision of technical assistance to the Participating Districts for 
Project implementation support. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by October 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Except as otherwise provided in this Part, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods for the Project (except Part A.1 (c) of the Project) estimated to cost 
Page  13
less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$200,000 equivalent, and goods for Part A.1 (c) of the Project estimated to cost less 
than $10,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to (i) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (ii) the first three contracts for goods and works 
by each Participating District, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Association Borrowers” published by the Association in January 
1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for extension, management and specialized 
areas under Part C.3 of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
Page  14
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the provision of technical assistance under the Project shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. \0c
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project: 
(a)
the Central Extension Guidance Committee;  
(b)
the PMU with competent staff in adequate numbers, responsible for Project 
coordination and management at the central level; 
(c)
the Sub-PMU with competent staff in adequate numbers, responsible for 
Project coordination and management of agro-forestry activities at the central level; 
(d)
PIUs in each Participating Pilot District with competent staff in 
adequate numbers, responsible for Project coordination and management at the District 
level; and 
(e)
the District Extension Committees in the Participating Pilot Districts. 
2.
The Borrower shall establish, not later than October 31, 2000, and, thereafter 
maintain until completion of the Project, a PIU in each Participating Partner 
District, with competent staff in adequate numbers, responsible for Project 
coordination and management at the District level. 
3.
The Borrower shall cause a District Extension Committee to be established, not 
later than October 31, 2000, and, thereafter maintained until completion of the 
Project, in each Participating Partner District, chaired by BAPPEDA Kabupaten, and 
including representatives from the District agriculture and forestry service units, 
the representative of the District Head, local university, assessment institute, 
training academy, private sector, non-government organizations, and farmer groups. 
4.
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association for comments, by 
December 31 in each year, commencing December 31, 1999, and until completion of the 
Page  15
Project, the annual work plan and proposed budget for the following Fiscal Year.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
set up by October 1, 2001, establish an independent evaluation team with 
terms of reference and members acceptable to the Association;
(b)
cause such independent team to carry out an evaluation of the Project and 
complete such evaluation not later than March 1, 2002; and 
(c)
furnish the results of the evaluation to the Association for comments.
6.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 1, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
7.
The Borrower shall carry out the training under the Project in accordance with 
training programs and timetables acceptable to the Association. 
8.
The Borrower shall provide the vehicles required under the Project in accordance 
with a schedule agreed with the Association. 
9.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall provide to the Association by June 30 in each year, 
commencing June 30, 2000, and until completion of the Project, annual central and 
District level Project progress reports. 
SCHEDULE 5 
Project Performance Indicators
PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR INDICATORS, THE FORMAT WOULD FIT ON THE PAGE
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Page  16
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account and the Loan Account allocated to the eligible Categories plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the 
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions applicable thereto; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section, or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account and the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the respective General Conditions; or
Page  17
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the 
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated 
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the  Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the 
case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, 
including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
