Report No. PIC4545
Project Name             Tanzania-Agricultural Research Project II (@)
Region                   Africa
Sector                   Agriculture/Environment
Project ID               TZPA2804
Borrower                 Government of Tanzania
Implementation Agency    Ministry of Agriculture
P 0 Box 9192
Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania
F Shao, Commissioner Research and Training
Fax: 255 51 46706
Phone: 255 51 24577
Environment Category     C
Date of Initial PID      October 9, 1996
Date of This Update      March 17, 1997
Pre appraisal Date       February 1997
Projected Board Date     September/October 1997
A.      Background
Country and Sector Background
1.      The agricultural sector is a primary pillar of the Tanzanian
economy, it contributes about 60 percent to the country's GDP, 61
percent to export earnings and provides 84 percent of to total
employment. The sector continues to be important in Tanzania's
drive to increase economic growth and reduce poverty. The priority
of Tanzania's agricultural policy is to achieve internal self-
sufficiency in food supply, to maintain adequate levels of
strategic food reserves and to generate a surplus of crop and
livestock produce for export. The agricultural economy is in the
hands of some 3.5 million small holder farmers with average holding
size of 0.9 hectares. Good agricultural land is plentiful but under
utilized, and considerable potential for intensification and
managed horizontal expansion exists. It has been realized that
accelerated agricultural growth can be achieved by increasing the
productivity of the land base focusing on the smallholder sector;
and agricultural research plays a major role in this development as
increased productivity depends on the application of scientific
knowledge to generate improved technologies for the production
systems. In a drive to increase smallholder productivity, a
National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project (NALRP)
(Credit 1970-TA) has been supported by IDA since August 1989; along
with a National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation
Project (NALAERP) (Credit 1994-TA) which became effective in July
1989. Both these projects have been considered as the first phase
of the long-term national research and extension programs,



respectively, which are regarded as the top two core activities of
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
2.      During the past seven years the NALRP has achieved several of
its objectives; and a research master plan has been prepared; a
zonal prioritization exercise has been completed; an Agricultural
Research Fund has been established. Government initiatives in
raising resources for research outside the budget through cess/levy
and revenue retention schemes have made substantial headway; and
research infrastructure has been improved. Research in crops and
livestock has made satisfactory progress, 27 new varieties in food
and industrial crops have been released, and there has been
moderate to substantial increases in productivity of several food
and industrial crops. Despite a 3t population growth, the country
has remained self-sufficient in basic food grains, increased its
agricultural exports and since late-eighties, recorded a growth
rate of over 4 percent in agricultural GDP. NALRP is scheduled to
close on March 31, 1997, and all the funding under IDA has been
disbursed and/or is fully committed.
B.      Project Objectives
3.      The main objectives of the project would be to continue to
improve agricultural research in Tanzania for increasing efficiency
and productivity of the crop and livestock production systems with
sustainable use of natural resources, focusing particularly on the
needs of the smallholder sector. The proposed project will
emphasize client-oriented, demand-driven applied and adaptive
research. It will continue to support (a) the institutional
development of the national agricultural research system, and
assist in decentralization of financial resource management,
operational decision making and formulation of the research agenda
to the zonal research stations; (b) support privatization of
research as appropriate, while encouraging initiatives for raising
extra-budgetary resources for research; and (c) further strengthen
farmer-extension research linkages. The project will also assist in
human resource development.
C.      Project Description
4.      The project will have the following main components:
(a)     Institutional development: This will include further
reorganization of the Department of Research and Training (DRT)
particularly to effectively regionalize research to be more
responsive to the users by conferring financial and operational
autonomy on the Zonal Research Stations. The specific initiatives
would include (i) redefining the roles of the DRT, the National
Research council and the Zonal research Stations with emphasis on
stakeholder participation; (ii) establishment of a Zonal Executive
Council (with substantial representation of research users) to
oversee planning and implementation of the zonal research agenda;
(iii) a separate budget voted for each zonal station; which will
provide financial and operational empowerment of the zones; (iv) an
arrangement for donor coordination; and for promoting and
-2 -



coordinating regional and other collaborative programs; and (v) a
phased downsizing of the research establishment.
(b)     Research Programs: The project will (i) provide operating
costs for the priority research programs in food crops, livestock
and environmental programs (e.g. soil conservation, agroforestry);
(ii) assist in establishing a Zonal Agricultural Research Fund
(ARF) in a few zones on a pilot basis, and assist in working out
modalities for its use in demand-driven research; (iii) strengthen
research infrastructure in Sokaine University of Agriculture (SUA)
and provide support for research programs, and (iv) help in breeder
seed production at the zonal research stations.
(c)     Resource Development and Management: The proposed project
will support strengthening human resource development in the areas
of research planning, zonal research management, and monitoring and
evaluation procedures by (i) providing in-country, regional and
overseas training, based on the outcome of a needs assessment
study, (ii) assistance to Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA)
for carrying out approved training and post-graduate courses and
research; (iii) consulting services and short-term technical
assistance, (iv) selective rehabilitation and renewal of research
stations, relevant equipment and other infrastructure; and (v)
improving documentation and library services, financial management
information and communication sources, research monitoring and
evaluation and accounting systems.
5.      The project will cover the entire country and will closely
coordinate with national extension programs. The project will be
implemented by the Department of Research and Training and the
zonal research stations of the Ministry of Agriculture.
D.      Project Financing
6.      Although the final project cost will be determined during
appraisal, the initial estimates show that the project costs would
be around US$39 million, of which about US$21 million may be
contributed by IDA, about US$17 million by other donors and the
rest by Government, beneficiaries and other donors.
E.      Project Preparation
7.      A Government Planning Team established by MOA and working
closely with the Technical Task Group created under the
Agricultural Sector Management Project prepared project proposals.
These proposals formed the basis of project preparation and pre-
appraisal carried out by a joint IDA/donors/Government mission in
January/February 1997.
F.      Sustainability
8.      Project sustainability is evidenced by the fact that
Tanzanians are designing the project and would use existing
Government channels for implementation. The Government's financial
burden would be reduced by levying a cess on several cash crops for
-3 -



research. Tanzania is also undertaking a restructuring of the
research establishment, which includes reducing the number of
research stations and substations to bring it to an appropriate
size for efficient outputs. Funds thus saved by these cuts would be
used for research programs and better maintenance of the research
infrastructure. Strong Government ownership is further demonstrated
by the Government's classification of national research and
extension programs as the two top priority programs among the super
core projects of MOA and would, therefore, receive priority
resource allocation in the budget. An analysis to determine if the
expenditures of the magnitude needed for the project would fit
within Tanzania's finances would be carried out during the
appraisal mission.
G.      Lessons Learned From Past Operation In The Country/Sector
9.      The Government, the research and the other stakeholders are
prepared to take into account the following main lessons learned;
(I) The zones in which the main action stations for research are
located should have financial and operational autonomy to carry our
their mandate; (ii) the stakeholders (farmers, extension, industry
and trade) should have an effective voice in the priority setting
for the types of programs undertaken, and where applicable, in the
generation of technology; (iii) focus should be on the financial
sustainability of research; the industrial/commercial commodities
should raise resources to meet costs of their research, research in
these commodities should be privatized, as appropriate and the
research establishment should be "right sized" to carry out its
mandate cost-effectively; (iv) poor levels of compensations and
incentives for the scientist have been responsible for an
unsatisfactory "enabling environment" with its negative impact on
efficiency and effectiveness of research; consistent with
Government's civil service compensation policy the researches
should have appropriate incentives commensurate with their unique
working and living conditions; (v) more proactive measures (in
addition to arrangements in place like bi-monthly workshops of
researchers and field extensionists, zonal research technical and
advisory committees, regional extension coordinating committees)
are needed to foster effective research-extension-farmer linkages;
these should be introduced in the institutional arrangements as
well as in research planning and operations. These lessons would be
incorporated in the proposed project.
H.      Poverty Category
10.     The program has a poverty focus and is included in the
Program of Targeted Interventions (PTI). Poverty alleviation is
further addressed in para. 13, Program Objective Categories.
I.      Environmental Aspects
11.     TARP II is ranked C for environmental purposes. Farmers in
Tanzania are one of the major custodians of its natural resources.
Generating technologies for the sustainable use of these resources
is one of the important objectives of the project. Through its
- 4 -



emphasis on factor programs (soil and moisture conservation,
integrated pest management, agroforestry) and participatory on-farm
and farming systems research, the project aims at stabilizing and
improving farming in a degrading environment. The environmental
impact of the project would therefore be largely positive.
J.      Participatory Approach
12.     The preparation process was designed to consult with and
receive inputs from the concerned stakeholders such as the farmers,
including female farmers, NGOs and donors who are active in the
area of research. The Government Planning Team includes
representatives of farmers and other research users, including the
food processing industry and trade, and the Sokoine University of
Agriculture.
K.      Program Objective Categories
13.     The large majority of the poor in Tanzania live in rural
areas. This project will contribute to broad-based poverty
alleviation in the country by supporting technological change and
innovation in agricultural production, which would improve returns
to labor and land, increasing rural incomes, food security and
improving nutrition levels. Smallholders and female farmers will
benefit from the project. The project supports the Government's
private sector development policy and the ASMP (Agricultural Sector
Management Project) in its task of slimming down the MOA to its re-
defined role and the re-allocation of budgetary resources to
activities that are considered public goods, such as agricultural
research and extension. The project would also encourage selective
privatization of research.
L.      Project Benefits
14.     By increasing livestock and agricultural productivity and
output, the project will help to reduce rural poverty, increase
food security and improve nutrition levels. Women farmers who
constitute over 50 percent of the smallholders will particularly
benefit from the project activities. Agricultural growth and
exports will also improve. Through the generation of messages
related to improved fallow, afforestation, and anti-erosion
techniques the project would also have a positive impact on soil
fertility, conservation and water management. The project will have
impact on the rationalization of MOA, and on the quality of staff.
The project will have complementarity with the NAEP II and assist
in improved and more dynamic linkages with extension and farmers.
The economic rate of return of the project based on standard
methodology for research projects will be determined.
M.      Project Risks
15.     The project is subject to institutional, financial and macro-
economic risks. Arrangements for strengthening zonal research
centers with financial and operational autonomy may take time to
establish and may not work effectively, funding constraints may
- 5 -



continue, research may not be adequately demand-driven and research
findings may not be relevant. Safeguards against institutional
risks will be included in the project by ensuring that the
Government commits itself to the required institutional and
administrative arrangements for effective operations of the zonal
centers as envisaged. These arrangements will include Monitoring
and Evaluation (M & E) systems at the zonal level and seminars held
at all zones to familiarize research managers and scientist on key
M & E methods. Results of the M & E will be reported annually.
Considerable resources will be devoted to developing human
resources and strengthening management and procurement. Financial
risks would be minimized by appropriate downsizing of the research
establishment and by raising extra-budgetary resources to
supplement budgetary allocations. Agreement with the Government
will be reached during appraisal about the phased downsizing
process, and estimates will be made of the extra budgetary
resources to be available for research in the project period and
beyond for sustaining the research programs. Any readjustment to
staff size will be based on a study to be carried out by the
Ministry of Agriculture with regard to the scope of reducing the
number of stations and of managing research establishment more cost
effectively. These procedures would include representation of
stakeholders on the zonal executive council and on the national
research council. Linkages between research and extension services
and adoption of research programs at the smallholder level would be
strengthened through bi-monthly workshops, pilot initiatives for
support to farmer seed grower and farmer research groups and joint
implementation of on-farm trials, demonstrations, training and
action research initiatives. These activities would be presented in
the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Demand-driven research by
means of stakeholder representation in the zonal executive
committees and providing an identified budget at the zonal level
for these activities would ensure that priorities and programs
would reflect the concerns of farmers.
Contact Point:           Mr. Ed Quisumbing, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202)- 473-4183
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4, 1997.
- 6 -



