                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                           Report No: 30930

                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (PPFI-Q0740 IDA-30360)

                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 21.8 MILLION

                         TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF

                                   TANZANIA

               FOR THE SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT

                                   ( TARP II)




                               December 28, 2004




AFTS2
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective June 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Tanzania Shilling (Tsh.)
                                       I Tsh. = US$ .001
                                       US$ 1 = 1,107 Tsh.

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                    July 1 - June 30

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB/F    African Development Bank/Fund
ADRI     Animal Diseases Research Institute
ASARECA  Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in Eastern and Central Africa
ASDP     Agriculture Sector Development Programme
ARF      Agricultural Research Fund
ARI      Agricultural Research Institute
CIMMYT   International Centre for Maize and Wheat Improvement
CGM      Cassava Green Mite
CMD      Cassava Mosaic Disease
COR      Client Oriented Research
CCPP     Contagious Caprine Pleuro-pneumonia
DANIDA   Danish International Development Agency
DLRT     Department of Livestock Research and Training
DRD      Department of Research and Development
DFID     Department for International Development
EZCORE   Eastern Zone Client Oriented Research and Extension
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations
FRGs     Farmer Research Groups
FSA      Farming Systems Approach
FSR      Farming Systems Research
FSZ      Farming System Zone
GIS      Geographical Information System
GLS      Grey Leaf Spot
GoT      Government of Tanzania
GTZ      German Technical Assistance Agency
ICRAF    International Centre for Research in Agroforestry
ICRISAT  International Centre for Research in the Semi-Arid Tropics
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFPRI    International Food and Policy Research Institute
IPR      Internal Programme Review
ISNAR    International Service for National Agricultural Research
LD       Lethal Disease
LGMC     Livestock Germplasm Maintenance Centre
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
MIS      Management Information System

MoU     Memorandum of Understanding
NAEP    National Agricultural Extension Programme
NALRP   National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project
NARF    National Agricultural Research Fund
NARP    National Agricultural Research Programme
NARS    National Agricultural Research System
NCD     Newcastle Disease
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Non-Governmental Organisation
NRM     Natural Resource Management
NT/CT   No-Till/ Conservation Tillage
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
R&D     Research and Development
SACCAR  Southern Africa Centre for Coordination of Agricultural Research
SIDA    Swedish International Development Agency
SFI     Soil Fertility Initiative
SUA     Sokoine University of Agriculture
TARP    Tanzania Agricultural Research Project
TaCRI   Tanzania Coffee Research Institute
TORITA  Tobacco Research Institute of Tanzania
TCB     Tanzania Coffee Board
TDT     Technology Development and Transfer
TRIT    Tea Research Institute of Tanzania
TPRI    Tropical Pesticides Research Institute
TSZ     Tanzania Short-Horn Zebu
Tsh     Tanzania Shilling
UDSM    University of Dar es Salaam
VEO     Village Extension Officer
ZARF    Zonal Agricultural Research Fund
ZDRD    Zonal Director of Research and Development
ZILO    Zonal Information Liaison Officer
ZTC     Zonal Technical Committee
ZRC     Zonal Research Coordinator
ZRELO   Zonal Research and Extension Liaison Officer

                               Vice President:  Gobind T. Nankani
                            Country Director    Judy O'Connor
                              Sector Manager    Karen Mcconnell Brooks
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Ladisy Chengula

                                          TANZANIA
                                      Tanzania TARP II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Achievements from Research Programs                                     33
Annex 9. List of Selected Case Studies                                           35
Annex 10. Executive Summary of the Government ICR                                41

  Map IBRD 29232

Project ID: P002804                                                  Project Name: Tanzania TARP II
Team Leader: Ladisy Komba Chengula                                   TL Unit: AFTS2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 27, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Tanzania TARP II                                         L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0740; IDA-30360
   Country/Department: TANZANIA                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (72%); Agricultural extension
                            and research (28%)
                  Theme: Other rural development (P); Rural policies and institutions (P);
                            Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/30/1996                                     Effective: 03/31/1998                06/11/1998
     Appraisal: 11/03/1997                                         MTR: 11/01/2000                  03/05/2001
      Approval: 01/29/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOT/Min of Agric and Food Security
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               James W. Adams
Sector Manager:                 Karen Mcconnell Brooks                         Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR:             Ladisy Chengula                                Satish Kumar
ICR Primary Author:             Jane A. N. Kibbassa


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context: The Tanzania Agricultural Research Project phase II (TARP II), like its twin National
Agricultural Extension Project phase II (NAEP II), was designed as a second phase of support for
incremental strengthening of Tanzania's agricultural technology system. TARP II and its predecessor, the
National Agricultural and Livestock Research Project (NALRP, Cr. No. 1970 ­ TA) supported
agricultural research, and the National Agricultural and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project
(NALERP, Cr. No. 1994 - TA) supported extension. When the project was designed in the mid 1990s,
Tanzania's Agricultural Research System, like those of many African countries, was starting to overcome a
legacy of inadequate funding, lack of clear priorities for research, weak links to extension and to ultimate
users of the products of research, and low staff morale. The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
(MAC), the governmental body at the time charged with overseeing agricultural development, recognized
the need for improved technology, particularly for smallholders. As the National Agricultural and Livestock
Research Project (NALRP, Cr. No. 1970 ­ TA) closed in 1997 the Government sought continued support
through a new project for agricultural research, to run in tandem with the second phase National
Agricultural Extension Project (NAEP II, Cr. No. 2899 - TA). NAEP II became effective in October 1996
and continued until December 2003. TARP II became effective in March 1998 and continued until June
2004.

Although the Government sought continuity in support, TARP II was not intended simply as a linear
continuation of earlier activities. The Government of Tanzania, with the support of various bilateral and
multilateral donor agencies, re-evaluated the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) and
requirements for its strengthening in 1997/98. As a result of this evaluation, the Tanzania Agricultural
Research Project - Phase II (TARP II) was formulated in 1998 as part of the overall Government effort to
strengthen the agricultural sector, and to make agricultural research more effective.

The project's development objective (PDO) as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of
November 1997, was to "support the generation of technology to increase efficiency and productivity
of crop and livestock production systems with sustainable use of natural resources, focusing on the
needs of the smallholder sector". TARP II sought to assist in decentralization of financial management,
operational decision making, and the formulation of the research agendas to Zonal Research Centers
(ZRCs). The project also supported privatization of research as appropriate, and emphasized
client-oriented adaptive research. Efforts were made to strengthen linkages with extension, and to move
from research on individual commodities to attention to farming systems. Furthermore, TARP II was to
assist in human resource development, improvement of research planning, zonal research management and
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) procedures.

The project's focus on changes in the system of agricultural technology to improve sectoral productivity
was reflected in Tanzania's medium term development strategy. The latter sought to increase overall
economic growth to at least six percent by the year 2000, and was substantially achieved. The project was
consistent with the country's development objectives and the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) that called for efforts focusing on raising agricultural productivity. It was envisaged that the basis
for overall growth, and agricultural growth in particular, was to be through improved provision of
economic services (research and extension, rural access roads, water resource development and links
between social and economic services) for smallholders. In fact, much of the aggregate growth was
achieved outside of the agricultural sector, but agriculture also made a contribution by growing at 4.3 % on



                                                     - 2 -

average over the period of TARP II's implementation, which was about a percentage point higher than
growth achieved over the 1990s.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Changes in the wording of the Project Development Objectives (PDO) were made during Mid-Term
Review (MTR) in March 2001 to reflect an increased emphasis on institutional development aspects of the
project in response to changes in the Ministry of Agriculture structure. Although the PDO wording was
changed, the TARP II original PDO basically remained valid. Prior to the MTR, the Government split the
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MAC) into three ministries; namely, the Ministries of
Agriculture and Food Security (MAFS), Water and Livestock Development (MWLD) and of Cooperatives
and Marketing (MCM). The creation of the three ministries brought a revision of the mandate of the then
Department of Research and Training (re-named Department of Research and Development, or DRD).
The new DRD exclusively dealt with crops and related natural resource management. Research on
livestock and range management was placed under the Department of Livestock Research and Training
(DLRT) in MWLD. The restructuring of entities responsible for research and training created disbursement
bottlenecks under the project, since expenditures had already been organized based on the prior institutional
arrangement. Furthermore, extension staff were transferred to the districts and reported to a new Ministry -
President's Office Regional Administration and Local Government (PORALG). Redeployment of people
within the new structures also affected smooth implementation of ongoing research activities. Following
these critical changes, the Bank and Government agreed to place increased emphasis on institutional
development aspects of the project to ensure that the project development objectives could be met within the
new institutional environment. The project development objective statement was subsequently changed to
reflect the increased institutional development emphasis as follows " to increase the efficiency and
productivity of crops and livestock production systems focusing on the small holder sector and
institutional strengthening." Since the project development objective was not viewed as substantial, the
task team did not seek Board's approval. In this regard, the ICR team assessment of the project outcomes is
based on the original project development objective.

The changes at the MTR brought greater clarity by introducing a more sharply defined set of indicators
than those included in the PAD. The revised objective was to be achieved through: (1) increasing the
efficiency and productivity of agricultural production (crops and livestock), as well as sustainable use of
natural resources through generation and dissemination of appropriate agricultural technologies, with
emphasis on the needs of smallholder farmers; (2) supporting the institutional development of the NARS,
particularly the empowerment of the ZRCs, in financial resource management, operational decision making
and the formulation of demand-driven, client-oriented zonal research agendas; (3) encouraging greater
private funding of agricultural research as well as the strengthening of linkages between farmers, extension
agents and research scientists and; (4) strengthening of DRD's capacity to manage and co-ordinate
agricultural research through the improvement of research planning, monitoring and evaluation as well as
human resource development, rehabilitation of research infrastructure, and procurement of essential
research materials and equipment. Key performance indicators for outcomes and outputs of the project for
these four key elements were also established during the MTR, and are indicated in Annex 1. These four
elements are consistent with the initial PAD PDO.

3.3 Original Components:

TARP II consisted of three components: (i) institutional development; (ii) research programs support; and
(iii) resource development and management. The project had a total of fourteen sub-components as listed
under each component below:



                                                     - 3 -

(a) Institutional Development (US $ 2.93 million). The project was to continue with the process of
institutional reforms of the research establishment initiated during the preceding project. The main
activities included: (i) redefining the roles of the then Department of Research and Training (later DRD and
DRLT), the National Agricultural Research Council (NARC) and ZRCs with emphasis on stakeholder
participation; (ii) establishment of zonal executive committees (ZECs) with substantial representation of
research users; (iii) financial and operational empowerment of the zones; (iv) an effective arrangement of
donor coordination and for coordinating regional and other collaborative research programs; (v) a phased
consolidation of the research establishment; and, (vi) initiatives for privatizing research, as feasible.

(b) Research Programs support (US $ 8.50 million). This component sought to: (i) provide incremental
operating costs for the priority research programs in food crops, livestock and other programs (e.g. soil
conservation and agro-forestry); (ii) strengthen research infrastructure at Sokoine Agricultural University
(SUA) and provide support for research programs there; (iii) assist in establishing Zonal Agricultural
Research Funds (ZARFs) through pilots in a few zones initially, including the establishment of guidelines
for operating the ZARFs on a demand-driven basis; and, (iv) help in breeder seed production at the zonal
research stations.

(c) Resource Development and Management (US $ 11.55 million). This component aimed at: (i)
strengthening human resource development; (ii) providing assistance to SUA for carrying out approved
training programs; (iii) consulting services and short-term technical assistance; (iv) selective rehabilitation
of research stations, equipment and infrastructure; and, (v) strengthening communications, documentation
and library services, and research M&E.

3.4 Revised Components:

After the MTR, the project retained the three original components, and the Institutional Development
component was amended to include additional tasks, namely: re-integration of the Veterinary Investigation
Centers (VIC) into the research system under the Animal Disease Research Institute (ADRI) as "Livestock
Investigation Centers;" resumption of regular inter-zonal research and development meetings; and support
to the establishment of pro-active programs with international research institutions. The Resource
Development and Management component was also revised during the MTR. The changes were necessary
because of unrealistic budget estimates and the need for additional works and goods that were initially not
planned (such as the tissue culture laboratories for Uyole, Ukiriguru, Mikocheni, Tengeru and Temeke, and
procurement of six units of Automatic Weather Stations). The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was
revised to incorporate the above changes. Similarly, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was
amended to reflect the reallocation of Credit proceeds in Schedule 1 to accommodate the project's new
priorities and focus.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project was not subjected to a performance rating by the Quality Assurance Group for Quality at
Entry. Ex-post, the quality at entry is judged to be marginally satisfactory; satisfactory because it
incorporated lessons from other projects and emerging understanding of best-practice in design of systems
of research, but only marginally so because the critical attention to monitoring of impact and returns to
research was neglected. The design of TARP II was in line with the overall mandate of DRT (and later
DRD and DLRT); namely, carrying-out of client-oriented, demand-driven and efficient research. The
project was designed so as to: (i) incorporate lessons from previous investments in the sector, both in



                                                        - 4 -

Tanzania and other countries such as Uganda, Malawi and Kenya; (ii) accomplish and sustain the good
work done during the predecessor project (NALRP), and NALERP. Some of the lessons drawn from these
experiences were that: (i) zones, as the main action stations for research, should have final and operational
autonomy to carry out their mandates; (ii) the stakeholders should have an effective voice in setting the
research agenda; (iii) focus should be on financial sustainability of research; (iv) more pro-active measures
were needed to foster farmer-research-extension linkages; (v) the research establishment should be
consolidated for more cost-effective management.

Despite these positive features, the project design lacked clearly-defined KPIs in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD). This inadequacy became apparent during the TARP II MTR and was subsequently
addressed. A well-defined set of KPIs should have been developed during project preparation in order to
provide benchmarks and to guide the M&E system as well as the final impact assessment. It should also be
noted that the log frame approach was not in use during the project planning stage. In order to mitigate this
anomaly DRT, with TARP II support as early as 1998, commissioned the Bureau of Agricultural
Consultancy and Advisory Services (BACAS) of Sokoine University to undertake a detailed survey to
collect baseline data on existing farming systems. As part of project M&E, time series surveys and studies
were to be undertaken to measure and record the impact of new technologies developed by ZRCs. During
the course of project implementation, however, many research projects were conducted in villages other
than those where the BACAS baseline data were collected. This implies that the BACAS sampling
procedures did not take into account the priority areas already identified and planned by the zones. As a
result, the M&E data from the 2000 and 2003 time series surveys could not be compared to the baseline
survey data of 1998 to determine the impact of improved technologies adopted by participating farmers.
(the implementers have another view of this situation, stating in their comments that "areas covered by the
baseline survey and the 2001 and 2003 surveys were consistently conducted in almost the same intervention
areas within the same farming systems, same villages and farmer research groups. The problem with the
survey was not its inadequacy but that is was partially analyzed.") Although the analyses of 2000 and
2003 time series data has shown that a significant proportion of participating farmers have adopted
improved technologies, the failure to provide adequately for monitoring and evaluation during project
design could not be compensated even by laudable efforts during implementation. For that reason, quality
at entry is considered to be only marginally satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall, during TARP II and with the support of IDA funding, Tanzania undertook institutional reforms
that strengthened the capacity for agricultural research, managed research programs of generally high
quality, and developed technologies that, when applied on a pilot basis, proved successful in raising
productivity and incomes. The institutional framework was strengthened, as noted in greater detail below.
The generation and dissemination of technologies was commendable as evidenced by the number of new
varieties developed and released. There was also increased private sector funding for cash crop research,
particularly coffee and tea. Moreover, Tanzania's agricultural sector performed well on balance over the
years of implementation of the project. Despite deteriorating international prices for key crops, such as
coffee and cotton, and several years of poor rainfall, Tanzania has made significant progress towards the
Government's target of sustained annual agricultural growth of 5 percent. The five-year moving average
agricultural GDP growth rates were about 3.3 percent from 1990­2000, and 4.3 percent over 1999-2003.
Over the latter period, productivity improvements, through yield changes, have contributed more to growth.
On this basis, the overall project performance is satisfactory. Case studies of success are available even
though it may be difficult to generalize from these to the performance of the project as a whole. Although



                                                      - 5 -

M&E survey reports have not included, the cost benefit analysis shows positive returns with likely income
increases of smallholder farmers who participated in on-farm research (collaborating farmers) in various
farming systems. In addition, the project had a substantial impact of crop (yield) loss prevention,
particularly for maize.

Strengthening of human development was clearly accomplished, but constraints in the public service system
of remuneration limited the ability of the research system to retain qualified staff. The training must
therefore be considered to have been only marginally successful in meeting the underlying objective.
Finally, the institutional changes were commendable with regard to strengthening of the zonal research
stations and consolidation of the system. At the same time, the ministerial reorganization reduced the
effectiveness of the research and extension systems. Outreach and adoption varies significantly despite the
positive development of appointment of the Zonal Research and Extension Liaison Officers (ZRELOs).

Despite these noted shortcomings, the project is rated satisfactory as highlighted above. Moreover, as far
as most of the project sub-components are concerned, significant achievements were observed. M&E
surveys conducted in 2003 that compared the yields achieved by farmer groups (FGs) collaborating with
research in on-farm adaptive trials with those obtained by other (non-collaborating) farmers indicate that
collaborating farmers' yields were significantly higher (Table 3 on Annex 8). The project also made
substantial achievements in other areas as summarized in a table of case studies (Annex 9), and as
indicated in the outcome indicators in Annex I. Special care was taken by TARP II to address existing
weaknesses in research-extension-farmer linkages. A total of 37 improved crop varieties and 10 different
innovations for livestock production were developed and disseminated to collaborating farmers (farmers
participating in various on-farm research activities) and non-collaborating farmers (farmers not involved in
on-farm research) as indicated on Table 1, Annex 8. The most notable achievements include the
development of loss preventing technologies, such as the Grey Leaf Spot (GLS) and Cassava Mosaic
Disease (CMD) resistant varieties, as well as new tomato varieties which have significantly reduced
post-harvest losses by increasing shelf life. Some of the achievements resulting from soil fertility initiatives
include yield increases in cotton and rice of between 20% and 60% in a wide range of environments.
Training targets were fully met: 21 PhD and 27 MSc. students from DRD and DRLT were trained, and
about 943 staff attended various technical and managerial short-courses. Decentralization of ZRCs and
development of competitive ZARFs were fully realized. The objectives related to strengthening of Farming
Systems Research (FSR) and demand-driven client-oriented research (COR) were adequately addressed.
Farmer participation in technology development was enhanced and involvement of the private sector
increased through greater cost-sharing of industrial crop research (for Tea, Coffee and Tobacco). The
design of the Agricultural Services Support Program (ASSP) currently under development as one of the
ASDP pillars is based on the institutional framework and research programs management system
established under TARP II. Despite the focus on the smallholder sector, the project also responded to
medium ­ large scale or commercial farmers's needs through the client oriented research and management
approach (CORMA) arrangements. Results from contract research financed by large plantations, input
suppliers (seeds and agrochemicals) and the international research institutions indirectly benefited
smallholder farmers.

The project design also facilitated and enabled coordination with other donors actively supporting the
Tanzanian agricultural research system. The design accommodated linkages within the NARS particularly,
with SUA and with external research institutions, especially the Centers of the Consultative Group for
Agricultural Research (CGIAR) such as ICRAF, CIMMYT, IITA, ICRISAT and CIAT. This
collaboration also contributed substantial funds, physical facilities, technical support and training to the
research effort at the ZRCs.




                                                     - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Institutional Development (US $ 2.93 million)

The main objective was to continue to support development of the NARS and assist in decentralizing
financial management, operational decision-making and the formulation of the research agendas to the
ZRCs. The project has largely achieved its core objective of developing and strengthening a more
efficiently managed NARS in Tanzania. Overall, the project has completed its intended institutional
reforms and laid a solid foundation for more effective client-oriented research in the future. Outputs by
sub-components are listed as follows:

Redefining the roles of the DRD Headquarters establishment, the National Agricultural Research
Council (NARC) and of the ZRCs with emphasis on stakeholder participation: The reorganization of the
DRD/DLRT to empower the zones to do research responsive to farmers' needs has been very effective. In
order to develop strong institutional capabilities, the responsibilities of different institutions were re-defined
with greater zonal (and client) empowerment in making decisions on the research agenda and resource
utilization. Partnerships and linkages among the collaborating stakeholders were increasingly emphasized.
Following the restructuring of MAC, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between MAFS and
MWLD was signed to ensure that functional linkages between all entities concerned with agricultural
(crop) production, animal health and animal production research were maintained. The ZRCs remained
intact and continued to carry out integrated research programs on crops, livestock and natural resource
management. MoUs were also signed between ZRCs and respective Local Government Authorities
(LGAs). However, these MoUs were not legally binding in terms of roles and responsibilities of both
parties, including financial contributions and technical backstopping requirements. On the part of overall
project coordination, the envisaged national advisory and coordination body was not established. It was
envisaged in the PAD that NARC would be formed, but despite calls from various supervision missions,
this did not happen. A stated reason for not doing so was that the Commission for Science and Technology
(COSTECH) was able to coordinate all research activities in Tanzania. However, COSTECH's coverage
is too broad to remain focused on agriculture related matters.

Establishment of ZECs with substantial representation of research users: the establishment of
autonomous zonal research committees such as the Internal Program Review (IPRs), the Zonal Technical
Committees (ZTCs) and the ZECs in which zonal stakeholders are empowered to determine and influence
the research agenda and budget in their respective zones, was accomplished and effectively operationalized
in all seven zones. Zonal meetings of the IPRs, ZTCs and ZECs have strengthened the interaction between
researchers and stakeholders, thus making the research agenda more focused, client-oriented and
demand-driven. These efforts much improved the process of technology development and dissemination.
During the project period these committees played a very important role in controlling the relevance and
quality of the zonal research agenda. The committees met annually to review the progress of research
activities and proposed research programs to ensure that they respond to the priorities as seen by
stakeholders. The committees have been dominated by progressive farmers and researchers, and additional
efforts are needed to reach out to poorer farmers.

Financial and operational empowerment of the zones: The project was expected to facilitate devolution of
financial management and control of resources to the ZRCs, and this was partially attained. Though the
ZRC were given the mandate to plan and budget for all their activities, financing depended on disbursement
by the Government, which has been erratic and inadequate throughout the TARP II implementation period.
This resulted in major cuts in zonal priority research projects, since funding to the research activities was in
many cases below the level approved by the ZECs. This jeopardized not only the size but also the quality


                                                       - 7 -

and continuity of the zonal research agenda. These problems are partly related to difficulties with the
imprest­based financial management system. TARP II headquarters required financial reports from the
zonal centers on monthly basis, and imprests were to be retired within 14 days after completion of the
intended task in order to apply for Special Account replenishment based on Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). The ZRCs (which were inadequately staffed with accountants) repeatedly failed to meet the tight
turn-around cycle and as a result, often ran out of funds. In addition, some of the important aspects of the
project such as procurement, vehicle maintenance and servicing of machinery were not decentralized, and
this posed implementation bottlenecks in the zones. In order to improve the financial operations the Bank
supervision mission of March 2001 recommended the following actions: (i) Zonal managers should be
instructed to work closely with accountants in making sure that all required financial information is made
available as and when needed; (ii) urgently fill vacant accounting positions; and (iii) arranging for
contractual technical backstopping support.

An effective arrangement of donor coordination and for coordinating regional and other collaborative
research programs: Effective donor coordination and partnership was realized. This is demonstrated by
the involvement of several bilateral donors and other development partners in supporting various activities
in the zones to complement efforts of TARP II. These included: the Netherlands Government, which
successfully supported the piloting of COR in the Lake and Northern Zones (1998-2003); Ireland Aid's
Eastern Zone Client Oriented Research and Extension project (EZCORE); and the NORAD-funded
research project component at SUA, re-enforcing the TARP II-SUA assistance. Other donors included
Sweden/Sida, which provided funding for the National Agricultural Research Fund (NARF),
Germany/GTZ, supporting a coconut improvement program, Denmark/DANIDA providing funding for
plant genetic resources and the European Union supporting industrial crops (tea, coffee and cotton) through
the "STABEX" fund. During project implementation, several research activities were supported by
regional networks, mainly the Association for Strengthening Agricultural Research in Eastern and Central
Africa (ASARECA) and the IARCs. The project annual donor consultation meetings ensured harmonized
processes, information sharing and joint evaluation of progress. TARP II/DRD/DLRT management was
represented in the concerned Steering Committees and other project review fora. At zonal level, the
progress of research activities supported by various donor agencies, regional networks, IARCs and other
development partners was reviewed during IPR meetings to ensure that they were addressing priority
problems of the zone.

A phased consolidation of the research establishment: The process to consolidate the Tanzanian research
establishment was initiated during the first phase (NALRP) in accordance with a staffing plan and NARS
inventory developed under the World Bank-supported Agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP)
implemented during 1993-2001. The intent of the restructuring was to improve effectiveness and efficiency
in the delivery of research services. NALRP facilitated the closure of several research sub-stations and
facilitated staff redeployment. The TARP II project continued this process. A total of twenty five out of
fifty research stations were closed during the period of implementation of NALRP and TARP II. Staff
were redeployed to ensure a mixture of appropriate skills in response to the needs of a particular zone. In
terms of institutional restructuring, this was a major and ambitious undertaking, and it was accomplished
with minimal disruption.

Initiatives for privatizing research: this sub-component aimed at rationalizing the functions of the
publicly-financed NARS and at increasing private sector participation in research and development in the
agricultural sector. Private sector involvement particularly in cash crop research was promoted through
joint undertakings with agro-industries (e.g. cotton, sugarcane and cashew) or privatization of research
such as occurred in tea, coffee and tobacco. Privately funded institutes (through the crop cess and with EU
support) were established for Tea Research Institute of Tanzania (TRIT), the Tanzania Coffee research


                                                     - 8 -

Institute (TaCRI) and the Tobacco Research Institute of Tanzania (TORITA). This initiative was intended
to reduce pressure on the Government budget and to free up resources to finance core public research
programs. Private financing for tea and coffee research has led to: improved management, a more
cost-effective technology development and transfer process, and improved service delivery which has in
turn resulted in increased productivity. TRIT and TaCRI represent successful models for privately run
agricultural research institutes, and succeeded in delivering significant outcomes and benefits to the
intended clients cost-effectively. This has been possible through the horizontal integration of research,
extension and farmer, as well as vertical integration between farmers and commodity processing firms, like
tea and coffee factories. The main sources of operational funds for TRIT and TaCRI are cesses and levies
(1.5% and 0.75% respectively), STABEX funds and crop sales (from Institute production). TRIT is also
receiving support from the UK Department for International Development (DfID). TORITA depends
solely on a research levy charged on tobacco "green leaf" (of Tsh 2.00 per kilogram).

Although privately funded research in coffee, tea, and tobacco has been successful in terms of the quality of
the research effort, there remain concerns about funding levels. The current levels of cess/levy appear too
low to fully to support research (in the absence of EU support). TORITA in particular is experiencing
problems associated with inadequate funding, human resources and a general lack of appropriate facilities.
Moreover, the cess and levies for coffee and tea are collected and managed by the crop boards, which have
a mixed history of performance. With prices of the products for which research was privatized depressed
on global markets, the advisability of asking poor smallholders to pay for the research is questionable.
Given the poverty of smallholder growers, the long term financial sustainability of these new institutions
will depend on continued public support, either directly from the budget or indirectly through donors. TRIT
and TaCRI seem to be doing well currently while still receiving STABEX funds. Although efforts to
increase private funding for the remaining cash crops (e.g. cashew, cotton, sugarcane) are ongoing, the
Government will need to consider continued public support for research undertaken by the privatized
research institutions as long as the constituency they serve remains predominantly poor and the research
outputs are public goods. Such an approach would be fully consistent with principles of best practice in
design of research systems, in which public funding can support private delivery of services.

Component 2: Research Programs Component (US $ 8.50 million)

The focus of this component was to support research programs emphasizing development of appropriate
technologies in order to improve production by small-scale farmers. Overall the achievement of this
component was satisfactory. A large number of new research technologies including the release of
new varieties, agronomic and management practices, post harvest technologies, natural resource
conservation, livestock production and disease control were recommended for use by farmers. These
have been adopted at moderate rates to date, and adoption can be scaled up. Mechanisms for ensuring
greater farmer demand in the system have also been established. Outputs for each sub-component are
highlighted below:

Provide incremental operating costs for the priority research programs in food crops, livestock and
factor programs (e.g. soil conservation and agro-forestry): Activities under this sub-component were to a
large extent successfully accomplished. Development and dissemination of appropriate agricultural
technologies was highly satisfactory. DRD researchers exceeded the MTR targets with the development
and dissemination of 37 improved crop varieties. Other technologies developed by DRD were on crop
protection, agronomic practices and post harvest technology. Recommendations on appropriate
management of soil fertility were developed. Agro-forestry technologies were also developed and
recommended to farmers. From an M&E survey of 2003, a general increase in the use of improved seeds
and technologies was observed by collaborating farmers. In order to make a rigorous evaluation of the


                                                     - 9 -

impact of improved technologies, however, additional information beyond dissemination such as adoption
rates and impact is necessary. With regard to DRLT, the research effort on production and use of
thermostable New Castle Disease (NCD) vaccine I-2 has successfully reduced mortality of poultry. This is
an important measure in poverty reduction and improved nutrition at the household level. Researchers also
developed strategies to improve livestock productivity through proper feeding, improved management
practices and disease control.

Strengthen research infrastructure at SUA and provide support for research programs: Mainstreaming of
SUA into the NARS was aimed at building the capacity of SUA to respond better to the needs of
smallholder farmers. This was achieved through support from the IDA TARP II Credit and a grant from
NORAD. A total of US$ 504,000 was allocated from TARP II for 5 years to support priority research
activities, procurement of research materials, equipment and infrastructure development. Four research
projects were conducted by SUA staff, and office equipment and a vehicle were procured from the IDA
component. The NORAD component provided a total US$ 5,298,650 to support the TARP II-SUA project
on Food Security and Household Income for Smallholder Farmers in Tanzania with emphasis on women,
implemented in Southern Highlands and Eastern Zones, from 2000-2004. A total of 34 client
oriented/demand driven research projects that involved researchers for SUA, MAFS and the Agricultural
University of Norway were conducted in the project areas. Both the IDA Credit and the NORAD grant
were fully disbursed as of June 30, 2004.

Assist in establishing Zonal Agricultural Research Funds (ZARFs through pilots in a few zones initially)
and establish guidelines for operating the ZARFs on a demand-driven basis: TARP II was successful in
facilitating the process of establishing ZARFs including development of management guidelines,
organizational set up and operational modalities. The ZARFs were established with contributions from
district councils, development partners and other sources. These contributions received matching funds,
initially at 100% and later at 50% from the World Bank, as part of TARP II financing. In addition TARP
II supported zonal stakeholders meetings to create awareness on the value and relevance of the contribution
of research to agricultural development, and concerning the successes and constraints faced by ZRCs.
Currently, ZARFs are institutionalized in all seven zones and ZARF management committees are in place,
although performance has varied by zone. The district councils were initially quite responsive and several
councils made substantial contribution/commitments to ZARFs. The level of commitments and actual
contributions to ZARFs during the project period varied across the zones and none of the zones attained
their estimated targets. The total contributions to ZARFs was Tsh 572,368,535, mainly from district
councils, bilateral donors and export crop industries (cashew); Tsh 321,000,000 was matched through
TARP II. A total of 48 research projects were supported by ZARFs in the Northern, Lake, Southern and
Central zones. The Southern Highlands, Eastern and Western zones experienced very poor responses to
requests for ZARF contributions and did not support any research activities during TARP II
implementation.

Overall, the flow of district contributions to ZARFs during the project period has declined and poses a
challenge for future funding. The contribution to ZARFs by district councils is likely to change in the
future due to: (i) changes in fiscal arrangements at the district level, with local government capital grants
and district agricultural development grants coming on-stream soon; and, (ii) increased emphasis on
empowerment of farmers and participatory decision making at district level. Competitive grants and
collaborative research under the new system of local governmental finance have a great potential for
augmenting the ZRCs' resource bases.




                                                     - 10 -

Help in breeder seed production at the ZRCs: Involvement of research centers in breeder and foundation
seed multiplication contributed substantially to availability of improved seeds to farmers. Breeder seeds of
maize, phaseolus beans, rice, sesame, groundnuts, sorghum, millet, cowpeas, wheat and barley were
produced and distributed. Certified seed of both rice and hybrid maize has also been produced. The
amounts of seed of improved crop varieties multiplied through ZRCs in 2003 are presented on Annex 8.
Although TARP II also facilitated improvement in the amount of breeder seed production by the research
centers, this activity needs to be further scaled up. In addition, through TARP II, DRD in collaboration
with the DANIDA-supported Agricultural Sector Program Support (ASPS), initiated informal seed
multiplication and distribution ventures in order to produce "Quality Declared Seed" (QDS). In order to
fill the continuing gap in seed availability, ZRCs may in the future need to involve the private sector and
facilitate this activity being undertaken on a commercial basis.

Component 3: Resource Development and Management Component (US$ 11.55 million)

The objective of this component was to provide support for the development of human resources, essential
research infrastructure and in improving critical support services and systems. Outputs from the
sub-components were as follows:

Strengthening human resource development: This sub-component was satisfactory; a significant number
of research scientists and support staff received short and long-term training courses in various disciplines
within Tanzania and abroad. The number of scientists trained at PhD level was nearly 100 % of that
planned (62 against the target of 63). Staff numbers trained for MSc surpassed the target by 4.5 %. In
addition, 21 new BSc. graduates were recruited so as to reach a current level of 67 graduates in this
category. These figures imply that the targeted 1:3:1 ratio for PhD: MSc: BSc has essentially been
attained. Staff members who completed their training and returned to their respective stations are
performing well in their research work. The main challenge is retain the scientists as well as ensure
succession since about half of the senior staff are due to retire in the next five years.

Providing assistance to SUA for carrying out approved training programs: This sub-component also
successfully achieved its core objective. The project-supported training of 32 MAFS staff to MSc and PhD
levels at SUA, and several researchers for short courses in various professional areas. In addition, the
TARP II-SUA project: (i) enhanced the capacity of both SUA and MAFS/MWLD researchers to conduct
client-oriented and demand-driven research; (ii) strengthened Farmer-Research-Extension linkages through
an interactive participatory research methodology; (iii) enhanced exchange of experiences and expertise
between SUA and MAFS researchers; and, (iv) developed an in-built M&E and impact assessment system
which enhanced project management and coordination, and contributed to institutional impact for both
SUA and MAFS/MWLD.

Procurement of Goods and Services: Procurement mainly focused on replacement of items supplied during
the first-phase project (NALRP) as well as consumables such as laboratory reagents, spares for vehicles
and farm equipment. As of May 2004, a total of US $ 3.5 million were spent and this is equivalent to 96%
of plan. This amount includes goods and services procured for TARP II-SUA (US $ 210,000). Major
activities included: procurement of furniture for DRD/DLRT headquarters building (Kilimo II); contracts
for ICB tenders for 53 vehicles, 35 motorcycles, 8 tractors plus implements, 20 photocopiers, 59 computers
and accessories, miscellaneous laboratory chemicals & equipment, 15 scanners, 10 multimedia projectors
and 6 trucks. It also covered the supply of water pumps; telephone switch boards, 90 bicycles, water
tanks, automatic weather station and workshop tools.




                                                     - 11 -

According to the DCA, procurement was to be done by DRD/DRLT headquarters. Contracts for the
procurement of goods and services were accordingly signed by the Permanent Secretary, MAFS, sometimes
without adequate consultation or involvement of ZRC management. Since the zones were not fully
involved in the process of overseeing consulting services, items procured in some cases did not fully suit
their priorities and requirements. For example, the standard design of biotechnology laboratories was
assumed to be meet the requirements of all four research stations, but was later on found not to be the case.
Similar problems applied to maintenance of vehicles and servicing of equipment and machinery. The
garages to be used by the zones were pre-selected by DRD/DLRT Headquarters and in some zones this
was found not to be the best option. Difficulties were also encountered in procurement of goods and
services in the initial stages due to staff shortages and unqualified staff. This resulted in considerable delays
in procurement. The situation however, improved later after short term training, seminars and workshops
on procurement.

Selective rehabilitation of research stations, equipment and infrastructure: Overall the achievements of
this sub-component include 80% of the targeted station rehabilitation and 50% of the planned irrigation
works. The research station rehabilitation program involved the following centers: Ilonga, Uyole, KATRIN,
Maruku, ADRI - Temeke, Mlingano, PRC - Kongwa, Selian, Tumbi and LPRI - Mpwapwa. The
construction of bio-technology laboratories was carried-out at Mikocheni, Uyole, Ukiriguru, ADRI -
Temeke and HORTI - Tengeru. Construction of screen houses at Uyole, Ukiriguru, Selian and Mikocheni
was also part of the plan. Most of the contracts for civil works were awarded between the last quarter of
FY 2002/03 and first quarter of FY 2003/04. In this regard most of the civil works could only be better
assessed towards the end of the project. The February, 2004 IDA supervision mission rated overall quality
of constructed civil works at most ZRCs unsatisfactory. The mission thus recommended to the Government
to ensure that all defects are rectified prior to handing over the construction sites to the concerned stations
and take to task the incompetent consulting engineers. However, very little action has been taken four
months after project closure. Given the importance of these facilities for research work and for the
sustainability of TARP II-supported activities, the Government will need to ensure that the contractors
finish the work and rectify all defects prior to handing over the facilities to the zones. Furthermore, close
contract supervision by the ZRCs management is considered important in order to ensure quality work and
greater accountability.

Strengthening communications, documentation and library services: Efforts were made to establish
appropriate systems of information acquisition, management and dissemination. Integration and
strengthening of the ICTs, documentation and library services has brought about an expansion and
institutionalization of such services including an MIS, GIS, and other databases. DRD's Research and
Training Newsletter continues to be produced, although irregularly at present. In addition, the DRD/DLRT
activities have been widely publicized through websites. This has greatly improved dissemination of
information by the DRD/DLRT, as well its public image locally and globally.

Documents and databases from FAO and CABI in CD-ROMs format were acquired and disseminated to
researchers and other stakeholders. These included a subscription to complete sets of "The Essential
Electronic Agricultural Library (TEEAL)" that has enabled the scientists to have access to the full-text of
over 140 of the most important journals in agriculture. Currently TEEAL is available at the DRD/DLRT
Headquarters and all the ZRCs. The DRD/DLRT has also subscribed to a number of on-line databases
including Global On-line Research in Agriculture (AGORA) that provides access to over 400 journals from
major scientific publishers in the fields of food, agriculture, environmental science, and related social
sciences. Information flow and communication has been improved between DRD head office and the ZRCs
through e-mail and Internet access. Six ZRCs (Selian, Ukiriguru, Tumbi, Uyole, Ilonga and Naliendele)
have full Internet access, while the rest have e-mail connectivity.


                                                       - 12 -

Research M&E: During the project period, an M&E process was established. A detailed baseline survey
was conducted in 1998 to collect data on the existing farming systems and to serve as a bench-mark for the
assessment of project impact. This was followed by collection of subsequent data from collaborating and
non-collaborating farmers in selected target areas, using structured questionnaires developed on the basis of
key parameters from the base-line survey. Two rounds of surveys were undertaken in 2000 and 2003, in
which 840 and 1995 farmers were involved respectively. In addition, supervision missions, the MTR,
senior managers' field visits and zonal annual review meetings and Project Steering Committee sessions
supplemented M&E of research activities. Some adoption studies on specific technologies were also carried
out to track the impact of research activities. Important routine supervision, internal monitoring and
evaluation procedures were the responsibility of the zonal research managers and ZECs. The zonal
research managers and lead scientists, however, were not allocated sufficient funds to accomplish these
functions and the participation of ZECs in monitoring research programs remained low during the project
period. Moreover, the zonal socio-economic units responsible for M&E lacked the required human,
technical and financial capacity. A well-established M&E time series data and results of adoption studies
should have been aggregated to measure the overall impact of various technologies introduced over the
project period; this has not been possible. Therefore in future M&E should be made routine and in-built in
the work plans at both national and zonal levels.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Calculation of the net benefits of research interventions requires a comparative approach along two
dimensions: "before and after the project" and "with and without the project". In the absence of baseline
data, only rough approximations can be made. Specifically, the PAD's ex ante rate of return can be
recalculated in light of ex post information on the project's yield impact. "With and without" yield
improvements are documented in Annex 8, Table 3 of this ICR. All other assumptions in the PAD's ex
ante analysis are maintained (Annex 3), including those relating to adoption rates (25% of farmers
adopting in the first five years of the project). The adoption assumption must be maintained because of the
absence of any solid monitoring information on adoption rates at this stage. The limitations of the analysis
should therefore be kept in mind when interpreting the results ­ lower adoption rates than those assumed
would obviously reduce the project's net benefit. This provides a further argument for urgent improvement
in the monitoring of technology adoption, an issue raised elsewhere in this ICR.

The table below contrasts average annual yield increases projected in the PAD's cost-benefit analysis with
yield increases derived from data collected over the life of the project (as documented in Annex 8). It gives
a mixed picture: showing changes that are in some cases close to or larger than those projected in the PAD
(maize, cotton, coffee, cassava) and in some cases smaller (sorghum, paddy, cashews, pulses, wheat).

Projected vs. actual annual yield increases (percentage)

 Crop                      Projected                   Actual
 Maize                        8.2                           7
 Sorghum-millet               5.0                           1
 Paddy                        7.8                           4
 Cotton                       6.0                          20
 Coffee                       6.7                          16
 Cashewnut                   17.5                          11
 Cassava                      7.2                          14



                                                      - 13 -

 Pulses                       10.0                         7
 Wheat                        5.0                         (2)

Sources: projected increases come from TARP II PAD; aggregate increases reflected in Annex 8, Table 3
which compares actual yields of project collaborators with those of non-collaborators.

The project's economic internal rate of return is 21% when computed under the above assumptions -
essentially the same as the ROR computed in the PAD. The Net Present Value is $22 million, slightly
larger than that reported in the PAD (a discount rate of 12% is used). These results reflect the offsetting
effects of yield improvements for maize, cotton, coffee and cassava on yield reductions for other crops.
While no data was available on yield improvements for a few commodities that were included in the PAD's
analysis (e.g. tobacco, tea, cattle) some commodities not dealt with in the PAD have seen impressive yield
increases under the project - notably oilseeds, potatoes and bananas. The return estimates may be an
underestimation of benefits as much research was focused on loss prevention rather than yield
improvement. For example - the grey leaf spot (GLS) tolerant maize variety (UH615) was developed in the
Southern Highlands zone and this controlled a serious fungal disease which was causing up to 50% crop
loss. Likewise, cassava mosaic disease (CDM)-tolerant clones with the potential of reducing yield losses
by 80 - 100% were developed in the Lake zone.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

Financial Rate of Return is not calculated separately.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project has strengthened the NARS through maintaining ongoing research efforts and adding new ones,
consolidating the system for greater cost-effectiveness, enhancing the human resources, and increasing
participation of stakeholders, particularly through the devolution of functions to the zonal level. The roles
and responsibilities of DRD were (re-)defined in line with ZRCs created during the first phase of the
project (NALRP). Reorganization of the DRD/DLRT to empower zones to do more farmer-responsive
research has been effective. ZARFs were established and supported in the context of de-centralization and
empowerment of ZRCs. The establishment of ZARFs opened ways for local authorities and the private
sector to contribute to research funding. This enhanced cost sharing and partnerships.

Institutionally, the formation of autonomous zonal research committees (IPRs, ZTCs, and ZECs) was a
positive step. This contributed to bringing researchers closer to the clients and involving the stakeholders
in the zonal research planning process. In addition, the appointment of Zonal Research and Extension
Liaison Officers (ZRELOs) enhanced research ­ extension ­ farmer linkages. Empowerment of farmers to
manage new or improved technologies and dissemination of the technologies to non-collaborating farmers
or villages was in many places quite impressive. Farmers themselves have assisted in training their fellow
farmers and through "farmer's" and "field" days.

The project has strengthened the human capital base, research facilities, infrastructure, including staff
houses and institutional capacity of DRD/DLRT. TARP II enhanced the capacity of researchers to write
scientific proposals to access competitive research grants and collaborative research. The project also
assisted the zones in identifying potential sources of income that could augment the zonal basket ("Self
Help Funds"). The self help resource window has played an important role in financing zonal research
activities. Collaborative research activities with IARCs, networks, NGOs agro-industries and competitive



                                                     - 14 -

research grants have contributed substantial funds, research facilities, technical support and training to
ZRC.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

In accordance with the DCA, the Authorized Allocation for the Special Account was limited to US $
750,000. This amount was not sufficient. The situation improved in the third year due to an enhanced
financial management system and an increase in the authorized allocation in the Special Account from US
$ 750,000 to US $ 1,250,000.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The Government contribution (of 10% counterpart funds) was delayed and inadequate in the first year (8%)
and there were no disbursement (0%) in the second year; this eventually affected disbursements to the
zones. Disbursement improved in subsequent years, amounting to 100% of the total budget allocation in the
last three fiscal years. By the end of May 2004, the Government had disbursed a total of Tsh. 1,429
million, which is 16% more than the amount committed in the DCA.

The Government Imprest system that had to be followed was found to be inappropriate for research
activities. Transaction costs were high and it was not possible for researchers to account for allocated
imprest within 14 days after completion of the task. Moreover, this matter was further complicated by the
persistently low and delayed disbursements to the zones. Instead of using SoE to file withdrawal
applications for the replenishment of the special account, DRD has proposed to use Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs) system in the future support for agricultural services. The latter provides quarterly or
bi-annual budget resources based on action plan and financing requirement forecast.

The reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture into three different ministries had a negative impact on
the research effort and had no discernible positive effects in other dimensions of sectoral performance.
While research administration remained under the MAFS, extension services were decentralized and overall
coordination of project implementation in the districts was moved to PORALG. Although the decision to
decentralize was appropriate and has yielded benefits even in the medium term, at the time local authorities
were weak and confusion reigned. This disrupted the research-extension-farmer linkages which were
critically important to achieve impact; and to enhance interaction of key players to ensure that available
technology was transferred to farmers and adopted.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The implementing agency should have ensured greater accountability and been more pro-active in dealing
with those involved in the poor quality of civil works in the research stations.

Apart from TARP II SUA, the overall project M&E procedures were not satisfactorily established. The
base-line data were not adequate for tracking the impact of research activities. Although the project
mitigated this deficiency through base-line surveys and special adoption studies, this information was not
well aggregated to measure the overall impact of various technologies introduced over the project period.

The disbursement bottlenecks (for four months during FY 2000/01) due to the splitting of research and
training institutions following the ministerial reorganization could have been addressed in a more


                                                     - 15 -

expeditious manner. Lengthy tendering procedures coupled with limited skills and shortage of staff within
the implementing agency affected the overall procurement efficiency.

Low staff motivation was recognized by DRD/DLRT management, and proposals to provide special
awards to the best performing researchers were developed. However due to funding limitations, cash
awards were distributed in FY 2001/2002 only. A total of US $ 17,894.8 cash prizes were awarded to 56
researchers and 51 technicians. Staff morale is still low, mainly due to poor remuneration. As a result,
there has been a serious brain drain of scientists: 52 staff members (19 PhD holders, 30 MSc and 3 BSc)
have left for better jobs outside DRD (including to privatized research). A more efficient mechanism for
staff motivation with adequate performance incentives need to be development in consultation with
President's Office, Public Services Management (PSM) department.

Despite the broad stakeholder involvement in the zonal committees, participation of a critical mass of
actual smallholder farmers has been insufficient, and adoption of new technologies has suffered as a result.
The weakness resulted in part from the confusion associated with the early stage of decentralization and
unclear mandates at the local level. This weakness has been acknowledged by DRD/DLRT, and will be
addressed by greater emphasis on farmer groups in the support for agricultural services under the context
of the proposed Agriculture Sector Development Program (ASDP). During the course of the project
implementation, mechanisms for regular interaction between research and extension were disrupted due to
unclear division of labor between MAFS and the President's Office Regional Administration and Local
Government (PO-RALG). This problem was addressed by signing of Memoranda of Understandings
(MoU) between the ZRCs (still under Central Government) and District/Municipal Councils (under
PO-RALG). In order to strengthen the working relationship and clarify tasks between Local Governments
and MAFs, a position of a Zonal Research Extension Liaison Officer was created in the zones. It however,
took much time and effort to make the new arrangements functional and effective. The implementing
agency did not have control over the process of decentralization and the new division of labor at the local
level, but a faster reaction to the changing circumstances would have enhanced performance.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total project costs were estimated at US$ 22.98 million over a five year period (1998/99 ­ 2002/3), out of
which IDA would provide US$ 21.75 million and US$ 1.23 was to be contributed by the Government. In
addition, bilateral donors provided parallel support in other priority research areas. The project became
effective on March 03, 1998 with closure originally scheduled for June 30, 2003. The project actually
closed on June 30, 2004 after a one-year extension. Following recommendations made by the last TARP II
supervision mission (as mentioned in the Closing Aide Memoire from the June 7-11, 2004 Mission), the
project had the standard grace period of four (4) months, up to October 31, 2004 to pay for outstanding
bills for goods and services. By the end of May 2004, IDA had disbursed a total of US$ 20.67 million
(97%) and the Government of Tanzania had disbursed a total of Tsh. 1,429 million (116%). The remaining
IDA balance of US$ 753,317.23 was disbursed during the grace period, and by October 31, 2004 a total of
US$ 21.39 million, equivalent to 99.8% was disbursed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Institutional level: Overall project sustainability is likely. Support within the Government, including
Ministry of Finance, to invest in agricultural technology is high. The reorganization of the DRD/DLRT to
empower zones to do research more responsive to farmers' actual needs has been satisfactory. Overall, the



                                                       - 16 -

institutional framework in which agricultural technologies can be improved is now better understood and is
incorporated in the Agricultural Sector Development Program (ASDP). ASDP is a medium term program
for agricultural development that will be supported by donors jointly under a sector wide approach. One of
the five strategic intervention areas of ASDP is to improve agricultural support services. Within this
context, the Government has designed the agricultural services pillar of the ASDP around three key
components: (i) farmer empowerment; (ii) provision of services; and (iii) program management. The next
phase of support will integrate research and extension services as a continuation of the efforts made by
TARP II in the institutionalization of FSA and the Client-oriented Management Approach (CORMA). In
order to bridge the financing gap between the closing of TARP II and new support under the sector wide
approach, MAFS has in FY 2004/05 set aside an incremental development budget of TShs 350 million and
a recurrent expenditure budget of TShs 1,000 million for crops research and development activities. A
livestock research budget of Tsh. 480 million has been allocated from MWLD. The Government has
embarked on a recruitment process to fill the knowledge gap, particularly in socio-economics with
promising responses. Finally, the decentralization process has matured enough that new roles are
understood at the local level, and new arrangements for financing will become operative in the coming year.
The local government capital grants and the district agricultural development grants can increase demand
for knowledge about new and promising agricultural technologies, and provide resources for adoption, and
complementary investments to increase returns to adopters. Thus the decentralization process that created
impediments to good performance of the research establishment in recent years should be reversed as the
capital and development grants roll-out.

Farm level: The sustainability of achievements of the project at farm level is also likely. Farmers have
learned from their involvement in dissemination of the technologies to non-collaborating farmers. Farmers
are able to explain confidently the entire research process and results generated, and in some cases, farmer
experimentation is ongoing. Farmers on their own initiative have assisted in training their fellow farmers
and disseminated technologies through farmers days. In collaborating villages, Farmer Research Groups
(FRG) were formed voluntarily and this is very important for empowerment and sustainability. Since the
project only managed to cover a limited population of farmers in on-farm research, demand for improved
seeds and other technologies is quite high among collaborating as well as in non-collaborating villages.
Outreach, although commendable, could have been improved by greater use of publications and materials
explaining improved technologies. According to farmers, their involvement in all steps of research trials has
not only improved the relationship between researchers, extension staff and farmers, but also saved
researchers time in the field. The project also contributed to promotion of indigenous knowledge through
farmer study visits and leaflets. FRGs are quite committed to continue working with researchers on new
technologies.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

There is no doubt about continuity of important activities as well as institutions created by TARP II since
the Government is committed to continue financing research stations and maintain the already established
linkages. The institutional framework accomplished under TARP II will be strengthened under ASDP.
Already this financial year 2004/2005, GOT has disbursed funds to the zones for supporting ongoing
research activities. Although the funds are at present not sufficient to cover all the activities in the zones, it
is a good indication of the Government's commitment. Donors have pledged support to the roll out of the
follow-on Agricultural Services Support Program. Public support for investment in agricultural technology
is likely to rise with the new mechanisms for financing at the district level. District Councils will have more
money with which to pledge to ZARFs as well as to continue supporting the Research ­ Extension ­
Farmer linkages through contract research. In order to ensure that improved research facilities are being
utilized as intended, there is a need for the Government to insist that the pending rectification of the civil



                                                     - 17 -

works is effected. The Government has verbally committed itself that funds will be set aside so that the civil
works are rectified and completed before handing the facilities to the research centers.

Some current activities are supported through the Bank-financed Participatory Agriculture Development
and Empowerment Project (PADEP). These will include rehabilitation and supply of equipment and
reagents to four soils laboratories at Mlingano, Selian, Ukiriguru and Uyole; PADEP will also support
personnel training on laboratory management.

The Agriculture Sector Development Strategy (ASDS) is now in place and programmatic support for the
ASDP, including agricultural services, is being formulated.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The project was the second to be financed by IDA as part of a long-term support program for agricultural
research. TARP II was designed to continue to support the institutional development of the NARS and
assist in the decentralization process which was initiated by the predecessor project, the NALRP. As part
of project preparation, the Bank assisted by among other things sharing of experience and lessons from
previous Bank supported projects is the sector. For example, the lessons from previous investments in
Malawi, Uganda and Kenya were incorporated into the project design. As noted above, however, quality at
entry was only marginally satisfactory due to weakness in monitoring and evaluation. An effort dependent
on public funding such as agricultural research is highly vulnerable if results cannot be shown rigorously.
For that reason weakness in monitoring and evaluation is a serious deficiency in design. The Bank's
contribution to the project preparation is therefore considered marginally satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

Overall project supervision during the entire project implementation period is considered satisfactory. The
project scored a "satisfactory" rating by Quality Assurance Group at supervision conducted in 2002. The
Bank maintained regular supervision and a total of nine missions were fielded between 1999 and 2004.
Moreover, for the final years the project was supervised from the field, so implementation support was
provided on a regular basis in between formal missions. Throughout the project life, the supervision teams
focused on the development objectives and overall progress of project implementation. The Team was
thorough in assessing all project activities and discussed with the Borrower issues that required immediate
actions. Some of the key issues which the Bank team identified and proposed solutions include: reduced
interaction and inadequate coordination between staff from different zones; low disbursements to the Zonal
Research Centers; and the poor quality of constructed civil works. Many implementation issues were
addressed at MTR where revision to the Project Development Objective was also agreed upon in response
to institutional changes within Government. The project had a moderate turnover of Task Team Leaders
(TTLs)- (three throughout the project life). The project also managed to involve some of the same
individuals in most of the supervision missions so that continuity to a large extent was maintained. The
achievements concerning the Development Objective and implementation progress of the project have
always been rated successful during all supervision missions.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank was supportive in project preparation.
During supervision missions, the Bank discussed and recommended solutions to implementation



                                                     - 18 -

bottlenecks. The Bank assisted the borrower to make necessary changes to the project implementation plan
as needed.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The performance of the Government during the preparation of the project is considered satisfactory. The
Government participated actively in all steps of project preparation and produced the required
documentation for appraisal and approval and in a timely manner.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's implementation performance is marginally satisfactory. Project performance was
affected by insufficient counterpart funds in the early period and by a lengthy procurement procedures
during the first two years. The situation in these two regards improved thereafter. The reorganization of
the agricultural ministries and fragmentation of responsibility for oversight of agricultural research reduced
the effectiveness of the project for a significant period. Furthermore, separation of the extension staff from
MAC affected the research ­ farmer ­linkage that the project was trying to build. Although this was solved
by MoU between MAC and all the district councils involved, these MoU were not well known in the zones.
As a result, the implementation and proposed funding arrangements were not followed. Consequently,
researchers and extension staff have had difficulty coordinating activities that required financial
contributions from both. As the decentralization has matured and roles at the local level are more clearly
understood, the situation has improved.

Non completion and poor quality of the civil works illustrates weakness on contracts management. In
addition lack of involvement of the ZRC management in contract supervision contributed towards poor
quality of civil works. The Government should have ensured proper utilization of resources by being more
proactive in supervising and inspecting the contractors' work.

Despite these noted shortcomings on the part of the Government, the project was able to meet its objectives,
as noted above. Performance is therefore rated marginally satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory. The rating is based on the following
assessments: despite the delays and low levels of disbursements in the first two years of the project, 97% of
the project funds were disbursed by June 9, 2004 and used for intended purposes. The envisaged
institutional structure was put in place, research activities continued at a high level of quality, scientists
were trained, and decentralization of activity to the zones accomplished. Annual work plans, progress
reports, including audits have been submitted in accordance with the agreements. The borrower complied
with the legal covenants. Despite this generally satisfactory performance on the part of the implementing
agency, several shortcomings are apparent. Due to poor the remuneration package offered by the public
sector, the three deceased zonal accountants in the Lake, Central and Northern zones could not be replaced
during the project time. The implementing agency was not efficient enough in seeking timely technical
assistance for some important studies, such as the beneficiary assessment, cost benefit analysis, and
analytical interpretation and maximum utilization of survey data. Management and supervision of
contracts could have been better.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:




                                                      - 19 -

Overall Borrower Performance is considered satisfactory, based on ownership and responsibilities in
project preparation, the contribution of counterpart funding, and overall supervision of project
implementation.

8. Lessons Learned


Consensus needs to be reached on how research programs should be evaluated, and these goals need
to be properly reflected in project objectives. The ultimate economic impact of investments in
agricultural research depends on many factors beyond the control of the research system, such as the
effectiveness of the extension/farmer advisory services, agricultural marketing policies, international prices,
weather conditions, prevalence of diseases and pests, etc. In addition, much of the impact is likely to occur
after the investment period of the program. Therefore, several dimensions of impact need to be measured,
including progress towards effective and sustainable institutional structures, results on the ground, and
farmer satisfaction with the relevance and responsiveness of the agricultural knowledge system.

Key performance indicators should be clearly defined during project preparation in order to guide the
monitoring and evaluation system. Baseline data surveys, special impact studies should be designed to
focus on issues of concern in a way that ensures analytical evaluation of data. Project monitoring and
evaluation should be routine and in-built in the work plans, and with adequate budget provision at both
national and zonal level. Competent monitoring and evaluation is needed for management of research and
to secure continued public support for it. Retrofitting of a good framework for monitoring and evaluation,
even when intentions are good and resources available, is risky.

Public support for research undertaken by non-public institutions is appropriate and in some cases
necessary. Producers of commercial crops in higher income countries can pay most or all costs of research
through levies or set-asides, and this approach to funding is appropriate. Where many producers are
smallholders in poor countries, however, research will be under-funded if it is dependent on the ability of
producers to pay. Privatized, or non-public research entities, such as TaCRI and TRIT, may be able to
achieve gains in management relative to public institutions, but they are likely to require public financial
support, either from the budget or from donors.

Decentralization of management of research to the zones can result in improved performance and
impact, but the decentralization must be coherent, including financial management and procurement,
as well as technical decisions. The transition process, especially in terms of flow of funds, has been
difficult, but the payoffs in terms of creating a system which can address local farmer/client needs in an
effective, efficient way have been substantial. Zonal units must interact, and not become scientifically
isolated from each other. Decentralization must be matched with good systems of supervision and
knowledge sharing.

Farmers enjoy and benefit from their involvement in applied research, and mechanisms to ensure
greater farmer control over research resource allocation decisions improves research effectiveness.
Involvement of farmers builds commitment and competence, and also helps leverage time of researchers.
The use of farmer research groups (FRGs) in the implementation of on-farm research improved
research-extension-farmers linkage and research cost sharing. Client Oriented Research Management
Approach (CORMA) can effectively facilitate demand-driven research, and contribute to institutional
sustainability. The ZARFs and associated ZECs provide a useful base to strengthen farmer and broader
stakeholder demand within the research system.



                                                      - 20 -

The research system must maintain a critical mass of skilled staff, and this may require modifications
in standards of remuneration. Maintenance of a sustainable critical mass of skilled staff within the
research system is necessary for sustainability of research work. Further, the fact that there has been some
erosion of human resources due to inadequate incentives calls for a need to improve the latter. This
problem is being faced by many of the NARS in the region and cannot be solve if addressed by the
agricultural sector alone. The Commission for Science and Technology (COSTECH), together with the
national research institutes (health, forest, fisheries, wildlife, etc.,) and the Ministry of Public Service
develop a special need to consider alternative remuneration packages for researcher scientists, as is the case
for the public Universities and other higher learning institutions.

There is a need to look at agricultural research and extension as one package for an effective
dissemination and adoption of improved agricultural technologies. The separation of research and
extension services support has not effectively addressed the challenge of dissemination of technologies
generated by DRD. Although MOUs were signed to enhance the linkages of research (under
MAFS/MWLD) and extension services (under PO-RALG), and ZRELOs were appointed for each of the 7
zones, greater harmonization and linkage would have improved effectiveness. Efforts should be made to
integrate research and extension services in future agricultural sector support programs.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Executive Summary of the Government ICR is provided in Annex 10. The Ministry of Agriculture
and Food Security also provided comments on a draft version of the ICR, which have been incorporated.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                       - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Strengthening agricultural research systems 100%                                      100%
- Zonal Executive and Technical Committees
established and meetings held; operational
powers delegated to zonal research directors

Rationalization of public research network - 100%                                     100%
Public research network reduced from 50 to
25 research stations; research work
decentralized to zones; SUA being
mainstreamed; much of zonal programs now
conducted on farm.

Privatization of Research & Sustainable      100%                                     90%
Research - Tea research privatized; both
coffee and tobacco research being privatized;
research in most industrial commodities now
carried out using cess/levy funds or industry
contributions.

Human resource development - Personnel       100%                                     100%
needs assessment done; Action Plan for
training in place; 38 scientists deputed for
training; 200 attended short courses.

Strengthening Research-Farmer and            100%                                     90%
Extension Linkages-Extension staff farmers
and NGOs participation in IPR and ZEC
meetings. New institutional arrangement for
research/extension linkage being set up
under MoU.

Strengthening planning, monitoring           100%                                     95%
evaluation - Zonal PM&E units in place;
baseline survey carried out; PM&E formats &
performance indicators revised and
introduced.

Improving research management - Improved 100%                                         95%
financial mgmt. system introduced and fully
operational; budget & accounting manuals
developed and introduced; DRT
headquarters connected to internet; INFORM
database updated.

Implementation of Procurement & Training     Satisfactory                              Satisfactory
Plans - Satisfactory

Counterpart funding                          Satisfactory                             Satisfactory

Disbursement Status.                         Satisfactory                             Satisfactory

Impacts (adoption, yields, incomes) - PIP    50%                                      95%
envisages measuring these impacts through
regular follow-up studies and surveys at
mid-term and project closing.


Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Improved varieties/innovations developed     A minimum of 15 new crop varieties and 5 37 improved crop varieties released and more




                                                              - 22 -

                                           different innovations for livestock will be     than 10 different innovations for livestock
                                           introduced by years 2003.                       introduced in target areas


Research-capacity improved                 The number of trained scientists at MSc will    Trained 27 Msc. and 21 PhDs, which is
                                           be increased from 176 to 203 and at PhD         100% achievement. Thus MSc. and PhD
                                           Level from 43 to 64 by 2003. Train 297 staff    increased to 201 and 62 respectively. A total
                                           in short courses.                               of 943 staff trained in short courses.

                                           Research infrastructure for the 7 ZRCs and 4 Achieved about 80% and 50% on station
                                           key institutes improved by 2003.                rehabilitation and irrigation works
                                                                                           respectively.

                                           Research facilities improved by year 2004.      Achieved about 98%


Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation (PM&E) Zonal units for PM&E established and            The Socio-economic units established. About
systems institutionalized                  operational.                                    70% of staff introduced on PM&E concepts.
                                                                                           More involvement in surveys, farmer
                                           60% and 40% of the research managers and technology assessment, conducting partial
                                           scientists trained on key PM&E                  benefit-costs analysis and monitoring of
                                           concepts in FY 1999/2000 and Y 2000/01,         research activities.
                                           respectively.


Crop and livestock yields increased        By 2003 crop yield/livestock products will be   These data are according to M&E survey of
                                           increased as follows:                           2003. This year was badly affected by
                                                                                           drought

                                           Rice: 1.4 t/ha -2.0 t/ha                        Rice: 2.040 tons/ha
                                           Maize: 1.5 t/ha - 1.8 t/ha                      Maize: 1.508 tons/ha
                                           Sorghum: 0.9 t/ha - 1.5 t/ha                    Sorghum: 0.627 tons/ha
                                           Millers: 0.7 t/ha - 1.2 t/ha                    Millet: 0.563 tons/ha
                                           Beans: 600 kg/ha - 750kg/ha                     Beans: 0.791 tons/ha
                                           Cassava: 2.2 t/ha - 2.8 t/ha                    Cassava: 1.169 tons/ha
                                           Tea: 0.8 t/ha - 1.4 t/ha                        (data not available)
                                           Cotton: 0.8 t/ha - 2.5 t/ha                     Cotton: 0.715 tons/ha.

                                           Poultry:                                        Poultry:
                                           Commercial chicken 200-240 eggs/layer/year - Commercial chicken 225 eggs/layer/year
                                                                                           - Local chicken 53 eggs/layer/year
                                           Local chicken 45 - 60 egg/layer/year
                                                                                           Local: 750 lits/year/lactation
                                           Milk production:                                (in intervention villages)
                                           Local from 600 - 1500 litres/year/lactation     Improved: 1950 lits/year/lactation
                                           Improved from 1,600-2400 litre/year/lactation

                                           Beef cattle:
                                           Carcass weight increase from 150-180kg          Carcass weight: 160 kg


Animal diseases and pest incidences        At least technology for the diagnosis of tick-
minimized                                  borne diseases established by year 2003
                                           2.2

                                           At least 2 IPM methods developed by Year        Two IPM technologies for the control of
                                           2003                                            banana weevil and striga weed in cereals
                                                                                           recommended.
 Incomes of participating farmers Improved Increase by a minimum of 20% by 2003            data not available
                                           relative to year 1998


Management Information Systems improved    Management Information Systems (MIS)            Database using INFORM-R developed; 5
                                           institutionalized and expanded at all levels by zonal farming systems, agro-ecological, and
                                           year 2002, e.g. CD-ROM, INFORM, GIS             soil maps available using GIS; DRD website
                                           scheduled meetings, reports etc.                in place; Various agricultural technologies
                                                                                           easily accessed in CD-ROM format.

1End of project
A rating of 100% signifies complete accomplishment of the indicated action



                                                               - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Institutional Strengthening                               2.93             3.10            12.8
2. Research Programs                                         8.50             8.09            36.9
3. Resource Development and Management                      11.55           11.64             50.3

Total Baseline Cost                                         22.98           22.83
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.00
 Price Contingencies                                         0.00
                          Total Project Costs               22.98           22.83
                    Total Financing Required                22.98           22.83


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            2.26         0.29          0.00         2.55
                                   (0.00)          (2.04)      (0.26)          (0.00)       (2.30)
2. Goods                            2.60            0.45         1.09          0.00         4.14
                                   (2.60)          (0.45)      (0.98)          (0.00)       (4.03)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         8.75          0.00         8.75
Training and Research              (0.00)          (0.00)      (8.75)          (0.00)       (8.75)
Grants
4. Operations and                   0.00            0.00         7.54          0.00         7.54
maintenance
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (6.67)          (0.00)       (6.67)
   Total                            2.60            2.71        17.67          0.00         22.98
                                   (2.60)          (2.49)      (16.66)         (0.00)      (21.75)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           3.06         0.40           0.00        3.46
                                   (0.00)         (2.20)       (0.30)         (0.00)       (2.50)
2. Goods                            2.75           1.00         0.42           0.00        4.17
                                   (2.39)         (0.90)       (0.41)         (0.00)       (3.70)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00         3.90           0.00        3.90
Training and Research              (0.00)         (0.00)       (3.90)         (0.00)       (3.90)
Grants
4. Operations and                   0.00           0.00        11.30           0.00        11.30
maintenance




                                                - 24 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (11.30)            (0.00)           (11.30)
        Total                               2.75               4.06             16.02             0.00             22.83
                                           (2.39)             (3.10)           (15.91)            (0.00)           (21.40)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Institutional                2.93         0.00                     2.90         0.20                  99.0      0.0
Development
2. Research Programs            7.53         0.97                     7.39         0.70                  98.1      72.2
3. Resource Development        11.29         0.26                    11.11         0.53                  98.4     203.8
and Management




                                                           - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Adoption of agriculture technologies is a long term process hence difficult to measure the impact over a
short term. On the other hand evaluation of the contribution of research to increases in output is a big
challenge since other variables such as materials input, soil conditions, agronomical practices, supply
constraints, etc. have an affect on adoption and output. In the above context it can be correctly assumed
that increases in yield and adoption rates observed during TARP II may have been a result of predecessor
projects including the National Agriculture and Livestock Extension Rehabilitation Project (NALERP).
The incremental adoption analysis of the potential impact of TARP II research investment relied on the
major production activities of the agricultural sector where research has direct impact (which is
measurable) to estimate the incremental benefit values over a twenty year period. The analysis approach
models the gradual effect of the project on individual farmers, as they adopt new technologies, and obtain
increased output.

The objective of the "incremental adoption" and impact analysis was to see how the new agricultural
technologies and practices would bring about increased agricultural productivity across a series of selected
crops and livestock activities in order for the investment to be justified. The analysis compared the
incremental net benefit streams for changes in on-farm economic value against the incremental off-farm
cost streams invested in research. The ICR follows the incremental adoption analysis to recalculate the
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) over a 20-year period from 1998.

The analysis indicated that the Net Present Values (NPV) of the proposed investment would be positive at
Tshs. 12.6 billion or US $ 21.0 million at a discount rate of 12%. The ERR was estimated at 21% while
the Cost Benefit Ration (BCR) was 1.6.

The "incremental adoption" analysis indicated that the above ERR and BCR could be obtained by the
research-extension system which introduces/transfers technologies and farm practices to about 25% of the
farmers cultivating the selected crops (and raising the selected animals) in the period from the fourth to the
ninth year of the project. Since the crops represent some 70% of the area cultivated, (and if area cultivated
is evenly shared amongst the country's 3.5 million smallholders), this implies that the invested research
funds would bring an additional 875,000 farmers to use improved production techniques over the project
and the post project period. Therefore the project proposed had potential to improve the country's
agricultural GDP growth rate (which by then was about 2.5% p.a.) by about eight percentage points.

In estimating costs, benefits and rate of return a number of assumptions were to be made to guide the
framework of analysis at both the activity (farm) and aggregate levels as elaborated below:

(i) Target production activities: As research planned would be country-wide, a range of activities were
incorporated in the analysis to reflect diversity and representation of different farming systems. In addition,
only activities with demonstrable (measurable) impacts were incorporated in the analysis. Consequently
fourteen production activities (6 cash crops, 6 food crops and 2 livestock activities were selected for the
analysis. These activities account for over 70% of the total cultivated area in a given season and 20% of the
cattle herd. Some cash crops were adopted for analysis as they form an essential part of a smallholders'
farming system. Further, some of the cash crops supported by donor funds and by cess/ levies imposed on
marketing of these crops. These analysis however, excluded the cash (industrial) crops.

(ii) Benefits from Research: Benefits from research (i.e. increased yield values) are derived from new and
efficient technologies and farm practices which are adopted by farmers. In this analysis, production benefits
were estimated net of on-farm input and labor costs. The project impact (net benefits) is compared,



                                                      - 26 -

theoretically, with what would have happened had the project not been implemented (i.e. the with and
without project situation). The benefits 'with project' are assumed to accrue from the fourth year as the first
3 years are assumed to be the gestation period for the new technologies to be adopted by the farmers.
Impact of some technologies is taken from even later years. It should be noted however that agricultural
productivity would continue to benefit from the 'without project' situation due to past research investments
and related factors such as mechanization, but such increment would be very small (e.g. about 0.15% as
opposed to the estimated 8% growth rate p.a. with the project).

(iii) There are several other benefits of the project which are not quantified by this study. The increased
farm productivity derived from the project will enhance food security of the smallholder households.
Increased incomes may be invested in education, and in improving nutrition and health standards. The
project would promote sustainable use of natural resources and help arrest the degradation of environment.
As over half of the smallholder farmers in Tanzania are women, the project will directly contribute to
improving women's incomes and living standards of the families. The project will also contribute to
capacity building through the planned training of some research personnel. Such personnel would improve
their ability to undertake agricultural research through which they would contribute to the country's
objectives of sustainable farming and food security.




                                                     - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/1997                   5    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); FIN. (1);
                                             PROG. ASST. (1); AGRIC.
                                             MGT AND TRAINING (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              08/1997                   7    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             RESEARCH/TECH. (1);
                                             ECON. ANALY. (2);
                                             PROJECT COST (1);
                                             PROCUR. (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MGT. (1)

 Supervision
              11/1999
              11/1999

              11/1999                   5    TEAM LEADER (1); PROC.           S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); RURAL
                                             DEV.SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MGT. SPEC. (1);
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1)
              05/2001                   7    TTL (1); RURAL                   S               S
                                             DEV.SPECIALIST (1)NRM
                                             SPEC. (1); SENIOR AGRIC (1);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              10/2001                   5    TEAM LEADER (1); RURAL           S               S
                                             AGRIC. SPEC. (1); SR. AGRIC.
                                             (1); SR.FINANCIAL ANALY.
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              05/2002                   5    SR. AGRONOMIST (1); RURAL        S               S
                                             AGRIC. SPEC. (1); SR.AGRIC
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST (1); SR,
                                             FINANCIAL ANALY. (1)
              12/2002                   7    TEAM LEADER (1); SR              S               S
                                             FIN.ANALYST (1);
                                             PROC.ANALYST (1); M&E (1);
                                             FIN. MGT.SPEC. (1); NRM
                                             SPEC (1); SR.AGRIC. (1)
              06/2003                   7    TEAM LEADER (1); RURAL           S               S
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPEC (1); SR
                                             FIN.ANALYST (1);
                                             SR.PROC.SPEC (1); M&E (1);



                                              - 28 -

                                           FIN. MGT.SPEC. (1); NRM
                                           SPEC (1); SR.AGRIC.
               02/2004                 6   TEAM LEADER (1); RURAL             S    S
                                           DEVELOPMENT SPEC (1); SR
                                           FIN.ANALYST (1);
                                           SR.PROC.SPEC (1); M&E (1);
                                           FIN. MGT.SPEC. (1);
                                           SR.AGRIC
               06/2004                 5   RURAL DEV. SPECIALIST (1);         S    S
                                           PROCUREMENT
                                           ANALYST(1); FINANCIAL
                                           MNGT SPEC. (1); M&E SPEC.
                                           (1) ANALYST (1); SR.
                                           AGRICULTURIST (CON (1)

 ICR
               10/2004                3     RURAL DEV.SPECIALIST              S    S
                                            (1); OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            45.6                         183.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 17.1                            46
  Supervision                        119.34                         492.07
  ICR                                   10.7                         21.37
  Total                              192.74                         742.54




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document
United Republic of Tanzania, Agricultural Research Project, Report No. 17175-TA, November 25, 1997,
Agriculture Operations Eastern and Southern Africa, Africa Region

Aide Memoire/Supervision Reports
Appraisal Mission (September 11, 1997), Aide Memoire
Project Progress Review Mission ( September 29, 1999) - Statement of Mission Objectives
Supervision Mission/Mid Tem Review (March 2001), Aide Memoire
Supervision Mission (October 2001), Aide Memoire
Supervision Mission (May 2002), Aide Memoire
Supervision Mission (December 2002), Aide Memoire
Supervision Mission (June 2003), Aide Memoire
Supervision Mission (February 2004), Aide Memoire
Closing Mission (June 2004), Aide Memoire

Studies and Reports
1. Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
2. Survey Report of Farmers Participating in On-farm Research, Department of Research and Development
(DRD), Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security, Tanzania, February 2001
4. Final Report on Baseline Survey on the Agricultural Research Systems under the Department of
Research and Training, Bureau for Agricultural Consultancy and Advisory Services (BACAS), Sokoine
University of Agriculture, Morogoro, Dar es Salaam, March 2000
5. Survey Report of Farmers Participating in On-Farm Research, DRD, May 2004
6. Review of Privitazed Agricultural Research, DRD, May, 2004
7 Review of the National Agricultural Fund in Tanzani, DRD, May 2004




                                                  - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Achievements from Research Programs

      Table 1: Varieties Released During TARP II Period

     Crop/Commodity          Number of Varieties                   Name of Varieties
 Maize                                 6               UH 615, Lishe H1, Lishe H2 Lishe K1,
                                                       Situka-1, Situka M1
 Wheat                                 1              Chiriku
 Rice                                  3              TXD306, TXD88, TXD85
 Sorghums                              4              Macia, Pato, Wahi, Hakika
 Millets                               2              Shibe and Okoa
 Phaseolus beans                       5              Wanja, Uyole 98, Uyole 03, Urafiki
 Cowpea                                2              Vuli1, and Vuli 2
 Pigeonpea                             2              Tumia and Mali
 Soyabean                              1              Uyole Soya-1
 Groundnuts                            2              Sawia and Upendo
 Cassava                               3               Naliendele, Mumba, Kibaha
 Sweet potato                          5               Simama, Jitihada, Vumilia, Sinia, Ukerewe
 Cotton                                1               Mkombozi




      Table 2: Improved Seeds multiplied by Research Centers in Year 2003
    Crop                 Variety                       Research Institute             Amount of Seed (tons)
                         Situka                        Selian                         1.58
   Maize
                         Lishe                         Selian                         2.90
                         UH 615                        Uyole                          162
                         Various                       Ukiriguru                      3.7
   Rice                  (Various)                     Katrin and Dakawa              140
   Wheat                 Chiriku                       Selian                         0.3
   Phaseolus bean        (Various)                     Selian and Uyole               48.90
   Sunflower             Record                        Ilonga                         2.5
   Soyabeans             Bossier                       Ilonga                         1.5
   Cotton                Mkombozi                      Ilonga                         0.96
                         UK91                          Ukiriguru                      24
   Cassava               Various                       Kibaha, Hombolo and            2,077,044 cuttings
                                                       Ukiriguru
   Banana                Various (imported             Selian                         8,000 plantlets
                         from Kenya)
   Coffee                Clonal coffee                 Ukiriguru                      103,940 seedlings
   Sweet potato          Various                       Ukiriguru                      443,854 vines




      Table 3: Crop Yield (kg/ha) from farmers participating in on-farm adaptive trials



                                            - 33 -

 (Research Collaborators) and others (Non-Collaborators)

Crop                    Collaborators  Non Collaborators t-test at 5%
Maize                   1635.63        1290.18           S
Rice                    2166.70        1861.53           NS
Sorghum                 635.48         601.48            NS
Sunflower              1348.73         1094.20           NS
Beans                   862.75         675.00            NS
Cassava                1326.85         858.00            S
Coffee                  691.13         418.80            NS
Ground nuts             775.43         625.43            S
Sweet potatoes          3268.45        1570.60           S
Bananas                 9242.03        6085.83           NS
Cotton                  811.85         453.05            S
Sesame                  559.38         327.00            S
Round potato            13630.50       9870.40           NS
Cashew                  694.03         478.18            NS
Pigeon pea              872.63         1086.78           NS
Wheat                   1582.58        1725.55           NS
Cowpea                  603.00         828.00            NS
 Source: M&E Survey of 2003




                                         - 34 -

Additional Annex 9. List of Selected Case Studies of TARP II



   Technical Problems                      Impact                 Existing or Pipeline
                                                                    Technologies in
                                                                        Tanzania
Maize ­ Grey Leaf Spot         Widespread in high altitude      GLS-tolerant and high
(GLS) Disease                  (>1000 m.a.s.l) parts of         yielding varieties (UH
                               Tanzania. The disease causes     615, UH 6303)
                               up to 50% crop loss and          developed at ARI-Uyole
                               declined quality. Maize is a     and now available on the
                               staple food for majority of      market.
                               people in Tanzania, and
                               therefore GLS threatens
                               national food security. Maize
                               is also source of cash income
                               to resource-poor peasants.
Cassava Mosaic Disease         Cassava is an important food     Promising CMD-tolerant
(CMD)                          security crop due to its         clones MM 96/4684,
                               adaptability to marginal soils   MM 96/46/9, SS4, TME
                               and erratic rainfall conditions. 14, I91/00063, I91/2324,
                               Major biotic stress has been     MH 91/0067, and
                               CMD, particularly the            I91/0057 have reached
                               Ugandan Variant (CMD-UgV)        on-farm stage of
                               that reduces potential yields by evaluation
                               80-100%, limiting availability
                               of cassava leaves, an important
                               and nutritive green consumed
                               by many households. More
                               than 500,000 farmers reached
                               through direct and indirect
                               distribution (multiplier effect)
                               of CMD-tolerant varieties.
Post-harvest losses in         Tanzania is among the world      Improved processing
roots/tuber crops e.g. cassava top 10 largest cassava           equipment tested,
                               producers. More than 80% of      recommended and is now
                               total production is consumed     available.
                               as food while the remainder is
                               used as livestock feed, alcohol
                               and starch making, and some is
                               exported. Most traditional
                               products have poor quality,
                               and thus fetch low market
                               values and some is completely



                                               - 35 -

                         spoilt and wasted. More than
                         200,000 beneficiaries have
                         been trained in the past seven
                         years. It includes about 6
                         fabricators, more than 20
                         processors, 400 farmer groups
                         and the rest are individuals
                         farmers.
Bean seed availability   Beans ­ important crop for        Improved varieties Uyole
                         household food security,          94, Uyole 96, Uyole 98
                         general food chain and an         and Kabanima are high
                         important commodity for crop      yielding and tolerate
                         merchants. However, the crop      diseases. They are
                         is faced with low productivity    therefore included in the
                         and tolerance to diseases. High   Quality-Declared Seeds
                         quality seeds are not readily     (QDS) production
                         available.                        system.
                         Bean Improvement Program          Producer and basic seeds
                         has produced producer and         produced and is available
                         basic seeds to a tune of 6        for sale.
                         tones/year, and seed
                         multiplication is going on in a
                         number of regions
Bean Stem Maggot (BSM)   BSM affect bean seedlings         Control measure:
                         below the ground resulting in     application of Murtano or
                         yield losses of up to 50-100%. Marshall at 30 mg/100 Kg
                                                           seeds. Also spraying bean
                         Awareness creation has been       seedling with Thiodan,
                         carried out in Mbeya and          DUSBAN, Sumithion,
                         Mbozi districts about the         Selecron or botanicals 4-5
                         BSM; its insect pest, life cycle, days after germination.
                         mode of action, symptoms and
                         control measures. Earthing-up
                         and soil fertility improvement
                         has been demonstrated to
                         reduce damage. Farmers have
                         started domesticating
                         Tephrosia and Vernonia
                         because they also have some
                         other useful elements of soil
                         fertility improvement and
                         control of livestock
                         ectoparasites. Yield increase of
                         up to 50% has been recorded
                         when BSM is controlled on



                                          - 36 -

                             time.
Short shelf life of tomatoes Tomato is one of the most        Varieties Tengeru 97
                             important vegetable crop         (indeterminate) and
                             grown and consumed in            Tanya (determinate) are a
                             Tanzania. Though fairly high     result of vigorous
                             yielding, the earlier varieties  selection of breeding lines
                             were intolerant to diseases and  obtained from the Asian
                             lacked fruit firmness to         Vegetable Research and
                             withstand long-distance          Development Centre
                             transportation and good shelf    (AVRDC). Seeds for
                             life.                            planting now readily
                             Tanya and Tengeru 97 tomato      available in the market.
                             varieties have increased yields
                             and subsequently incomes by
                             farmers, and have changed
                             dependence on foreign markets
                             for seeds.
Cashew Powdery Mildew        Cashew powdery mildew           ·   Sulphur application at
Disease (CPMD)               disease reduces cashew yields   0.25 Kg/tree/ round (5
                             by up to 70% if not controlled. rounds) at 21 days
                             Cashew is mainly grown by       intervals,
                             smallholders (approx. 280,000 ·     Organic fungicide
                             households) and is main cash    Anvil, Bayfidan, and Topas
                             crop in Mtwara, Lindi and       for control and found more
                             Coast regions.                  effective for cure and
                                                             protection
                                                             ·   20 cashew clones
                                                             identified as potentially high
                                                             yielding and tolerant to
                                                             diseases and pests
Management of nematodes      Banana is an important food     Chemical:
and weevils in bananas in    crop in most parts of Tanzania. ·   Carbofuran 5G control
Kagera Region                In 1978, reduced banana yield   weevils and nematodes at
                             observed from 30 to 4.5         60gm/stool, thrice/year
                             tones/ha due to weevils and     ·   Neem extract sprayed
                             nematodes infestation. It       around stools
                             created food insecurity in      ·   Soaking in Furadan dip
                             Kagera region forcing families Improved varieties:
                             to relocate.                    Yangambi KM5 and
                             After interventions, banana     Bluggoe are known to
                             yields increased from 4.5 to 20 resist nematodes/weevils
                             tones per hectare per year.     Cultural:
                             Increased production and        Weevil trapping; deep
                             consequently income and         planting of stool; Chopping
                             improved livelihoods in Kagera of pseudo-stems after



                                             - 37 -

                            region.                          harvest; intercropping;
                                                             practicing sequential
                                                             uprooting and replanting of
                                                             run-down fields.
Deforestation/environmental Introduction of tree species for ·    Introduced and trained
degradation in tobacco      fuel wood is significantly       farmers how to manage and
growing areas               conserving environment by        use/harvest indigenous fruit
                            reducing pressure on             trees and fruits
                            indigenous miombo forests.       ·    Introduced suitable tree
                            Some farmers have own            species for provision of
                            woodlots.                        fuelwood, soil fertility
                                                             improvement, etc.
                           Trees and shrubs suitable for soil
                           fertility popular among farmers
                           and many have plots for soil
                           fertility improvement in fallow
                           systems.
On-farm Introduction of     About 98% of total cattle         Mpwapwa breed cattle
Dual-Purpose Mpwapwa        production in Tanzania            introduced in pilot
Cattle                      constitutes Tanzania              villages and milk
                            Short-Horn Zebu (TSZ) which       production increased
                            is poor dairy cattle. Earlier     from 1-2 liters to 5-7
                            efforts to improve milk           liters/day under farmer
                            production of TSZ were            management.
                            through crossbreeding at
                            Mpwapwa that resulted into
                            Mpwapwa breed by 1958.
                            Rigorous systematic on-farm
                            testing and evaluation of
                            Mpwapwa started in 1980s
                            and Mpwapwa breed was
                            found to perform best. LPRI       Improved mean birth
                            Mpwapwa developed an              weights range from 21 to
                            elaborate program "Open           30 Kgs, and demand for
                            Nucleus Breeding Scheme" to       bulls has increased
                            assess Mpwapwa cattle under       tremendously.
                            farmer conditions.

                            Apart from evaluation, a
                            program to improve growth
                            rates and body weights using
                            Mpwapwa bulls in pilot
                            villages was also introduced.

                           There has been an increased



                                             - 38 -

                           demand for Mpwapwa bulls by
                           livestock keepers following their
                           performance in the participating
                           locations. For example Longido
                           are in need of 78 bulls,
                           Ngorongoro 120, Simanjiro 40
                           and Manyoni 16 bulls. Given the
                           small number of Mpwapwa cattle
                           at LPRI, JICA agreed to
                           contribute a total of TShs.
                           126,000,000.00 through ZARF
                           for the multiplication of the
                           breed.
Improved Dual-Purpose       Tanzania has 12.5 million       Milk production from the
Goats in Central Tanzania   goats raised under              introduced goats ranged
                            agro-pastoral system with       from 1.0 to 3.0 liters/day
                            average weight 18-25 Kg.        (vs 0.2 liters/day by local
                            Efforts made to improve both    breeds). The goats
                            meat and milk production by     weighed about 2.9 and
                            crossing with exotic breeds     13.5 Kgs at birth and 16
                            into Blended goats with live    weeks of age,
                            weights of up to 45 Kgs and     respectively.
                            1.5 liters /day/doe. These were
                            later put under evaluation
                            under farmer conditions under
                            crop-livestock based
                            production system.

                            25 farmer groups trained on
                            management of dual-purpose
                            goats in 4 districts in 2001,
                            and 500 goats and 50 bucks
                            were distributed to farmers.
                            Goat population increased
                            from 550 to 1856 and farmer
                            groups increased to 43. An
                            APEX body formed to
                            coordinate all primary groups.
Improvement of Rural        Tanzania has a total of 27      Thermostable Vaccine
Chicken Productivity        million chickens under          (I-2) available for control
Through Vaccination Against scavenging production system    of NCD in rural areas.
New Castle Disease          by smallholder farmers. New
                            Castle Disease (NCD) hampers
                            local chicken industry and has
                            caused mortalities of up to



                                             - 39 -

100% where vaccination is not
done. Earlier efforts to control
disease were difficult because
conventional vaccines require
cooling facilities such as
refrigerators that are not
available in rural localities.

Laboratory tests on
thermostability of the
thermostable vaccine (I-2)
were followed by on-farm
testing on the vaccine efficacy,
with over 14 million doses of
vaccine having been produced
for evaluation and on-farm
testing. Results have shown a
reduction of mortality from
80-90% to 10-20%, and the
vaccine remain viable when
kept under room temperature
for 1 month, 6 months in a
refrigerator, and for some
years when frozen.




                 - 40 -

Additional Annex 10. Executive Summary of the Government's ICR


                                      EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

1       Background


        The Government of Tanzania, with the support of various bilateral and multilateral donor
        agencies, appraised the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) in 1997/98
        following a successful implementation of the National Agricultural and Livestock
        Research Project      (NALRP), implemented between 1989/90-1996/97. The appraisal
        identified problems of inadequate funding, lack of clear research orientation and priorities
        that are demand-driven.

        Subsequently it was resolved to design a follow up phase project that would provide a
        framework for addressing the above mentioned problems. The second phase of the
        Tanzania Agricultural Research Project (TARP II) was formulated to continue providing
        support to institutional development of the NARS, implementation of priority research
        programs as well as resource development and management.

        2       Project Objectives:

        The Second Phase of the Tanzania Agricultural Research Project (TARP II) was
        implemented for 6 years from July 1998 to June 2004. The Department of Research and
        Development (DRD) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security (MAFS) executed
        the project, in collaboration with the Department of Livestock Research and Training
        (DLRT) of the Ministry of Water and Livestock Development (MWLD) and Sokoine
        University of Agriculture (SUA).

        Specific Objectives of TARP II were to:
·       increase efficiency and productivity of agricultural production(crop & livestock), as well
as sustainable use of natural resources through the generation and dissemination of appropriate
agricultural technologies, with emphasis on the needs of smallholder farmers;
·       support the institutional development of the national agricultural research system,
particularly the empowerment of the zonal research centers in financial resource management,
operational decision making and formulation of demand-driven, client-oriented zonal research
agendas;
·       encourage the privatization of agricultural research as well as the strengthening of
linkages between farmers, extension agents and research scientists and;

·       strengthen DRD's capacity to manage and co-ordinate agricultural research through the
improvement of research planning, monitoring and evaluation as well as human resource
development, rehabilitation of research infrastructure, and procurement of essential research
materials and equipment.


                                                - 41 -

    TARP II had three components namely institutional development, research program and
    resource development and management

    The total project cost amounted to US $ 22.98 million. Out of this the World Bank/IDA
    was to provide US $ 21.75 and Government of Tanzania US $ 1.23 million. Other
    bilateral donors provided parallel financing support to the project. These included The
    Netherlands US $ 3.817 million for Lake and Northern zones; Norwegian Government
    (through NORAD) that provided a grant amounting to US $ 5.298 million to TARP
    II-SUA and Ireland Government (through Irish Aid) -committed a total of Euro 2.3
    million to support Eastern Zone Client Oriented Research and Extension Program
    (EZCORE).

3.  Major Achievements:

3.1 Institutional Development

    Under this component the focus was on redefining the roles of the Department of
    Research and Development, establishing zonal research committees, zonal empowerment,
    right sizing of the research establishment and supporting initiatives for privatizing research
    particularly on industrial commodities such as tea, coffee, sugar cane etc.

    The seven Zonal Research Centers, which were set up during NALRP, continued to enjoy
    semi-autonomy status in day-to-day operations. The local stakeholders in the zones
    determined the research priorities of the zone. DRD and DLRT at headquarters level
    provided guidance and technical backstopping and disbursed funds regularly according to
    the zonal needs, priorities and governing policy.
    In order to enhance zonal effectiveness zonal research committees were established and
    empowered. These are Zonal Internal Program Reviews (IPRs), Zonal Technical
    Committees (ZTCs), and Zonal Executive Committees (ZECs).

    DRD/DLRT continued to benefit from a wide range networks and collaborative
    partnerships with various International and Regional Agricultural Research Centers and
    Organizations. These include ASARECA, SACCAR, CIMMYT, ICRISAT, IFPRI,
    ISNAR, and others. There were also collaborative activities with local institutions of
    higher learning, notably SUA and UDSM. The mainstreaming of SUA into NARS has
    been rated as very successful.

    Following the decentralization of extension services to the Local Government Authorities
    (LGAs) (district and municipal councils), the close link that existed between research and
    extension was somehow disrupted. In order to restore this linkage the Zonal Research
    Centers signed memorandum of understanding (MoUs) with the LGAs in the respective
    zones. To-date, all 120 LGAs have signed the MoUs. To further strengthen linkage
    between research centers and all stakeholders in the zone, the creation of liaison offices
    and appointment of Zonal Research and Extension Liaison Officers (ZRELOs) has greatly



                                            - 42 -

    improved the situation.

    The annual participation of the DRD/DLRT and the zonal centers in the National and
    Zonal Agricultural Shows( Nane Nane), field days, quarterly training workshops, farmer
    filed visits, etc, has enhanced linkage and dissemination of research findings.

    TARP II implementation also involved promoting private sector participation in funding
    and managing agricultural research particularly industrial commodities such as tea, coffee,
    tobacco, cotton, cashew, pyrethrum, sisal, sugarcane and barley. Modalities were
    developed whereby, the private sector (particularly the commodity boards) were to
    provide operational funds for actual research including payment of work related
    allowances to supplement the staff salaries. Research on cashew, sugarcane, cotton and
    pyrethrum is currently operating in this mode.

    Research on tea, coffee and tobacco was fully privatized between 1998 and 2001. A
    comprehensive review of the experience with privatization of research on tea, coffee and
    tobacco has been done. The Tea Research Institute of Tanzania (TRIT) and Tanzania
    Coffee Research Institute (TaCRI) have established themselves as viable and effective
    institutions. The Tobacco Research Institute of Tanzania (TORITA) is still evolving and
    needs further review and facilitation (refer separate review report).

3.2 Research Programs

    This component focused on provision of incremental operating costs for priority research
    programs in the DRD/DLRT research network as well research infrastructure at Sokoine
    University of Agriculture (SUA) and supporting its research programs. In addition, this
    component supported the establishment of Zonal Agricultural Research Funds (ZARFs)
    and also facilitated breeder seed production.

    The key performance indicators which were revised during MTR and emphasized on
    increasing yields of crops and livestock products, and enhancing research ­ extension ­
    farmer linkages, among others 37 new improved crop varieties were released against the
    target of 15. The results from time series data survey for 1998, 2000, and 2003 indicated
    that the proportion of farmers who used improved varieties has been increasing over time.
    For example farmers who used improved maize varieties in 1998 were 25 percent and
    increased to 38 % and 56% in 2000 and 2003 respectively.

    On the other hand, ten improved innovations on livestock production were developed and
    disseminated by the end of 2003(the target five innovations) resulting in substantial
    improvement in livestock yields.

    In the Central Zone milk for instance, production has increased from 2 to 5 liters per day
    per cow following the multiplication and introduction of the Mpwapwa breed. In both
    Central and Northern zones, cross breeding of Mpwapwa bulls with indigenous TSZ has
    increased body weight gains from16 to 30 kg.



                                             - 43 -

Achievements on control of livestock diseases have been recorded and include a reduction
of chicken mortality rates by more than 70 % through the use of the Australian
thermostable vaccine (I-2) to control Newcastle Disease. The cost of accaricide use has
been reduced by 50 to 70 % following applications of East Coast Fever vaccine. Mass
production of sterile male tsetse flies continued for wider usage at prone areas of Mafia
Island and Kiteto District in the Northern Zone.

Furthermore, TARP II supported research interventions on soil fertility improvement
through the use of organic farming through application of improved land husbandry
practices such as leguminous cover crops, tie-ridging, contour farming and minimum
tillage. Some of the achievements after the above interventions include the yield increases
of cotton, maize and rice to about 20 - 60% in a wide range of environments.
Consequently, farmers' demand for industrially manufactured inputs (fertilizers and
chemicals) has been reduced by at least 10 to15 percent.

Several trees and shrub species (i.e. sesbania sesban, Gliricidia sepium, Tephrosia
vogelii, Lablab purpuriens, clitoria ternatea) which are N ­ fixing have been
recommended and have reached over 3000 farmers in the Western Zone. Three early
maturing trees (i.e. Acacia leptocarpa, Acacia julifera and Acacia crassicarp) have also
been recommended. These species take about 5 years to mature compared to indigenous
ones that take over 30 years. Application of 5t/ha mulch from legume species (e.g.
Leucaena ) increased maize yields from 0.5t/ha to 3t/ha.

TARP II also supported the identification, propagation, and promotion of processing of
indigenous tree fruits in the Western Zone. Some of the suitable species identified are
Vitex mombassae ("Ntalali") Strychnos caculoides ("Ntonga"), Parinary curastellifolia
("Mbula"), Flacourtia India ("Mbuguswa") and Vitex doniana ("Mfuru"). Products
made include jams, juice and wine. Over 1000 farmers have adopted processing
technology and sale of processed products has significantly increased the household
income, especially among women.

Labour saving technologies in land tillage and soil conservation were also introduced to
farmers, in the Southern Highlands and Lake Zones. The technologies introduced included
ox-drawn weeders, ridgers, ripper tines, sub-soilers, carts and rice peddlers. Labour input
using improved implements has been reduced by 178% (i.e. from 21.65 hrs/ha using
conventional mould-board plough to 7.80 hrs/ha using conservation tillage implement). In
addition, the implement have enabled farmers to increase area under cultivation and crop
productivity due to carrying out farm operations in time and efficiently. Other equipments
evaluated and fabricated include cassava graters and sweet potato chippers that have
significantly reduced the labor requirement by 200% in post harvest processing. Such
devices have also improved the quality of the products.

The Client Oriented Research Management Approach (CORMA) was piloted in the
Northern and Lake Zone since 1998 with the financial support from the Netherlands



                                        - 44 -

    Government encourages demand-driven research, represents important complementary
    moves towards decentralization and involvement of private sector in research and
    promotes inter-agency and inter-disciplinary research teams. Emphasis has been in the
    areas of human resources management, financial, linkage and collaboration, research and
    quality output production. It was during the subsequent external review of the
    performance of CORMA conducted in mid 2003, it was recommended to spread the
    approach in other zones and also reconstitute and rename it the Client Oriented Research
    and Development Management Approach (CORDEMA) to cover also development issues
    during the up scaling process.

3.3 Resource Development and Management:

    This component focused on:
    (i) Strengthening human resource development; (ii) providing assistance to SUA for
    carrying out approved training programs; (iii) consulting services and short-term technical
    assistance; (iv) selective rehabilitation of research stations, equipment and infrastructure;
    and     (v) strengthening financial management and accounting, information and
    communication services, documentation and library services, and research monitoring and
    evaluation.

    The scope of work for the research station rehabilitation program was to cover the
    rehabilitation of residential houses, laboratories, offices, and access roads. The irrigation
    works aimed at ensuring the continuity of research activities even during dry season and
    hence shortening the duration of the research period.

    Irrigation works at Uyole has been completed, while at Mpwapwa and Ilonga are over
    90% completed. Whereas the irrigation works for Naliendele and Tumbi did not start due
    to tedious tendering procedures and none responsiveness of bidders; irrigation systems at
    Ukiriguru collapsed due to poor design and subsequently the contract was suspended in
    early 2004.

    Procurement under TARP II focused on replacement of items supplied in the in mid-
    1990s (vehicles, tractors, computers and furniture) as well as consumables such as
    laboratory reagents and spares for vehicles and farm equipment. The project procured
    almost all (95%) the planned items. The procurement of laboratory equipment and
    selected chemicals was shelved due to delayed delivery prior to project closure at the end
    of June 2004.

    Forty-eight research scientists were enrolled for postgraduate studies at M Sc and Ph D
    degree levels. Out of the planned 27 MSc levels, 25 staff successfully completed their MSc
    degree courses and returned to their respective work stations. One MSc candidate died
    and the other did not succeed because of ill-health. Of the planned 21 doctorate degrees,
    three have successfully completed their courses and returned to respective workplaces.
    The remaining PhD students are expected to finish during 2004/2005.




                                             - 45 -

      A total of 943 staff against the planned 297 attended short courses in various fields and
      disciplines. The number of staff trained exceeded the target because DRD received
      assistance from DFID - East Africa Natural Resources in order to train staff on research
      management skills. Before 1997, FSA training was offered specifically to researchers in
      zonal FSR teams. During TARP II, the goal was to train all researchers in the DRD/DLRT
      network. A total of 372 researchers (268 male and 104 female) acquired FSA skills
      between 1997/98 and 2003/04.

      A total of 56 research scientists and 51 technicians were awarded cash prizes totaling US
      $ 17,894.8 due to outstanding performance in their fields. Some of the problems
      encountered during TARP II implementation included the continuing erosion of the human
      resource base in search of greener pastures as well as deaths.

  Other bilateral donors provided parallel support to TARP II. These included Government of
  Netherlands (GoN) for the Lake and Northern zones, Norwegian Government (NORAD) for
  TARP II-SUA and Government of Ireland for EZCORE in the Eastern Zone. The
  DRD/DLRT started several initiatives to develop extra-budgetary sources to cover non-salary
  recurrent expenses related to agricultural research. The establishment of Zonal Agricultural
  Research Fund (ZARFs) was one of the efforts to ensure research-funding sustainability. The
  World Bank/IDA through TARP II provided matching funds to already contributed local
  stakeholder funds. This has integrated aspects of systems perspective in all research projects.

  The establishment of the Agricultural Research Fund (ARF) in Tanzania was an attempt to
  ameliorate the problem of insufficient funds for research. Initially ARF was expected to
  provide a transparent financing mechanism for the DRD to support and facilitate
  collaborative, contract and research grants for agricultural and livestock priority research
  programs.

4.    Impact and Sustainability of TARP II interventions

      During TARP II implementation period, enormous improvements in research approaches
      and application of innovative methodologies have been realized. Farmers were effectively
      involved in the process of Technology development and Transfer (TDT). The results of
      time series studies conducted in 1998, 2000 and 2003 revealed that about 21%, 35% and
      51% of farmers respectively were involved in the TDT process. A good number of gender
      balanced farmers groups participated on the assessment of proven research technologies.
      Despite of unfavorable weather condition during the project period, farmers who
      collaborated with researchers have substantially increased the yields of their crops

      The establishment of semi-autonomous zonal research committees (IPRs, ZTCs and
      ZECs), whereby zonal stakeholders are empowered to determine and influence research
      agenda and budget in their respective zones, has enhanced the move to strengthen client
      oriented and demand-driven research and development agenda. In addition, the
      appointment of Zonal Research and Extension Liaison Officers (ZRELOs) has helped to
      strengthen research, extension and farmer linkages.



                                              - 46 -

       The establishment of ZARFs has proved to be very instrumental in the quest to promote
       sustainable research funding mechanisms. Such initiatives have created awareness, such
       that some LGAs and the private sector have come to appreciate the need to contribute to
       research funding. This has enhanced partnership and cost sharing in research endeavors.

       The use of Farmer Research Groups (FRGs) in the implementation of on-farm research
       has greatly improved research-extension-farmer linkages and research cost sharing. Most
       research scientists have been exposed to participatory research methodologies

       Due to acute shortage of quality seeds in the country research centers were involved since
       2001 in the multiplication and distribution of good quality seed to farmers particularly
       maize, sorghum and millet, paddy, and some vegetable seeds. In 2003 alone Uyole
       produced some 162 tons and Seliani 220 tons of quality maize seed. Dakawa and Katrin
       Ifakara produced a total of 140 tons of rice seed during the same period.

Privatization of research on industrial commodities such as coffee, tea and tobacco has relieved
the Government on the burden of funding the broad research spectrum. Treasury funds are
increasingly used to cover research on food crops, livestock production and natural resources
management aspects.




                                              - 47 -

- 48 -

