Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3036-TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Tanzania Agricultural Research Project - Phase II)
between
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  March 31, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3036-TA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 1998, between THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
The Association has received a letter of Sub-sectoral Policy on 
Agricultural Research dated October 16, 1997, from the Borrower describing a program 
of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve its agricultural research (the 
Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C)
Part D of the Project will be carried out by Sokoine University of 
Agriculture (SUA) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to the SUA part of the proceeds of the Credit as a grant 
as provided in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Credit shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Beneficiary" means an individual or a group of farmers or scientists who 
had received or applied to receive a Research Grant (as hereinafter defined) under 
Part B.2 of the Project for the purpose of carrying out an agriculture research 
activity; and 
(b)
“Beneficiaries” means, collectively, two or more such individuals or 
groups; 
(c)
"Charter" means the Sokoine University of Agriculture Act, No. 6 of 1984, 
as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(d)
"DRT" means the Department of Research and Training in the Borrower's 
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives; 
Page  3
(e)
“Guidelines” means the guidelines establishing rules, procedures and 
eligibility criteria for awarding Research Grants (as hereinafter defined) under Part 
B.3 of the Project; 
(f)
"MOAC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives;
(g)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan to be prepared by the 
Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this agreement for the implementation of the 
Project as such plan may be amended or modified from time to time by agreement between 
the Borrower and the Association; 
(h)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter dated October 20, 
1997, and countersigned on November 3, 1997; 
(i)
"Research Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between 
MOAC and a Beneficiary for the purpose of carrying out a research activity under Part 
B.3 of the Project; 
(j)
"Research Grant" means a research grant provided or to be provided under 
Part B.3 of the Project; 
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(l)
"SUA" means Sokoine University of Agriculture, established pursuant to 
its Charter; 
(m)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and SUA pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement and Subsidiary Grant means the grant to be made under the Subsidiary 
Agreement;
(n)
"Tanzania Shilling" and "Tsh" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(o)
"ZARF" means Zonal Agricultural Research Fund, one of the funds to be 
established under Part B.2 of the Project to finance agricultural research; and 
"ZARFs" means, collectively all such funds; and 
(p)
"ZRC" means Zonal Research Center, each of the seven research centers 
operated by DRT and located at Ukiriguru, Tumbi, Selian, Ilonga, Mpwapwa, Naliendele 
and Uyole, respectively.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 15,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
Page  4
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2008 and ending November 1, 2037.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2017, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
Page  5
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end:
 (i) 
shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project through MOAC, with 
due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, 
environmental, and agricultural practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the 
Project; and 
(ii)
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under 
this Agreement, shall cause SUA to carry out Part D 
of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, 
environmental, agricultural and 
educational practices, and shall take or cause 
to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable SUA to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts A, B and C of the Project and cause SUA to carry out Part D of 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
(c)
The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit, not exceeding 
such amount as may be allocated from time to time to Categories (2) (b) and (5) (b) in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, available to SUA as a grant 
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and SUA, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
Page  6
(a)
not later than June 30, 1999, establish a ZARF in the three designated 
pilot agricultural research zones (Ilonga, Naliendele and Selian), under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association and deposit into each ZARF an amount not 
exceeding $200,000 out of proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (4) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(b)
use the funds in the ZARFs exclusively for making Research Grants to 
Beneficiaries who meet the criteria specified in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement under the terms and conditions and following the procedures set forth in the 
Guidelines. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A, B and C of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account for Parts A, B and C of the Project were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause SUA to maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of SUA.
Page  7
(b)
The Borrower shall cause SUA to: 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account for Part D of the Project were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall cause SUA to: 
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition 
of SUA or its ability to carry out the Project; 
(b)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of SUA or for the suspension of its 
operations; 
(c)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and 
(d)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that SUA will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement. 
Page  8
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any of the events specified in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
SUA; 
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Plan and the 
Guidelines satisfactory to the Association; and 
(c)
the Borrower has established an executive committee for each ZRC, each 
having composition and terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address: 
Telex:
TREASURY
41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Page  9
By /s/ Mustafa Nyang'anyi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   1,450,000
90%
(2)
Equipment, vehicles
100% of foreign
furniture and
expenditures and
materials:
90% of local
expenditures
(a) under Parts A, B
   2,460,000
and C of the Project
(b) under Part D of
     150,000
the Project
(3)
Consultants' services
   3,990,000
100%
and training under
Parts A, B and C of
the Project
(4)
Research Grants
   1,020,000
50%
under Part B.2
of the Project
(5)
Incremental operating
costs
(a) under Parts A, B
   4,440,000
100% until with-
and C of the Project
drawals under this
Category have reached
an aggregate amount
equivalent to
SDR 2,900,000; there-
after, 90%
(b) under Part D of
     210,000
100%
the Project
(6)
Refunding of Project
     730,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
   1,450,000
TOTAL
  15,900,000
Page  10
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding 
salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (4) unless the 
Research Grant has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent; (b) works under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (c) 
services with consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (d) 
services of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; 
(e) operating costs; (f) local training; and (g) foreign training not to exceed 
$10,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase efficiency and productivity 
of crop and livestock production, with sustainable use of natural resources and 
particular focus on the needs of the smallholder sector through the generation and 
dissemination of new agricultural technologies; (b) support the institutional 
development of the national agricultural research system and the decentralization to 
the ZRCs of financial resource management, operational decision-making and the 
formulation of research agendas; (c) support privatization of agricultural research 
where appropriate; and (d) encourage client-oriented adaptive research including 
strengthening linkages between farmers, extension agents, and agricultural 
researchers.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development 
1.
Streamlining the organizational structure of DRT with a view to increasing 
participation by farmers, marketing experts, agricultural suppliers, members of the 
food processing industry, extension agents, research scientists and other people 
affected by agricultural research in the decision making process of DRT and the ZRCs. 
2.
Strengthening of DRT's administrative, financial management and accounting 
system to ensure efficient and timely allocation and utilization of resources, through 
a restructuring of the finance and accounting functions and decentralization of key 
financial responsibilities to the ZRCs. 
3.
Carrying out of an expanded skills upgrading program for DRT staff in 
management, technical and administrative skills and carrying out a phased program of 
redeployment of professional staff and the reduction of non-essential staff. 
4.
Improving DRT’s capacity to monitor and evaluate donor support in agricultural 
research through the provision of technical advisory services and training and 
Page  11
equipment.
Part B:
Research Programs 
1.
Carrying out of priority nationally coordinated research programs in foodcrops, 
livestock, soil conservation and agro-forestry. 
2.
Establishment of Zonal Agricultural Research Funds in up to seven pilot zones 
and support for the National Agricultural Research Fund. 
3.
Provision of Research Grants to Beneficiaries for the purpose of financing 
research activities. 
4.
Improving the ZRCs's capacity to provide breeder and foundation seeds to private 
sector seed companies and farmer seed producers through the establishment of 
foundation seed units, including construction of seed processing facilities and 
acquisition of field equipment and vehicles at selected research centers.
Part C:
Resource Development and Management 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of DRT to coordinate agricultural research through 
the provision of staff training, technical advisory services, vehicles and computer 
and other office equipment. 
2.
Rehabilitation of selected research stations and of DRT headquarters facilities 
and acquisition of research equipment for use in headquarters building.
Part D:
Sokoine University of Agriculture 
1.
Strengthening the capacity of SUA to identify priority constraints of dominant 
crop/livestock/agroforestry production systems and to design adaptive research 
programs in research stations and farmers’ fields to produce appropriate technologies 
which are biologically stable, economically viable and benign to the environment, 
through the provision of technical advisory services and equipment, materials and 
vehicles. 
2.
Strengthening the capacity of SUA to carry out agricultural training programs 
through the provision of training, equipment, materials and technical advisory 
services.
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works and goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works and goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
Page  12
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,300,000 equivalent and goods estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$450,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. \0c
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $260,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's 
prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the Guidelines: "Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultants' Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Page  13
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultants' Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultants' Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultants' Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with 
the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultants' Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services estimated to cost $100,000 or less shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultants' Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants' Guidelines.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as 
shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultants' Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants' Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Page  14
1.
The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project, the Project 
Steering Committee chaired by the Principal Secretary MOAC, and composed of the 
Commissioner for Research and Training, heads of MOAC departments, Assistant 
Commissioners responsible for research on crops, livestock and factor programs, Zonal 
Directors for Research and Training and the Director of Research and Postgraduate 
studies at SUA. The Project Steering Committee shall give directions on policy and 
operational issues, approve the annual workplan and budget, and review implementation 
progress. 
2.
The Commissioner for Research and Training, DRT shall be responsible for the 
overall implementation of the Project, assisted by a deputy, a planning and monitoring 
officer, a procurement specialist and a project accountant. 
3.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain in each zone, a zonal executive 
committee to approve the zonal annual work plan and budget, and to provide oversight 
of program implementation within the zone.
4.
The Director of Research and Postgraduate Studies of SUA shall be responsible 
for planning and implementation of Part D of the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 30, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
5.
(a)
DRT shall be responsible for the establishment and administration of the 
ZARFs under Part B.2 of the Project in accordance with the Guidelines, including the 
following provisions: 
(i)
DRT shall have overall responsibility for the administration and 
control of 
the ZARFs and for the approval and disbursement of Research 
Grants to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
to Category (4) of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(ii)
a matching contribution to each Research Grant from the Borrower 
or other 
source of funding;
(iii)
the eligibility criteria for Research Grants to be financed 
through the NARF 
and the ZARFs, shall include the following: (A)
the research proposals shall 
be relevant to priority agricultural 
policy issues, (B) the research proposal 
shall focus on farmers 
especially smallholder male and female farmers, (C)
the 
research 
proposal shall take note of the farming systems approach, (D) the 
research proposal shall fall into the category of applied/adaptive research, 
(E) all alternative avenues for financing the proposed research shall have 
been exhausted, including the private sector, (F) the objectives 
of the 
proposed research shall be sufficiently well defined 
to ensure an outcome that 
will directly contribute to the development of 
Page  15
viable technologies for 
adoption by farmers and thus to the 
development of food security and 
sustainable growth, (G) the 
proposed research shall not have been undertaken 
elsewhere, or if it 
has, the results achieved in the previous research cannot 
be adapted 
for use in Tanzania without the research described in the research 
proposal, (H) the anticipated results of the proposed research shall have 
broad applicability with significant potential economic benefits to the 
agricultural sector, (I) the anticipated results of the proposed 
research 
shall have significant financial benefits for end 
users, (J) the research 
proposal shall include adequate 
provision to allow the anticipated results to 
be properly evaluated for 
their environmental impact and (K)
the research 
proposal 
shall clearly indicate how the technology to be explored or developed 
will be disseminated to end users; 
(iv)
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, each Research Grant 
(A) for the 
ZARFs shall not exceed $30,000 equivalent, and (B) for the 
National 
Agricultural Research Fund research activities 
shall not exceed $100,000 
equivalent; and 
(v)
MOAC shall enter into a Research Grant Agreement with each 
Beneficiary under 
terms and conditions, satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall include the 
obligation of the Beneficiary to 
(A) carry out the research activity approved 
by DRT, (B) periodically 
report to DRT on the progress made in carrying out 
the research, and 
(C) procure the goods and services to be financed under a 
Research 
Grant in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association as 
specified in the Research Grant Agreement and which shall be consistent with 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, equivalent to $750,000; provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $375,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for the Project 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
Page  16
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
eligible Categories, and in the equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to 
the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof 
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower 
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  17
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
