Export Finance Facilitation Project
E578
Environmental Manual
to guide Yugoslav Export Credit Agency in conducting the
environmental screening and review of the enterprise applying for
YECA's facilities
Prepared by
Dr Radoje Lausevic
Belgrade, March 2002       L am
FILE Copy












Content
I   Introduction  ................................                                       5
1.1.   The list of terms and definitions ............................ , . ,    .     5
2.   Environmental appraisal ofprojects ..................................... . . .     7
2.1.   Categories of Environmental Impact ..........................................7
2.1.1.   Category C (Minimum environmental impact) ............................................ 7
2.1.2.   Category B (Interim risk) ............................................8
2.1.3.   Category A (High risk) ............................................8
2.1.4.   Category X (Banned) .............................                         10
2.2.   Public Participation ..............................                           10
2.3.   Environmental Impact Assessment           ..                 ........................... 10
2.4.   Environmental Permits for Import/Export of Gcods .     ............................................... 12
2.4.1.   Import / export of hazardous wastes and thteir disposal ................................... 13
2.4.2.   International trade of endangered species of wild flora and fauna .................. 14
3.   Environmental Appraisal Form .      .      ................................................................  15
4.   Legal, regulatory and institutional framework review for environmental assessment in
Yugoslavia ..................................................................          27
4.1.   Legal framework ..................................................................  27
4.1.1.   Federal level ..............................                             27
4.1.2.   Republic of Serbia ............................. .                       27
4.1.3.   Republic of Montenegro            ............................. 27
4.1.4.   All levels ..............................                                27
4.2.   Institutional framework ............................. ..                     28
4.2.1.   Federation ..............................                                28
4.2.2.   Republic of Serbia           ............................. 29
4.2.3.   Republic of Montenegro            ............................. 29
4.3.   Environmental Impact Assessment              .       .       ........................... 30
4.3.1.   Environmental Assessment Law and ReguLlations .       .......................................... 30
4.3.1.1.    Republic of Serbia              .       .        .................................. 30
4.3.1.2.    Republic of M ontenegro .............................................................  34
4.3.2.   Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context        .  .   34
4.3.3.   Operating permits .............................................................  35
4.3.4.   Regulations Governing Environmental Audits and Pollution Control in
Existing Enterprises ............................................................  37
4.4.   Regulations governing import / export of goods .   ..................................................... 38
4.4.1.    Import / export of hazardous wastes and their disposal       .    .      38
4.4.1.1.    Federal Level ............................................................  38
4.4.1.1.1.  Issuing license ............................................................ 39
4.4.2.   Import / export of substances that deplete the ozone layer     .    .     39
4.4.3.   Ionizing Radiation and Nuclear Safety ............................................................ 40
4.4.3.1.    Federal Level ............................................................  40
4.4.3.2.    Republic level ............................................................  41
4.4.4.    Other FRY regulations for import of hazardous substances ............................ 41
4.4.4.1.    Republic of Serbia              .       .        .................................. 41
4.4.4.2.    Republic of M ontenegro .............................................................  42
4.4.5.   International trade of endangered species of wild flora and fauna  ..    42
4.4.5.1.    Federal Level ............................................................  43
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL                         3 OF 55



Content
4.4.5.1.1. Import, export and transit of endangered and protected species of wild
flora and fauna, and their developmental stages and parts ....................................... 43
4.4.5.1.1.1.   Issuing license .......................   ...................................... 43
4.4.5.1.1.2.   Other FRY regulations for export of protected mobile natural assets
43
4.4.5.1.1.2.1.   The phyto-sanitary control ...................................................... 44
4.4.5.1.1.2.2.   The veterinary sanitation control ............................................. 44
4.4.5.1.1.2.3.   Customs control .............................................................   44
4.4.5.1.2.   Import, export and transit of genetic: resources of wild flora and fauna,
biotechnologies or genetically modified organisms .          .   ............................................... 44
4.4.5.1.2.1.   Issuing license .......................   ...................................... 44
4.4.5.2.      Republic of Serbia .        .       ...........................................................  44
4.4.5.2.1.   Protection and conservation of species of wild flora and fauna ......... 44
4.4.5.2.1.1.   Issuing license .......................   ...................................... 45
4.4.5.2.2.   Other Serbian regulations for usage and trade of the natural assets ...... 45
4.4.5.3.      Republic of Montenegro ..............................................................  46
5.   Annexes ..............................................................                          47
4 OF 55                        ExPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Introduction
1. Introduction
The Government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has received a Trust Fund Grant from
the state of Japan for preparation of the Export Finance Facilitation Project. The objective of
the project is to support establishment of the Yugoslav Export Credit Agency (YECA) as a
permanent institution to implement a wide range of facilities aimed at supporting the import
of essential goods and services and the export of goods and services produced or
manufactured in Yugoslavia.
Facilities supporting imports comprise:
? a political risk insurance facility supporting trade exposure of foreign entities in
Yugoslavia, and
? limited comprehensive import credit insurance.
Export support facilities comprise:
? working capital loans and guarantees
? export credit insurance, and
? exporter performance insurance.
This Manual was developed in order to ensure that no working capital loans/guarantees,
contract bonds or credit insurance would be available to support environmentally harrnful
activities. The Manual follows current Yugoslav (Serbian. and Montenegrian) environmental
procedures, rules and regulations (for the legal framework, see Chapter 4), as well as the
World Bank policy and procedures on environmental assessment, Based on the working
directive 4.01.
1.1.     The list of terms and definitionis
This Manual accepts terms and definitions adopted by Law On Basis of Environmental
Protection (FRY Official Register No 24, May 15, 1998).
Environment         Natural resources and man created resources, and also the totality
of living space that man occupies;
Natural resources   Natural assets, such as: air, water, sea, land, forests and bio-
diversity;
Man created         The totality of assets created by man's labor;
resources
Environment         A number of measures preventing environment endangerment,
protection          providing preservation of natural harmony and rational
management and improvement of natural and man created
resources;
Environment         Pollutant release in environment, caused either by the activity of
pollution           man or as a result of natural processes producing damaging
consequences on the state of environment;
Polluter             Individuals or legal persons releasing pollutants in environment as
the result of their activity, and thereby disturbing natural harmony
between living and non- living wvorld, and also disturbing natural
processes;
Pollutants           Substances which once released in environment disturb its natural
contents, characteristics or integrity;
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL               5 OF 55



Introduction
Emission             Pollutant release in environment;
Emission sources     Objects and activities producing pollutant release in environment;
Immission            Concentration of pollutants in environment presenting the quality
of environment;
Environment          Evaluation of possible impact of suggested activity on
impact analysis      environment;
Activities           Actions or undertakings able to produce temporary or permanent
environment degradation, such as: space utilization, object
construction or reconstruction, technology introduction and
application, natural resources' exploitation etc.
Bio-diversity        Diversity of organisms in range of a specie, between species
themselves and between eco-systems, encompassing the totality of
genes, species and eco-systems on regional and global level;
Biological resources  Genetic resources, organisms and their parts, populations or other
eco-system biotic components with actual or potential purpose or
application for man;
Bio-technology       Technological application of living organisms' biological systems
or their derivatives, in order to obtain product or process for
specific purposes, relevant for genetic resources management and
environment protection;
Genetic resources    Substances of plant, animal, microbiological or other origin,
containing functional hereditary units;
Protected natural    Preserved parts of environment with significant natural worth and
resources            characteristics, displaying their permanent ecological, cultural,
educational, health and recreational, touristical and other
significances, enjoying special protection as common goods due to
all stated reasons;
Waste                Substances or objects in hard, liquid or gaseous state, emerging in
the production or utilization processes, not being the primary
purpose of the process result;
Secondary            Materials which can be reused, or, in other words, materials
substances           already used in the production process;
Accident             Sudden and uncontrollable event or chain of events, resulting from
uncontrolled release, outflow or discharge of dangerous
substances, in the course of their production, utilization,
transportation, storage, trade, disposal or long-term accumulation,
that is, release of genetically modified organisms in environment;
Protection from      Includes: accident probability estimation, response measures in the
accident             case of accident and means for environment regeneration from
possible accident consequences;
Integral registry of  Registry of all sorts of environnment polluters, with information on
polluters           their location, processes, production input and output, waste
material flows (liquid and gasecus waste, hard waste), distilling
plants and their pollutants' evacuation locations.
6 OF 55                 EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Environmental Appraisal
2. Environmental appraisal of projects
Proper environmental security is mainly based on timely identification and assessment of
potential environmental impact of planned activity, as well as proper measures undertaken in
order to prevent, minimize and smooth negative conseqtunces of planned activity. Therefore,
YECA, participating in the World Bank credit line, will have to check the projects of the
planned activities with regards to potential risk to environment. Besides, those projects that
under the legislation of FR Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) require environmental
impact assessment or import / export approval from the environmental authorities, will have
to fully satisfy the requirements of ensuring environmental security prior to the final
procedure of credit allowance.
YECA will review the applications for credits and check them with respect to their
responsiveness to the World Bank and Yugoslav (Serbia and Montenegro) environmental
criteria, following procedures described in this Manual.
This part of the Manual provides a guide for environme nial appraisal of the project as a first
step in the procedure of proper environmental security.
2.1.     Categories of Environmental hnpact
Depending on the potentional environmental impact of proposed activity each project should
be assigned to one of four categories of environmental impact. Categories of impact and types
of activity included in them are listed in the following paragraphs.
2.1.1.Category C (Minimum environmental impact)
This category includes the projects that usually cause minimum environmental impact.
Approval of such types of activity usually does not require preparation of nature conservation
documents by the developer (anticipated borrower). Hovwever, according Yugoslav (Serbia
and Montenegro) regulations such projects should also pass screening which gives the
answers:
? does facility / work fall into category of facilities / works that must have approved
environmental impact assessment (EIA) (for screening see chapter 2.3, for full
procedure see chapter 4.3), or,
? in cases of import / export activities, does activity fall into category that must have one
of environmental permits for trade (for screening see chapter 2.4, for the full
procedure see chapter 4.4).
Examples of these category projects:
1. Opening and equipping the art, design and telecommunication facilities;
2. Recreational facilities (except for construction);
3. Small-scaled renewal of communications;
4. Health care and family planning (except construction of hospitals);
5. Storage and archiving of materials and documents;
6. Management development and technical assistance;
7. Minor replacements of tools and equipment;
8. Software development and production;
9. Hardware acquisition;
10. Radio and TV programs (television, radio, satellite programs);
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL                7 OF 55



Environmental Appraisal
11. Opening restaurants and other public catering facilities;
12. Acquisition of sports equipment and opening of sports structures;
13. Educating and training (with an exception for construction of schools).
2.1.2.Category B (Interim risk)
This category includes the projects causing considerable or medium environmental impact
that can be identified and quantitatively determnined. Proper environmental security with
regard to such projects stipulates for an anticipated loaner to go through all the necessary
consultations and obtain all required permits, namely:
? environmental impact assessment (EIA) (for screening see chapter 2.3, for full
procedure see chapter 4.3), or,
? in cases of import / export activities, an environmental permit for trade (for screening
see chapter 2.4, for the full procedure see chapter 4.4).
In adition, there is a need to integrate public consultations into the process.
Examples of these category projects:
1. All undertakings in protected natural areas;
2. Tourist, hotel complexes and hotels;
3. Facilities for treatment of waste waters and disposal of sludge;
4. Disposal sites for waste metal;
5. Facilities for testing engines and motors;
6. Production and packaging of gun powder, explosives and ammunition;
7. Petrol stations, auto tire and mechanic service shops;
8. Cemeteries and crematoria for towns with populat:ion exceeding 5,000.
9. Cattle and poultry farms with capacity exceeding 500 animals;
10. Slaughterhouses with capacity exceeding 50 anirnals;
11. Facilities for production of protein fodder;
12. Production of glues and gelatins;
13. Production of starch, sugar and carbohydrate-based products;
14. Production of chocolate products;
15. Production and processing of oils, fats and waxes of plant and animal origin;
16. Conserving of products of plant and animal origin;
17. Processing milk and production of dairy products;
18. Production of molasses, beer and yeast;
19. Production of wine, alcoholic beverages, fruit juices and vinegar;
20. Resorts, tourist complexes and hotel facilities witlh capacity exceeding 500 users;
21. Sky tracks;
22. Storage and drying facilities exceeding 500 t.
2.1.3.Category A (High risk)
Projects listed in this category due to their scale, complexity and specific features have varied
and significant potential environmental impact. Projects covered by this category are usually
subject to detailed environmental impact assessment (DEIA) in full extent (for screening see
chapter 2.3, for the full procedure see chapter 4.3). In adition, those projects should be sent to
the World Bank for review. Public consultations during the process should be also secured.
Examples of these category projects:
1. Facilities for incineration, chemical treatment or dlisposal of industrial and hazardous
waste;
8 OF 55                 EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Environmental Appraisal
2. Facilities for processing, temporary storage or permanent disposal of radioactive
waste;
3. Regulation of river beds;
4. Transformation of non-utilized to arable land;
5. Large-scaled comassative activities;
6. Highways, speedways and motor roads and other immobile transportation facilities;
7. Railroads and industrial railroads and other immobile transportation facilities;
8. Airports and helicodromes for public air transportation;
9. River docks, channels and transit sites.
10. Cutting woods on larger areas;
11. Hydro- melioration works on larger areas;
12. Major dams and multi- functional accumulations;
13. Facilities for incineration or disposal of solid municipal waste for regional capitals and
towns with population exceeding 10,000;
14. Facilities for waste water treatment with capacity exceeding 20,000 inhabitant
equivalent and facilities for production of biogas;
15. Cemeteries and crematoria for towns with population exceeding 20,000.
16. Oil refineries, facilities of rafination and production of mineral oils, lubricants and
paraphines;
17. Smelters, casting facilities of iron, steel, non- ferrous and precious metals;
18. Processing of steel, non-ferrous and precious metals;
19. Basic chemical industrial facilities;
20. Production of pesticides, paints, lacquers and peroxides;
21. Production of pharmaceutical and cosmetic products;
22. Production of celluloses, paper, cardboard and industrial paper;
23. Cellulose-based production;
24. Processing of wood and wood products;
25. Preparation and processing of non-metal and non-energy mineral raw materials and
production of non-metals;
26. Processing of asbestos and producing asbestos products;
27. Production of raw rubber, rubber and other raw nmbber-based products;
28. Production, processing and dying of textile;
29. Processing leather and producing leather-based products;
30. Production and processing of plastic masses
31. Shipyards;
32. Construction of machines and metal processing industry;
33. Treatment and surface protection of metals;
34. Storage facilitates for chemical and hazardous substances
35. Exploitation of oil and natural gas;
36. Exploitation of coal and bituminous ores;
37. Exploitation of non-metals and metal ores;
38. Drilling for research and exploitation purposes;
39. Utilization of underground water in amount exceeding 10 m3/year;
40. Thermo electric power plant;
41. Hydroelectric power plants exceeding 20 MW;
42. Facilities for gasification and lique faction of coal and bituminous ores;
43. Electric transition facilities, distribution plants and other facilities exceeding 20 KV;
44. Major oil lines, gas lines, product lines and major measuring-regulatory stations;
45. Storage facilities for coal, natural gas, oil and derivatives.
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL                 9 OF 55



Environmental Appraisal
2.1.4.Category X (Banned)
This category comprises projects that due to potential harm to the environment and people's
health can not be approved for financing by the World Bank:
1. Production of tobacco products;
2. Production of lead paints;
3. Sale of live nature and life nature products, banned by CITES Convention on trading
wild fauna and flora species endangered to extinction (Washington, 1973);
4. Introduction of genetically changed organisms;
5. Production, dissemination and sale of illegal pesticides;
6. Usage of floating nets in when fishing;
7. Any activity with the use of radioactive materials;
8. Activity with the use of production and utilization of products containing
chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) and other materials prohibited by Montreal Protocol on
substances exhausting ozone layer (Montreal, 1987);
9. Production of electric products containing polychlorinated phenyls (PCB);
10. Production and processing of asbestos containing products.
2.2.     Public Participation
The main point of departure from Bank policy is the absence of any requirements for public
participation and access to information in the environmental assessment process in current
regulations of FR Yugoslavia. Several activities have recently lonched in order to loby for the
adoption of Aarhus convention (Convertion on Access to Information, Public Participation in
Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters, for details see
http://www.uncce.org/env/pp/acig.htr). Therefore, the Bank policy of integration of public
consultations into procedure of approval projects under categories A and B should be
followed in meantime.
2.3.     Environmental Impact Assessment
In Serbia
According to the Regulations on Environmental Impact Assessment of Facilities and Works -
REIAFW (Official Bulletin of Republic of Serbia, No. 6]L/92) Environmental Impact
Assessment is conducted in two phases:
? Prior Environmental Impact Assessment (PEIA);
? Detailed Environmental Impact Assessment (DEIA).
The first phase, PEIA is conducted using technical and technological documentation for
facility/work in question and is based on the most recent scientific information and available
data.
Following regulations contained in Article 6, REIAFW, PEIA that contains sufficient amount
of information, i.e. if a final decision can be made based on such an assessment DEIA is not
to be conducted. PEIA is not to be conducted for facilities/works listed under following
numbers 1. through 7, 8, 10.
In case of not following pre- investment project, i.e. relevant technical documentation
submitted with the request for issuing construction permit for facility/work in question DEIA
is conducted for the altered section of the project.
IO OF 55               EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Environmental Appraisal
For each change in the space as a result of construction of given facilities or realizing other
works an urban planning permit is required. According to the Law on planning and
disposition of space and settlements the urban planning permit can be granted by the related
Ministry or municipality competent for granting construction permit for the given facilities.
The permit designates the spatial location for construction and determines urban planning,
technical and other conditions for the construction. The permit is granted for the period of up
to five years, without any extension period. The permit becomes ineffective in the period of
three years after granting if the request for granting the construction permit is not submitted.
The construction and utilization permits are granted according to the provisions of the Law
on construction of facilities. If the detailed environmental. impact assessment is needed for
given facilities it is necessary this assessment to become a part of the technical documentation
for the construction of given facilities. The construction may begin upon obtaining the
construction permit.
Construction permits for usually certain smaller facilities are granted by the municipality or
the city of Belgrade.
The facilities may be utilized upon the obtaining of the utilization permit. The utilization
permit is granted by the organ in charge for granting utilization permits.
Utilization permit may not be issued in case of failing to obtain approval for an EIA for the
facility/work in question. In such a case a potential applicant will be directed to competent
authority to obtain approval for designed EIA (competent Ministry in Serbia/Montenegro). If
a facility/work does not require performing EIA, an applicant would be directed to follow the
relevant World Bank procedure.
Water resources permit determines ways and conditions for utilization of waters and water
discharge. The water resources permit is granted by the organ that granted the water resources
compliance (see the details in the water supply section of this analysis). The permit is granted
on a limited period of time, maximum ten years. Approval for utilization of facilities may be
granted upon granting the water resources permit for given facilities.
The Environmental Impact Assessment is prepared following defined procedures, by experts
accredited by the environmental authorities. For example, the Institutes of Public Health
(Belgrade, Novi Sad) play a role in EIA for development projects. The assessment is then
reviewed and eventually accepted by the authorities. There are no provisions for public
participation and access to information in the EIA Act.
During the EIA process and the consequent permitting process, statements and assessments
are prepared by various authorities and expert bodies including e.g. the Serbian Institute for
Nature Protection or inspectorates. These statements or "compliances" are taken into account.
In Montenegro EIA is conducted for all actions that are planned or conducted by legal or
physical individuals, local or foreign that might result in polluting the environment (Article
17, Law on the Environment of Republic of Montenegro, Official Bulletin of Republic of
Montenegro, and No. 12/96).
Prior assessment must be done by the investor prior to undertaking actions from described in
paragraph of this Article (Article 17, Law on the Environment of Republic of Montenegro).
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL               11 OF 55



Environmental Appraisal
2.4.     Environmental Permits for Import/Export of Goods
YECA shall verify that each export contract excludes:
(i)   expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.2 (1986) (the
SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC,
as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower and the agency;
Group     Subgroup       Description of Items
112           -          Alcoholic beverages
121           -          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122           -          Tobacco manufactured (whether or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525           -          Radioactive and associated materials
667           -          Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, unworked or worked
718         718.7        Nuclear reactors, and part thereof; fuel elements (cartridges),
non- irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728        728.43        Tobacco processing machi:nery
897         897.3        Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals (excepts
watches and watch cases) a,nd goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971           -          Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and concentrates)
(ii)  expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary pupose or for
luxury consumption;
(iii)  expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph
the term "environtnentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use
or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
agreements to which the Borrower is a party):
(iv)  expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b)
on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such
payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(v)   expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged iin by representatives of the
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of
such contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
Import / export activites with the above listed goods are not eligible for the finansing. If the
proposed activity does not include listed goods, in further procedure YECA should follow
Yugoslav (Serbia and Montenegro) environmental regulations governing import / export of
goods which are developed in line with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES Convention) and The Basel Convention on the
Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal Concerning
substances that deplete the ozone layer, Federative Republic of Yugoslavia implement The
Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.
12 OF 55               EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Environmental Appraisal
Roles of environmental authorities in licensing and apprcval processes differ at different level
of governance within FR Yugoslavia.
2.4.1.lmport / export of hazardous wastes and their
disposal
The authorized organ for issuing licenses for import, export and transport of wastes is the
Federal Secretariat of Labor, Health and Social Care - Environmental Department.
Transboundary movements of hazardous and other wastes can only be done with the previous
written notification of that state organ and according to the license issued by these organs,
which approves such movements of wastes.
The importer or exporter submits the request for issuing license for import, export and
transport of wastes together with supplementary general and specific documentation.
The Document on movements of wastes is the form that its supplemented to each waste
shipment. The form is issued after the approval of all states included in transboundary
movements of wastes. Each form has its ordinal numeral and the unique ordinal numeral of
the Notification on transboundary movements of wastes.
In order to obtain a license for import, export or transit from the Federal Secretariat, it is
necessary first to obtain a Certificate on characterization of the waste. That Certificate is
issued by the City Public Health Institute in Belgrade, 29. Novembra 54a Street, as authorized
laboratory - authorized organ for characterization of wastes.
The Law on Transport of Hazardous Substances (Official[ Joumal of FR Yugoslavia, no.
27/90 and 45/90) forbids the import of wastes of hazardous substances of foreign origin for
temporary or permanent disposal on the territory of FRY (Article 28). A new obligation for
the holder of the handling right, i.e. owner, to insure the hazardous substance in case of
damage to third parties dur to death, body or health injury, damaged or destroyed property or
pollution of the environment during transport, is introduced (Article 8).
In the Republic of Serbia, this domain is regulated in scope of the Law on Environmental
Protection (Official Journal of Republic of Serbia nos. 66/91, 83/92, 53/93, 67/93, 48/94 and
53/95). The domestic or imported technology cannot be atpplied and products cannot be put on
sale on the territory of the Republic, if they do not fulfill the prescribed norms of
environmental protection, i.e. norms of quality, or if the product is banned in the exporting
country. The Ministry can, in case of doubt, order that a l:echnology or product have to be
examined, although it is provided with a prescribed document related to the harmful effects on
the environment, and in that case it assigns the expert organization (Article 17).
The waste material is collected, classified, prepared for usage as secondary raw material,
processed and temporarily or permanently stored and, if necessary, destroyed, under control
(Article 82, Paragraph 1).
The processing, storage and disposal of radioactive and other wastes that have characteristics
of hazardous substances of foreign origin are banned on the territory of the Republic (Article
82, Paragraph 2).
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL                13 OF 55



Environmental Appraisal
In the Republic of Montenegro, the implementation of the norms of the Basel Convention is
regulated in a similar way. Several regulations are relevant. The Law on Environmental Issues
(Official Journal of Republic of Montenegro, no. 16/96) specifies the ban of application or
usage of technologies, products, semi finished products or raw material forbidden in the
exporting or manufacturing country (Article 9, Paragraph 2). The Law also limits the import
of wastes, except with the permission of the ministry authorized for environmental protection
(Article 10, Paragraph 1).
The Federal Secretariat for Labor, Health and Social Care - Department for Health is
responsible for issuing import / export DI permit for the substances which are harmful for
ozone layer, according official list (Decree on Classification Goods into Types of Export and
Import, Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, nos 25/2001, 27/2001).
2.4.2.lnternational trade of endangered species of wild
flora and fauna
The exporter or importer submits the request for a license for import, export and transit to the
Federal Secretariat for Labor, Health and Social Care - Environmental Sector, with
supplementing documentation, in accordance with the CITES Convention.
The CITES license and certificates are issued as a form prescribed by the CITES Convention.
The license must accompany each shipment.
The exporter or importer of genetic resources of wild flora and fauna, biotechnologies or
genetically modified organisms should submit the request for a license to the Federal Bureau
for Genetic Resources in scope of the Federal Ministry of Economy. When submitting the
request for a license, the applicant supplies the opinion, wvhich states that the environment will
not be endangered.
In the Republic of Serbia the license for collecting, usage and trade of the natural assets, is
issued by the organization for nature protection. The license specifies the quantity that can be
collected, period of the year and area where they can be collected. The company that trades
natural assets is obligated to pay compensation for their usage. The level of compensation is
determined through the act on controlling the usage and trade of natural assets.
The protection of flora and fauna is realized through a permanent ban of usage, i.e. through
the protection of species as natural assets and through the ban of their usage (partial, in a
certain area, of certain size and quantity).
Wild species of flora and fauna protected by the permanent ban of usage, i.e. natural rarities,
cannot be destroyed, disturbed, hunted or tom, regarding both single specimens and their
habitats. These species are protected through a special subordinate legal act, the Decree on
Protection of Natural Rarities of the Republic of Serbia (Official Journal of Republic of
Serbia, nos. 50/93 and 93/93).
The current legislative of the Republic of Montenegro, relevant for the CITES Convention, is
based on the same framework as the legislative of the Republic of Serbia.
14 OF 55               EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Environmental Appraisal Form
3. Environmental Appraisal Form
Table 1. Environmental Appraisal Form
It must be used by a loaner and a creditor-bank for environmental appraisal of the planned
activity
Part A (to be filled in by all of the loaners)
Name of the Project:
Loaner:
Bank:
Contact Person:
Telephone:
Fax:
Branch of industry and main types of services
Check does your activity fall into import / export of goods described in Chapter 2.4.
I es |  | The suggested activity is not eligible for financing by the World Bank
No        Continue with procedure
Classify your activity into one of four categories of environmental impact (see Chapter 2.1)
Cate ory Required action
I      : No further inspections are required. For further steps check Chapters 2.3 and 2.4
Fill in Part B of this Forn and for further steps go through Chapters 2.3 and 2.4
1        Fill in Part B of this Form and for further steps go through Chapters 2.3 and 2.4
4               --The suggested activity is not eligible for financing by the World Bank
Justification of the stated category
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL                15 OF 55



Environmental Appraisal Form
Part B (to be filled in by a loaner for projects of Categories 2 and 3)
Project's brief description:
Location of the project (if yet unknown, please, determine preliminary options for its location,
including the size of the structure or the territory):
Planned productive capacity (main types, quantities), when it is practicable, if compared to
the main specifics of the current production:
Number of employees (at the stage of the full scale of the planned activity operations):
1-50     ?
50-500   ?
>500     ?
The planned activity includes the following changes (fill in all corresponding blocks):
New construction    ?
Reconstruction      ?
Expansion           ?
Changing ownership  ?
Others (specify):   ?
Preceding ecological situation (except for the projects fully including new construction):
Permissions, licenses and other relative documents given by the environment protection
bodies (specify number of the document and date of issuance):
List of available documents characterizing certain mture protection issues at the place of the
project realization:
16 OF 55               EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Environmental Appraisal Form
Important additional comments:
Part C (to be filled in by a creditor-bank)
Main issues identified at the time of ecological inspection:
Were there any potential risks revealed by the bank, for example, considerable additional
expenses that the loaner will have to bear during a short or a long term in the future due to
environmental problems?"
Yes   ?      No    ?
If "Yes", specify potential risks:
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL               17 OF 55



Environmental Appraisal Form
Table 2. Environmental Assessment Check List (To be filled in by creditor-bank)
Environmental assessment
1 Facility/work will be constructed/undertaken on the territory of?
11 Republic of Serbia                                      ao to   2
12 Republic of Mlontenegro                                j go to  4
2 Does facility/work fall into category of facilities/works that must  Yes  No
have an EIA listed in
Checklist EIA No. 1 (Serbia)                               goto          gool 3211
3 Does facility/work fall into the category of facilities/works listed in:  Yes  No
Checklist EIA No. 2 (Serbia)                      -        qo tol 32    Igo tol  3 1
31 PEIA must be undertaken for the facility/work in question.  and go to  311
311 PEIA is sufficient for obtaining further permits and  Yes          No
relevant documentation.                           I go tol 3111  Igo olo 32
3111 Facility/work in question has approved PEIA.   Yes            No
_                                                         I go to 321 1  Igo tol 3212
32 DEIA must be undertaken for the facility/work in question.  and go to  321
321 Facility/work in question has approved DEIA.  |     Yes      |     No
I    I go0tol3211|  Igolo|3212
3211 Operation (s) concerning facilitylwork iin
question may be pursued according to
present legislation.
3212 Operation (s) concerning facility/work iin  Instruct loaner to provide valid
question may not be pursued according to  environmental permit
present legislation.
4 Does facility/work fall into category of facilities/works that rnust  Yes  No
have an EIA listed in
Checklist EIA No. 3                                       | go lol  5    golo 511
5 Facility/work in question needs to have Survey on Environmental and go to  51
Impacts.
51 Facility/work in question has approved Survey on          s            No
Environmental Impacts.                                Igo tol 511           512
511 Operation (s) concerning facility/work in question
may be pursued according to present legislation.
512 Operation (s) concerning facility/work in question Instruct loaner to provide valid
may not be pursued according to present       environmental permit
I_I   I    l_ipnislatinn
18 OF 55                 EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Environmental Appraisal Form
Table 3. Checklist EIA No. 1 (Serbia)
EIA No. 1
1    All types of facilities and works planed to be constructed/ventured in a protected natural area
including protective zones of immobile cultural goods;
2     Industrial zones;
3     Customs zones;
4     New urban zones;
5     Regulation of river beds;
6    Transformation of non-utilized to arable land;
7     Large-scaled comassative activities;
8    Objects of industry and mining;
1    Oil refineries, facilities of rafination and production of mineral oils, lubricants and
paraphines;
2    Smelters, casting facilities of iron, steel, non-ferrous and precious metals;
3    Processing of steel, non-ferrous and precious metals;
4    Basic chemical industrial facilities;
5    Production of pesticides, paints, lacquers and peroxides;
6    Production of pharmaceutical and cosmetic products;
7    Production of cellulose, paper, cardboard and inclustrial paper;
8    Cellulose-based production;
9    Processing of wood and wood products;
10   Preparation and processing of non-metal and non1-energy mineral raw materials and
production of non-metals;
11   Processing of asbestos and producing asbestos products;
12   Production of raw rubber, rubber and other raw rubber-based products;
13   Production, processing and dying of textile;
14   Processing leather and producing leather-based products;
15   Production of glues and gelatins;
16   Production and processing of plastic masses
17   Shipyards;
18   Construction of machines and metal processing industry;
19   Treatment and surface protection of metals;
20   Weaponry production;
21   Storage facilities for chemical and hazardous substances
22   Production of starch, sugar and carbohydrate-based products;
23   Production of chocolate products;
24   Production and processing of oils, fats and waxes of plant and animal origin;
25   Conserving of products of plant and animal origin;
26   Processing milk and production of dairy products;
27   Production of molasses, beer and yeast;
28   Production of wine, alcoholic beverages, fruit juices and vinegar;
29   Exploitation of oil and natural gas;
30   Exploitation of coal and bituminous ores;
31   Exploitation of non-metals and metal ores;
32   Drilling for research and exploitation purposes;
33   Utilization of underground water in amount exceeding 10 m3/year;
34   Thermo electric power plant;
35   Hydroelectric power plants exceeding 20 MW;
36   Facilities for gasification and liquefaction of coal and bituminous ores;
37   Electric transmition facilities, distribution plants and other facilities exceeding 20 KV;
38   Major oil lines, gas lines, product lines and major measuring-regulatory stations;
39   Storage facilities for coal, natural gas, oil and derivatives.
9     Facilities in field of transportation
1    Highways, speedways and motor roads and other immobile transportation facilities;
2    Railroads and industrial railroads and other immobile transportation facilities;
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL                      19 OF 55



Environmental Appraisal Form
EIA No. 1
3    Airports and helicodromes for public air transportation;
4    River docks, channels and transit sites.
10   Facilities and works in field of agriculture, forestry and waterworks;
1    Cutting woods on larger areas;
2    Hydro-melioration works on larger areas;
3    Major dams and multi-functional accumulations;
4    Cattle and poultry farms with capacity exceeding 500 animals;
5    Slaughterhouses with capacity exceeding 50 aninals;
6    Facilities for production of protein fodder;
11   Facilities of in field of communal activities;
1    Facilities for incineration or disposal of solid municipal waste for regional capitals and
towns with population exceeding 10000;
2    Facilities for waste water treatment with capacity exceeding 20000 inhabitant equivalent
and facilities for production of biogas;
3    Cemeteries and crematoria for towns with population exceeding 20000.
12   Other facilities
1    Resorts, tourist complexes and hotel facilities wii:h capacity exceeding 500 users;
2    Sky tracks;
3    Storage and drying facilities exceeding 500 t;
4    Facilities for incineration, chemical treatment or disposal of industrial and hazardous
waste;
5    Facilities for processing, temporary storage or permanent disposal of radioactive waste;
6    All types of aforementioned facilities and works that need a construction permit issued by
the Ministry competent for construction issues or other competent Ministry according to
relevant legislation.
Table 4. Checklist EIA No. 2 (Serbia)
EIA No. 2
1 All types of facilities and works planed to be constructed/ventured in a protected natural area
including protective zones of immobile cultural goods;
2  Industrial zones;
3  Customs zones;
4  New urban zones;
5  Regulation of river beds;
6  Transformation of non-utilized to arable land;
7  Large-scaled comassative activities;
8  Objects of industry and mining;
1 Exploitation of oil and natural gas;
2 Utilization of underground water in amount exceedirg 10 m3/year;
3 Hydroelectric power plants exceeding 20 MW;
9  Facilities and works in field of agriculture, forestry and waterworks;
1 Cutting woods on larger areas;
2 Hydro-melioration works on larger areas;
3 Major dams and multi-functional accumulations;
Table 5. Checklist EIA No. 3 (Montenegro)
EIA No. 3
I Production and processing of metals
1. Facilities for processing metals;
2. Shipyards;
3. Constructing of machines;
4. Production of transportation means;
5. Production of electrical machines and devices, electric appliances and other electric products;
20 OF 55                 EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Environmental Appraisal Form
EIA No. 3
6. Facilities for processing cast iron and steel and for production of non-ferrous metals
11 Production and processing of non-metal minerals (without construction materials)
7. Production and processing of glass and glass fibers;
8. Other facilities for processing of non-metal raw materials.
III Production of construction materials
9. Production of cement and limestone;
10. Asphalt bases;
11. Production of other construction materials;
12. Facilities for exploitation and processing of asbestos and asbestos-containing products.
IV Chemical Industry
13. Facilities of basic chemical industry;
14. Facilities for processing semi-products and production of chemicals;
15. Production and processing of chemical products (pesticides, plastic masses, pharmaceutical
products, paints, lacquers, etc.);
16. Storage of poisons, pesticides, oil, chemical, petrochemical and pharmaceutical products;
17. Production and processing of raw rubber and rubber;
18. Tans for storage of petrol, petrochemical and chemical products;
19. Refineries for oil processing and accompanying facilities, facilities for gasification and liquefaction
of coal and bituminous ores;
V Food industry
20. Processing and preserving food and vegetables;
21. Slaughterhouses, processing and preserving meat;
22. Production of sugar and chocolate products;
23. Production of plant and animal oils, fats and waxes;
24. Production of alcohol and alcoholic beverages;
25. Production of beer, molasses and yeast;
26. Production of non-alcoholic beverages and syrups;
27. Processing and preserving fish, fish flower and fish oil;
28. Production and processing of milk and dairy products;
29. Processing of tobacco;
30. Mills, grain storage tanks and drying facilities;
31. Coolers;
32. Packaging of plant and animal products;
33. Industrial facilities for producing starch;
VI Textile industry, processing of leather, processing of wood and paper production
34. Production of natural and synthetic fibers and fabrics, dying fabrics and producing carpets;
35. Processing, cleaning, bleaching and removing fat from wool;
36. Processing of raw hide and producing leather products;
37. Processing of wood, producing semi-products and produc:ts of wood;
38. Production of cellulose and paper.
VII Mining
39. Mines;
40. Exploitation of mineral raw materials (non-metals such as: technical-construction and ornamental
stone, sand, gravel, salts, phosphates, etc.);
41. Exploitation of peat;
42. Drilling particularly including:
Geothermal drilling;
Research drilling exceeding 100 m;
Drilling wells for water supplies (apart from drilling conducted in order to assess stability of the
ground).
EXPORT FrNANCE FACILITATIONPROJECT:ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL                        21 OF 55



Environmental Appraisal Form
EIA No. 3
43. Exploitation of ground waters not exceeding 1000000 m3,'year;
44. Processing and dry distillation of coal (Cox);
45. Exploitation and construction of facilities for exploitation of oil, gas and bituminous ores;
VIII Energy
46. Hydroelectric power plants and accessory facilities;
47. Installations and facilities for transmition of electric energy, steam and hot water;
48. Superficial and underground tanks of inflammable gases;
49. Superficial and underground tanks of fossil fuels;
50. Pipelines for transport of oil, natural gas and other materials including related equipment;
51. Thermoelectric power plants and other facilities for comblusting fossil fuels.
IX Agriculture, forestry and fisheries
52. Commasation projects;
53. Projects for turning land into arable land exceeding 5 acres;
54. Melioration projects;
55. Farms for raising poultry, cattle, pigs, etc.;
56. Aquaculture (growing of fish, shells, etc.);
57. Cutting forests and changing purpose of forest land on major areas;
58. Projects for protection from floods;
59. Undertakings that may cause in basic changes in biodiversity, structure and functioning of
ecosystems.
X Infrastructure
60. Living areas, new city blocks, business centers, trade canters, hospitals and health facilities,
storage complexes, halls and other urban undertakings with related infrastructure;
61. Ports, sea and river docks and channels;
62. Highways, speed-reads and motor roads with accompanying facilities;
63. Tunnels, bridges, viaducts and other road facilities;
64. Railroads, tram roads;
65. Airports, helicodromes;
66. Landfills for disposing and facilities for incinerating and tn3atment of municipal waste;
67. Landfills and equipment for disposal, incinerating, chemical treatment or destroying in another
way of toxic and hazardous waste;
68. Sky tracks;
69. Dams, reservoirs and other facilities for long-term collection and storage of water;
70. Construction of sewerage and water systems.
Xi Other undertakings
71. All undertakings in protected natural areas;
72. Tourist, hotel complexes and hotels;
73. Facilities for treatment of waste waters and disposal of sluwdge;
74. Disposal sites for waste metal;
75. Facilities for testing engines and motors;
76. Production and packaging of gun powder, explosives and ammunition;
77. Petrol stations, auto tire and mechanic service shops;
78. Cemeteries and crematoria for towns with population exceeding 5000.
22 OF 55                  ExPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Environmental Appraisal Form
Table 6. Export/Import Check List (To be filled in by creditor-bank)
Does enterprze have import/export permit issued by         Yes            No         Not Available
Department of En,ironment within the Federal Secretariat for  __ g  1
1 Health and Social Policrv)                             _     I     1219 I
11 Does enterprize:
Import, export and transit of endangered and
protected species of wild flora and fauna, and their
111 development stages and parts?                     Yes            No
For the list check                          go ic  1 -
Checklist No -                          I             ]fJ
Import, export and transit of genetical resources of
wild flora and fauna, biotechnologies and genetically
112 modified organisms                                Yes            No
For tne lisl check                          gollo 13      9       I  11 J
* List is uncder preparalion
Collect, use or trade wild plant and animal species,
seeds, fruits, eggs and other lower development
113 stages, except of game animals in Serbia          Yes            No
Igo tol 3        IgoZ o J   11.
Collect, use or trade wild plant and animal species,
seeds, fruits, eggs and other lower development
114 stages, except of game animals in Montenegro      Yes            115
Ig_o_io_I   4     Igo_o   1__E5
Import, export and transit of toxic wastes, as listed
115 in:                                          _    Yes            No
Checklist No 5                             Igo lol 1' 3   qo lo |   11
Import, export and transit of non-toxic wastes, as
116 listed in:                                        Yes            No
Checklist No 6                          1Tgo lo13 I       goIc, 7 117
Import, export and transit of substances that deplet
117 the ozone layer, as listed in:                    Yes            No
_         Checklist No. 7                          _   1     5    Z    J Iq
Attach copies of import/export permit issued by
Department of Environment within the Federal Secretariat
12 for Health and Social Policy                      and go to  16
Ask for valid import/export permit issued by Department of
Environment within the Federal Secretariat for Health and
13 Social Policy                                     and go to   1
Ask for valid import/export permit issued by Federal
Bureau for Genetic Resources - Federal Ministry of
14. Economv                                          ancl goto 1a
Ask for vatid import/export permit issued by Federal
15 Secretariat for Health and Social Policy          ancd go to  1
Import-export business is in compliance with federal
16 environmental regulations                         ancl go to  2
Import-export business is NOT in compliance with  Instruct loaner to provide valid environmental
_    17 domestic environmental regulations                pern-it
Does enterprize have import/export permit issued by Federal  Yes     I    No     I   Not Available
la  Bureau for Genetic Resources - Federal Ministrv of Economy? I  IqolI 181  Igo to  14    Igo lo  17
Attach copies of import/export permit issued by Federal
Bureau for Genetic Resources - Federal Ministry of
_    18 Economy                                          ancl goto  16
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL                                    23 OF 55



Environmental Appraisal Form
Tab. 6. Export/Import CheckList - Cont.
Yes           No        Not Available
Does enlerpriZe have perm,t for trade issued by Direclorate
of Environmenlal Protection - rMlinis1ry of Heailh ana
3 Envircnmeni of Republic or Serbia                    g o t  32    go 10   3 1    g      5
31 Does enterprize:
Collect, use or trade wild plant and animal
species, seeds, fruits, eggs and other lower
development stages, except of game animals
311 from the:                                    Yes            No
Checklist No. 4                         lao t] 33    Igo to 1 31I 
312 Trade with the following tree species:       Yes            No
Checklist No 8                        -IgoLot    35  Igo |j 313
313 Handling with the wastes:                 _    Yes          No
Checklist No 6                          Tao,d 3      Igo to 1 31-
Handling with the wastes tha have
314 characteristics of hazardous substances:  _  Yes            No
Checklisl No 5                      _     0qo Ic| 33  0qo 5o 1  '
Attach copies of permit for trade issued by Directorate
of Environmental Protection - Ministry of Health and
32 Environment of Republic of Serbia             and ao to 34
Ask for valid permit for trade issued by Directorate of
Environmental Protection - Ministry of Health and
33 Environment of Republic of Serbia             and goto   3
Import-export business is in compliance with
34 Serbian environmental regulations
Import-export business is NOT in compliance with Instruct loaner to provide valid environmental
35 Serbian environmental regulations             pennit
Does enterprize have permit for trade issued by Ministry of         No        Not A   N ol
I 41Agriculture of Republic of Montenegro? FIgoANCI F1                              LMANUL 4
24 OF 55                    ExPORT FINANcE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Environmental Appraisal Form
Tab 6. Export/Import Check List- Cont.
Does enterprize have permit for trade issued by Ministry of  Yes   No      | Not Available
Aariculture of Reoublic of Monlenecro?              Igo to 421   Igo t1o  411   loto  46
41 Does enterDrize:
species, seeds, fruits, eggs and other lower
development stages, except of game animals
411 from the:
Chehkist Nc. 4                                      Igo to 14,1
412 Handling wih the wastes:                     Yes           No
Checki-st Nc 6                      _lo144a         laoto I 41,
Handling wih the wastes tha have characteristics
413 of hazardous substances:                                   No
Checklisl No. 5                         1  it 4 a   Igo to | 
Attach copies of permit for trade ssued by Ministry of
42 Agriculture of Republic of Montenegro        anci go to 45
Ask for valid permit for trade issued by Ministry of
43 Aariculture of Republic of Montenegro        ancl go to  4
Ask for valid permit for trade issued by Ministry of
Environment and Urban Planning of Republic of
44 Montenegro                                   ancd go to 4a
Import-export business is in compliance with
45 Montenegrian environmental regulations
Import-export business is NOT in compliance with Instruct loaner to provide valid environmental
_   46 Montenegrian environmental regulations       permit
Does enterprize have permit issued by Ministry of  =  Yes          No        Not Available
Environmnenl and Urban Plann,ng or Republic of    _.___
d a Monlenecro                                      h    golo 45     goo     43      olo 46
Import-export business is NOT covered with domestic
I 5 environmental regulations                        Apply ONLY World Bank criterias
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL                           25 OF 55



Environmental Appraisal Form
Part D (to be filled in by a creditor-bank)
The loaner is required to present the following documents or their copies:
Required     Presented
Yes          Yes   No
4. Environmental Appraisal Form
(Environmental Appraisal Form
Table 1)                                                     _
Urban Planning Permit                                   Yes   No    Yes    No
Construction Permit                                     Yes   No    Yes    No
Water Resources Permit                                  Yes   No    Yes    No
Utilization Permit                                      Yes   No    Yes    No
Environmental Impact Assessment                         Yes   No    Yes    No
Preliminary Environmental Impact Assessment             Yes   No    Yes    No
Detailed Environmental Impact Assessment                Yes   No    Yes    No
Final conclusions and statement of the bank concerning the risks of allowing a credit
and opinions about nature protection issues relating 1o the planned activity:
Submitted by (and confirmed on behalf of the loaner that the above given information is true
and correct):
Name:
Position:
Signature:
Date:
Received and examined by:
Officer's name:
Position:
Signature:
Date:
26oF 55                ExPORT FINANCE FACILITATICN PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
5. Legal, regulatory and institutional framework review for
environmental assessment in Yugloslavia
5.1.     Legal framework
The legislative acts can be passed at the federal level, applying on the territory of both
member republics, or at the republic level applying on the territory of the republic that
adopted such an act. The Federal Assembly is comprised of two chambers: The Council of
Citizens and the Council of Republics. The simple or two-third majority of federal deputies'
votes in both of the chambers of the Federal Parliament are needed for passing a law at the
federal level. The Federal Government and the Federal Ministries adopt legislative (under-
law) acts on the federal level. Republic Assemblies pass republic laws, and governments of
the republics and republic ministries adopt legislative (under-law) acts on the republic level.
The legislative acts passed on the republic level must not be in discordance with the
legislative acts passed at the federal level.
5.1.1.Federal level
The Federal Assembly adopted the Law on the Principles of Environmental Protection in
1998 (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, No24/98).
5.1.2.Republic of Serbia
In Serbia, the 1991 Environmental Law (Official Journal of Republic of Serbia No. 66/91,
83/92, 53/93, 67/93, 48/94 and 53/95) regulates the following matters: measures of protection
in planning and construction, protection of the air, water, soil, forests and natural goods,
noise, ionizing radiation and hazardous waste control, financing of protection and inspection.
The Serbian government is undergoing major restructuring as a result of which the nature and
role of the environmental agency is likely to change significantly. A new Law on the System
for Environmental Protection will be discussed in the Republican parliament during March /
April 2002.
5.1.3.Republic of Montenegro
In Montenegro, special laws govern special areas of the environment and the Environmental
Protection Law was adopted in 1996 (Official Journal of Republic of Montenegro No. 12/96,
55/00).
5.1.4.AII levels
The legislation covers all the sectors including horizontal sector (EIA). Enforcement
instruments are provided including judicial and economical instruments (non-compliance fees
and fines, pollution charges...). There are inspectorates controlling compliance. However, the
efficiency of enforcement and implementation of the environmental legislation is weak: the
number of inspectors is low, fees and fines could not be collected due to the inefficient legal
system. There has been no assessment of the efficiency cf economic enforcement instruments.
The Polluter-Pay Principle is not enforced.
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL               27 OF 55



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
5.2.     Institutional framework
The following Ministries and other state organs are competent for environmental issues:
?  The Federal Secretariat for Health and Social Wo:rk - environmental department;
?  Federal Ministry of Agriculture;
? Ministry of Health and Environment - Directorate for Environmental Protection -
Republic of Serbia;
? Ministry of Environmental Protection and Urban Planning - Republic of Montenegro;
?  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Resources - Republic of Serbia;
?  Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Forestry - Republic of Montenegro;
?  Federal Hydrometheorological Institute;
? Hydrometheorological Institute - Republic of Serbia;
? Hydrometheorological Institute - Republic of Montenegro;
?  Institute for Protection of Nature of Serbia;
?  Institute for Protection of Nature of Republic of Montenegro;
? Agency for Recycling - Republic of Serbia.
The administrative and economical system of the FR Yugoslavia and Republic of Serbia is
undergoing an extensive reform program as a part of launched program of improvement of
democracy in the FRY since October 2000. This reform program, aimed at reaching better
govemance in a market economy, has first resulted in a reduction of the number of ministries
at the Federal level and republic level.
Nowadays, the environment sector ministry level stakeholders are:
? Federal Secretariat for Health and Social Policy, Department for Environmental
Protection
?  Ministry of Public Health and Environmental Protection of Republic of Serbia,
Directorate for Environmental Protection
? Ministry for Housing and Environment, Montenegro
5.2.1 .Federation
At the Federal level, there is no Ministry of Environment but a Secretariat for Health and
Social Policy within which Department for Environmental Protection is present (Annex 1).
The responsibilities of the Secretariat are limited and environmental issues are also under the
responsibility of other ministries. The responsibilities of the Department comprise:
?  environmental protection at federal level,
? protection of the ozone layer,
? monitoring of transboundary air pollution,
? monitoring of transboundary pollution of water and sea,
?  transboundary waste disposal, and
?  intemational cooperation (negotiation and ratification of conventions and agreements.
There is no integral national information system for the environment, regardless of certain
activities. Furthermore, the national statistical methodology is not adjusted to the collection of
data relevant to sustainable development, so that there is no information about the
contribution made by the industries and population towards environmental protection.
28 OF 55               EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
5.2.2.Republic of Serbia
In the Republic of Serbia, there is no Ministry of Environment but a Directorate for
Environment under the Ministry for Health and Environmental Protection (Annex 1). The
responsibilities of the Directorate for Environment are lirnited and a number of environment
related responsibilities, such as the protection of soils and water resources, and land use
planning are within the scope of activity of other ministries such as the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Water, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, and the Ministry of Local
Government and Urban Planning.
The Serbian Directorate for Environment has a limited staff of around 40 inspectors (in
regional inspectorates) and operates with a limited budget.
The competencies of the Federal and republic authorities coincide and overlap in this area. A
consistent approach to environmental protection at the national level is also lacking.
The scattered environmental responsibilities between several ministries are seen as a major
constraint. The creation of a Serbian ministry for "Natural Resources Management and
Environment" is foreseen. The establishment of the new Ministry will be followed by
establishing the Agency for Environmental Protection of the Republic of Serbia. Those
changes are expected after announced restructuring of the Serbian Government in March
2002.
Several other institutions are responsible for environmental protection (e.g. hydro-
meteorological institutes, institutes for public health, etc.). However, the level of coordination
among them is unsatisfactory.
5.2.3.Republic of Montenegro
In the Republic of Montenegro, the reconstruction of the government in late 2001 resulted in
merging Ministry for Environmental Protection and Ministry of Urban Planning. As a result,
new Ministry of Environmental Protection and Urban Planning was established, within which
Department for Environmental Protection operates withthe staff of approximately 20 persons
(Annex 1). The responsibilities of that Department are rather limited and comprise the
following:
? environmental protection systems,
? nature conservation and natural resources protection,
?  establishing and implementing environmental protection measures for protected
natural resources and objects of nature,
?  establishing environmental conditions for construction works of public interest,
? protection of air and protection from hazardous substances in the ir production, trade
and disposal, and
?  managing the <National parks> enterprise (while four national parks are overseen by
the Ministry).
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL              29 OF 55



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
5.3.     Environmental Impact Assessment
At the Federal level, although FRY has not ratified the Espoo convention, the EIA in
transboundary context is covered by provisions in the law on the Basic Principles of the
Environmental Protection. There is, both in the Republic of Serbia and in the Republic of
Montenegro, legislation on Environmental Impact Assessment. In Serbia the EIA procedure is
described in the law on Environmental Protection and the Regulation on Environmental
Impact Assessments (EIA). In Montenegro, the EIA is regulated by the Law on Environment
and the Regulation on Environmental Impact Assessment.
In the Republic of Serbia, Environmental Impact Assessrnent applies to new developments
and investments likely to have negative impacts on the enviromnent, including industrial
plants, infrastructure projects (railroad, roads) and landfills.
The Environmental Impact Assessment is prepared folloNving defined procedures, by experts
accredited by the environmental authorities. For example, the Institutes of Public Health
(Belgrade, Novi Sad) play a role in EIA for development projects. The assessment is then
reviewed and ewentually accepted by the authorities. There are no provisions for public
participation and access to information in the EIA Act.
During the EIA process and the consequent permitting process, statements and assessments
are prepared by various authorities and expert bodies including e.g. the Serbian Institute for
Nature Protection or inspectorates. These statements or "compliances" are taken into account.
5.3.1.Environmental Assessrnent Law and Regulations
The federal Law on Environmental Protection includes provisions for environmental impact
assessment of development projects. Both Republics of Serbia and Montenegro have separate
Laws on Environmental Protection and Regulations on Environmental Impact Assessment.
At the Federal level, although FRY has not ratified the Espoo convention (see
http://www.unece.org/env/eia/), the EIA in transboundary context is covered by provisions in
the Law on the Basic Principles of the Environmental Protection.
There is, both in the Republic of Serbia and in the Republic of Montenegro, legislation on
Environmental Impact Assessment. In Serbia the EIA procedure is described in the law on
Environmental Protection and the Regulation on Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA).
In Montenegro, the EIA is regulated by the Law on Environment and the Regulation on
Environmental Impact Assessment.
5.3.1.1. Republic of Serbia
The Law on Environmental Protection of the Republic of Serbia (Article 14-17.) foresees that
the organizing of space, utilization of resources, plant and animal organisms is defined by the
spatial and urban city plans and other plans (plans on organizing and the basis for utilization
of Arable Land, Forest, Waterworks, Hunting and Fishing and forest utilization Basis and
other plans). The Ministry competent for environmental issues takes part n the procedure of
preparation and enacting these plans (Article 14, Law on Environmental Protection of the
Republic of Serbia). Regulations of Law on the Spatial Plan of the Republic of Serbia (Law
on the Spatial Plan of the Republic of Serbia, Official Bulletin, No. 13/96) and the Law on
Organizing of Space and Settlements of the Republic of Serbia (Law on Organizing of Space
30OF 55                EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATICIN PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
and Settlements of the Republic of Serbia, Official Bulletin of the Republic of Serbia, No.
44/95, 16/97, 46/98) govern issues concerning planning and construction.
Environmental impact assessment, including protection measures, is conducted for facilities
and construction works that can have a large impact on the environment according to the
provisions of the Law on Environmental Protection (Article 16.). The investor is obliged to
perform environmental impact assessments and to quantiffy the impact of the related activities
to the enviromnent, to plan and implement measures to prevent harmful effects on the
environment or recultivation measures, i.e. remediation measures and to ensure the
enforcement of the related provision (Article 4, Law on ,nvironmental Protection of the
Republic of Serbia). Environmental impact assessments include the assessment of direct and
indirect impacts to the environment.
The Minister for Environmental Protection ("the Minister" in the text) prescribes the type of
facilities and construction works that call for performing of the environmental impact
assessment, as well as the method of performing the environmental impact assessment and its
verification. Regulations on Environmental Impact Assessments of Facilities and
Construction Works (Regulations on Environmental Impact Assessments of Facilities and
Construction Works, Official Bulletin of the Republic of Serbia, No. 61/92) determines the
types of facilities and construction works that call for peiforming environmental impact
assessments, contents, methods for conducting and verifying the assessments. The types of
facilities and construction works in question are listed in the list of facilities and construction
works that are obliged to have an environmental impact assessments conducted (12
categories.
The analysis, if needed, contains the program for monitoring the impacts on the quality of the
environment to be conducted after initiating activities in question.
In the Republic of Serbia, Environmental Impact Assessment applies to new developments
and investments likely to have negative impacts on the environment, including industrial
plants, infrastructure projects (railroad, roads) and landfills.
The analysis offers essential and detailed information on possible effects of facilities or
activities on the environment to decision-makers and general public. It is important to
estimate which media of the environment will be probaLbly endangered. The analysis is also
suggesting alternative options or solutions that will be better adapted to the environment.
Climatological, geological, hydrogological and hydrological parameters are, in most cases,
taken from the existing projected documentation (general urbanistic plans, detailed urbanistic
plans) for a particular location.
According to the Regulations on Environmental Impact Assessment of Facilities and Works -
REIAFW (Official Bulletin of Republic of Serbia, No. 61/92) Environmental Impact
Assessment is conducted in two phases:
1. Prior Environmental Impact Assessment (PEIA);
2. Detailed Environmental Impact Assessment (DEIA).
The first phase, PEIA is conducted using technical and technological documentation for
facility/work in question and is based on the most recent scientific information and available
data.
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATIONPROJECT:ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL                 31 OF 55



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
PEIA contains (Article 4, REIAFW)
1. Physical features of the ground where facility/work in question will be
constructed/ventured;
2. Chief features of production and technological process, type and amount of raw
materials to be used;
3. Type and amount of energy to be used;
4. Assessment of types and amounts of waste and pollutant to be generated in regards to
air, water and soil, emissions of noise, vibrations, heat and other types of radiation;
5. Possible negative environmental impacts regarding population, flora, fauna, air, water,
soil, climatic factors, material goods, including cultural heritage, landscape values and
their interrelations and interrelation of all mentioned elements;
6. Risk assessment for facility/work in question;
7. Measures foreseen for preventing and lowering negative environmental impacts
(utilization of natural resources, emissions of pollutants, waste disposal, causing
damages) and measure to be undertaken in cases of accidents;
8. Chief alternatives that were discussed and reasons for selecting the pre-invested
project in regards to environmental protection;
9. Methods used in assessing possible negative environmental impacts.
PEIA is evaluated using following categories (Article 5, REIAFW):
1. "Meets requirements regarding environmental protection";
2. "Not enough data for the assessment; additional information needed"'
3. "Does not meet requirements regarding environmental protection".
Following regulations contained in Article 6, REIAFW, PEIA that contains sufficient amount
of information, i.e. if a final decision can be made based on such an assessment DEIA is not
to be conducted. PEIA is not to be conducted for facilities/works listed under following
numbers 1. through 7, 8, 10.
DEIA contains (Article 8, REIAFW):
1. Description of locality for facility/work in question;
2. Description of facility and production process;
3. Possible environmental chnnges and impacts of the facility/work in question;
4. Review of measures for preventing or lowering negative environmental impacts to be
undertaken in regular conditions and in cases of accidents;
5. Review of interrelations of all relevant elements contained in the EIA;
6. Annex containing listed sources of data and methLods used for conducting EIA;
7. Notes on possible lack of adequate alternatives regarding environmental protection
(lack of scientific, technological, legislative and other solutions) or lack of
possibilities to acquire relevant information.
Articles 8. to 13. (inclusive) of REIAFW regulate contents of each section of DEJA in detail.
The Detailed Analysis represents a regime of operation of a particular technological
(operational) process within present conditions, aimed at maximal prevention of further
degradation of the environment.
DEIA is evaluated using following categories (Article 14, REIAFW):
1. "Meets requirements regarding environmental protection";
2. "Does not meet requirements regarding environmental protection".
32 OF 55                EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATICIN PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
In case of not following pre- investment project, i.e. relevant technical documentation
submitted with the request for issuing construction permit for facility/work in question DEIA
is conducted for the altered section of the project.
List of facilities and works that EIA must be conducted for (Annex to REIAFW)
1. All types of facilities and works planned in a protected natural area, natural site and
protected area of a cultural monument;
2. Industrial zones;
3. Customs zones;
4. New urban zones;
5. Regulations of river beds;
6. Converting grounds to arable land;
7. Comassation of larger areas;
8. Industrial and mining facilities;
9. Transportation facilities;
10. Facilities and works in fields of agriculture, forestry and waterworks;
11. Communal facilities;
12. Other facilitates.
Regulations on Environmental Impact Assessment of Facilities and Works - REIAFW
(Official Bulletin of Republic of Serbia, No. 61/92) does not specifically mention which
body/institution is responsible for monitoring the implementation of measures contained in
the EIA.
Regulations on Conditions and Criteria for Conducting Environmental Impact Assessment of
Facilities and Works (Official Bulletin of Republic of Serbia, No. 49/2001) provides
conditions and criteria that must be met by organizations/institutions to be certified to conduct
EIA.
Law on Environmental Protection of Republic of Serbia ( Official Bulletin of Republic of
Serbia, No. 66/91, 83/92, 53/93, 67/93, 48/94, 53/95) in its section "Conservation of Natural
Goods" under sub-sections 7.4. "Expert Monitoring" (Article 53.), states that expert
monitoring of works ventured in course of implementation of programs of development and
protection of natural goods is obligatory and is conducted by the institution responsible for
natural protection.
Law on Environmental Protection of Republic of Serbia i(Official Bulletin of Republic of
Serbia, No. 66/91, 83/92, 53/93, 67/93, 48/94, 53/95) in its section "Inspection Service"
(Article 91.) states that monitoring over implementation of regulations of the Law and other
regulations adopted according to the Law is done by the Ministry if not decided otherwise.
Article 91., paragraph 2, of Law on Environmental Protection of Republic of Serbia (Official
Bulletin of Republic of Serbia, No. 66/91, 83/92, 53/93,157/93, 48/94, 53/95) states that
monitoring over implementation of measures for protection of air, protected natural areas,
noise, vibrations, hazardous substances and ionizing radiation is conducted by an
environmental inspector.
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT:ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL                33 OF 55



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
5.3.1.2. Republic of Montenegro
EIA is conducted for all actions that are planned or conducted by legal or physical
individuals, local or foreign that might result in polluting the environment in a form of Survey
of Environmental Impacts (Article 17, Law on the Environment of Republic of Montenegro,
Official Bulletin of Republic of Montenegro, and No. 12196).
The assessment must be done by the investor prior to undertaking actions from described in
paragraph of this Article (Article 17, Law on the Environment of Republic of Montenegro).
The Assessment identifies, describes and foresees direct and indirect environmental impacts,
particularly in regards to:
1. Population, flora and fauna;
2. Soil, water and sea, air, climate and landscapes;
3. Interrelation of factors under 1. and 2;
4. Material goods and cultural-historic heritage;
5. Economic and social environment.
List of facilities and works that EIA must be conducted fDr is provided as an Annex to Decree
on Environmental Impact Assessment of Undertakings (Official Bulletin of Republic of
Montenegro, No. 14/97).
Contents of the Survey of Environmental Impacts are precisely defined in the Decree on
Environmental Impact Assessment of Undertakings (Official Bulletin of Republic of
Montenegro, No. 21/97).
The Environmental Impact Assessment is prepared following defined procedures, by experts
accredited by the environmental authorities. For example, the Institutes of Public Health
(Belgrade, Novi Sad) play a role in EIA for development projects. The assessment is then
reviewed and eventually accepted by the competent Ministry. There are no provisions for
public participation and access to information in the EIA Act.
During the EIA process and the consequent permitting process, statements and assessments
are prepared by various authorities and expert bodies including e.g. the Serbian Institute for
Nature Protection or inspectorates. These statements or "compliances" are taken into account.
5.3.2.Environmental Impact Assessment in a
Transboundary Context
There is a translation of Environmental Impact Assessmnent in a Transboundary Context
Convention, but its revision is necessary. There is also an operational version of the proposal
of the law on approval of this international agreement, made a few years ago, yet it is
necessary to add a certain innovation to it. It is as well necessary to estimate the possibility of
the economic interest from the aspect of implications of joining this Convention.
It is planned to ratify the ESPO Convention until the end of 2002 year.
The procedure of the environmental impact assessment is realized at the republic level. In
Serbia, it was established in 1992 (Operating Procedure on impact assessment of objects, i.e.
activities on the environment ("Official Register of the Republic of Serbia", no. 61/92). In
Montenegro, this procedure was established in 1997 (Book of Regulations on environmental
impact assessment, "Official Register of the Republic of Montenegro", no. 14/97).
34 OF 55               EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
In regard to the procedure of environmental impact assessment in a transboundary context, the
(federal) Law on Basic Issues of Environmental Protection ("Yugoslav Official Register", no.
24/98) already contains regulations related to the application of this procedure in a
transboundary context. In the Article 20, Paragraph 3, of this Law, the federal organ
authorized for environmental issues is assigned as the authorized organ for information
transfer with other countries. This Article specifies that, in the case of transboundary
pollution, the information transfer with authorized organs in other countries is done by the
federal ministry.
A more complex analysis of the Yugoslav regulations, relevant for environmental impact
assessment (federal and republic), indicates that there are certain premises for application of
the ESPO Convention norms in FRY. Furthermore, it is clear that, for a high quality and more
detailed application of the ESPO Convention norms, certain changes and additions of some
existing regulations should be made (procedural question of cooperation of the authorized
organs, participation ofthe public in decision- making, etc.). However, the least clear question
is the question of influence of a consistent fulfillment of duties from the ESPO Convention on
the condition of the economy in FRY, yet the potential benefit arising from the approvalof
this international agreement should not be forgotten indeed.
5.3.3.Operating permits
The issues concerning operating permits are regulated under the following legislative acts:
FR YUGOSLAVIA
? Law on water regime (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, No. 59/98);
SERBIA
? Law on Planning and Disposition of Space and Settlements (Official Bulletin of
Republic of Serbia, No. 44/95, 23/96, 16/97, 46/98);
? Law on Construction of Facilities (Official Bulletin of Republic of Serbia, No. 44/95,
24/96, 16/97);
?  Law on Special Conditions for Granting Building Permits and Utilization Pernits for
Certain Facilities (Official Bulletin of Republic of Serbia, No. 16/97);
? Law on Waters (Official Bulletin of Republic of Serbia, No. 46/91, 53/93, 67/93,
48/94, 54/96);
? Regulations on the Contents of Technical Documentation Submitted in the Procedure
for Granting Water Resources Compliance and Water Resources Permit (Official
Bulletin of Socialist Republic of Serbia, No. 3/78);
? Regulations on Deterrnining of Business and other Facilities Excluded from
Provisions of Applying for Water Resources Compliance (Official Bulletin of
Republic of Serbia, No. 41/94)
MONTENEGRO
? Law on Planning and Spatial Organization (Official Journal of RM, No. 16/95, 22/95,
22/95, 10/00);
? Law on Construction of Facilities (Official Journal of RM, No. 55/00);
? Law on Urbanistic and Construction Inspection (Official Journal of RM, No. 56/92,
16/95,23/95)
EXPORT FiNANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL              35 OF 55



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
? Law on Waters (Official Journal of RM, No. 16/95, 22/95)
?  Regulation on Contents of Technical Documentation Necessary for Issuing Water
Resources Compliance and Water Resources Permit (Official Journal, 4/96)
The issues concerning operating permits for putting objects into operation regarding the
environment are regulated under the following legislative acts:
SERBIA
?  Law on Environmental Protection ((Official Bulletin of Republic of Serbia, No. 66/91,
83/92, 53/92, 67/93, 48/94, 53/95)
? Regulations on the Environmental Impact Assessment of Facilities and Works
(Official Bulletin of Republic of Serbia, No. 61/92);
? Law on Sanitary Monitoring (Official Bulletin of Republic of Serbia, No. 34/94);
? Regulations on Proofs Submitted with the Request for Granting Sanitary Compliance
(Official Bulletin of Republic of Serbia, No. 5/95).
MONTENEGRO
?  Law on Environment (Official Journal of RM, No. 12/96);
?  Regulations on the Environmental Impact Assessment Study for Operations in the
Environment (Official Journal of RM, No. 14/97);
?  Guidelines on Contents of Environment Impact Assessment Study for Operations in
the Environment (Official Journal of RM, No. 21/97)
For each change in the space as a result of construction of given facilities or realizing other
works an urban planning permit is required. According to the Law on Planning and
Disposition of Space and Settlements the urban planning permit can be granted by the related
Ministry for urban planning or municipality competent for granting construction permit for
the given facilities and urban consent on technical documentation (Article 41. in
RS)/approval of location and urban compliance by related ministry or municipality for urban
planning and compliance of ministry for environmental protection on technical documentation
in Montenegro (Article 57.and 61.in RM).
The permit designates the spatial location for construction and determines urban planning,
technical and other conditions for the construction. The permit is granted for the period of up
to five years, without any extension period. The permit becomes ineffective in the period of
three years after granting if the request for granting the construction permit is not submitted
(Article 44. and 45. in RS). Approval of location in Moritenegro is granted in the period of up
to one year, if there is no request for construction permit (Article 54. in RM).
The construction and utilization permits are granted according to the provisions of the Law on
Construction of Facilities. If the Environmental impact assessment is needed for given
facilities it is necessary this assessment to become a part of the technical documentation for
the construction of given facilities (Article 4. in RS) (Article 13 in RM). The construction
may begin upon obtaining the construction permit. The construction permit, in cases listed
(Article 24 in RS) (article 32 in RM). the republic ministry in charge with construction issues
grants Law on Construction of Facilities. Construction permits for usually certain smaller
facilities are granted by the municipality or the city.
36 OF 55               EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
The facilities may be utilized upon the obtaining of the utilization permnit. The utilization
permit is granted by the organ in charge for granting utilization permits (Article 38 in RS)
(Article 51 in RM).
Water resources permit determines ways and conditions for utilization of waters and water
discharge. The water resources permit is granted by the organ that granted the water
resources compliance (see the details in the water supply section of these analyses). The
permit is granted on a limited period of time, maximum ten years. Approval for utilization of
facilities may be granted upon granting the water resources permit for given facilities.
The water resources compliance granted by the federal organ competentfor water resources
issues is necessary if construction of new facilities or reconstruction of existing facilities
might cause changes in the regime of surface and groundwater of interest for the country and
international waters (Article 16 in FRY).
The sanitary compliance (granted by the Republic Ministry of Health-Serbia) may be
requested along with the abovementioned permits.
5.3.4.Regulations Governing Environmental Audits and
Pollution Control in Existing Enterprises
The control over the fulfillment of legislation that determines the obligations stated in
environmental impact assessments of facilities (construction of new and reconstruction of old)
and works in the environment, is among the highest priorities of inspectorates in FR
Yugoslavia and its member republics. The inspection checked if the acts on conditions for
area arrangement contained measures for environmental protection, as well as if the measures
for environmental protection, anticipated by the impact assessments approved by the Ministry
of Environmental Protection, were conducted during the construction and functioning of an
particular facility or work.
Regardless of legal duties of the authorized municipal organ to condition the issuing of
permits for certain activities with a previous permit regarding the Impact Assessment, this is
often not respected. Also, it is usual that the act on fulfillment of conditions for the
environmental protection is issued by an unauthorized organ (municipal i.e. city inspector of
environmental protection), and thus a large number of objects start functioning before taking
adequate measures for environmental protection that would have been prescribed by the
Impact Assessment.
It is also rather frequent that the Impact Assessment is done and the permit of the Ministry
obtained, yet the object was put into operation without fulfilling certain protection measures.
This is possible due to the fact that the investor has no legal obligations to obtain a permit
from ecological inspectors on fulfilled measures of the environmental protection before
obtaining a technical acceptance or utilization permit.
Special activities of the environmental inspection are intended to control the activation of
those facilities that were not functioning for longer time periods. Particular measures are
taken to estimate the condition of the equipment and, after the elimination of deficiencies and
fulfilled measures for damage prevention, the inspectors, together with experts from the
Ministry, increase the control and offer the necessary support during the re-activation of the
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL               37 OF 55



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
facilities. A special attention is paid to companies from the chemical industry and to
potentially large environmental polluters.
5.4.     Regulations governing import I export of goods
Environmental regulations governing import / export of goods are developed in line with the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES
Convention, http://www.cites.org!) and The Basel Convenktion on the Control of
Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal (http://www.basel.ijnt). FR
Yugoslavia adopted both conventions - Basel convention in 1999 (Official Journal of FR
Yugoslavia - International Agreements No. 2/1999) and CITES convention in 2001 (Official
Journal of FR Yugoslavia, International Agreements, No. 11/200 1).
Concerning substances that deplete the ozone layer, Federative Republic of Yugoslavia is a
signatory to the The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer
(http://www.unep.ch/ozone/mont t.shtml).
Roles of environmental authorities in licensing and approval processes differ at different level
of governance within FR Yugoslavia.
5.4.1 .lmport I export of hazardous wastes and their
disposal
5.4.1.1. Federal Level
FRY implements the Basel Convention in accordance with the approved international
agreement: the Law on Approval of the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary
Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia -
International Agreements, no. 2/99). This Convention is in force in FRY since July 17, 2000.
For the implementation of the Basel Convention, several internal regulations are relevant in
FRY.
The Law on Basic Issues of Environmental Protection (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, no.
24/98) particularly specifies that:
?  Wastes can be imported only if they cannot be acquired in FRY, and are indispensable
in production as a secondary raw material (Article 26, Paragraph 1);
?  License for import, export and transit of wastes is issued by the federal ministry
authorized for environmental issues (Article 26, IParagraph 2);
?  Documentation prescribed by the federal ministry has to be supplemented to the
request for license (Article 26, Paragraph 3);
?  Federal Ministry controls waste movements across the territory of FRY (Article 26,
Paragraph 4);
?  Inspection control is realized by the federal ecological inspector at border crossings
during import, export and transit of wastes (Article 39).
The Book of Regulations supplemented to the request for import, export and transit of wastes
(Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, no. 69/99) contains regulations that regard the necessary
documentation for issuing the license for transboundary movements of wastes.
38 OF 55               ExPORT FINANCE FACILITATICIN PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Legal, re gulatory and Institutional Framework
The exporter or importer submits the request for license for import, export and transit of
wastes to the Federal Secretariat of Labor, Health and Social Care, supplemented with general
and special documentation.
The Notification and the Document on waste movements. are supplemented to each waste
shipment (Article 4)
List No. 1 of the book of Regulations contains new types of hazardous wastes according to
the national criteria. Those substance could be only exported or transit, while import is
banned.
The wastes that are not hazardous are specified in the List No. 2 of the Book of Regulations,
according to the classification of wastes in the Green (G) list of wastes in the system of
EU/OECD and the Annex IX to the Basel Convention. Those substances could be imported,
exported or transit.
5.4.1.1.1. Issuing license
The authorized organ for issuing licenses for import, export and transport of wastes is the
Federal Secretariat of Labor, Health and Social Care - Environmental Department.
Transboundary movements of hazardous and other wastes can only be done with the previous
written notification of those state organs and according to the license issued by these organs,
which approves such movements of wastes.
The importer or exporter submits the request for issuing license for import, export and
transport of wastes together with supplementary general and specific documentation.
The Document on movements of wastes is the form that is supplemented to each waste
shipment. The form is issued after the approval of all states included in transboundary
movements of wastes. Each form has its ordinal numeral and the unique ordinal numeral of
the Notification on transboundary movements of wastes.
In order to obtain a license for import, export or transit firom the Federal Secretariat, it is
necessary first to obtain a Certificate on characterization of the waste. That Certificate is
issued by the City Public Health Institute in Belgrade, 2S. Novembra 54a Street, as authorized
laboratory - authorized organ for characterization of wastes.
5.4.2.lmport / export of subsitances that deplete the
ozone layer
FR Yugoslavia is a signatory to the The Vienna Convention on Protection of Ozone Layer
(Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, International Contracts, No. 1/90) as well as to The
Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (Official Journal of FR
Yugoslavia, International Contracts, No. 16/90). As a member state FRY implements
regulations of both international contracts in scope of international trace. Those regulations
are fully implemented into federal legislative, namely in the Low on Foreign Trade (Official
Journal of FR Yugoslavia, nos 46/92, 49/92, 16/93, 24/94, 29/97, 59/98, 44/99, 53/99,
73/2000 and 23/2001).
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL              39 OF 55



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
The Federal Secretaniat for Labor, Health and Social Care - Department for Health is
responsible for issuing import / export Dl permit for the substances which are harmful for
ozone layer, according official list (Decree on Classification Goods into Types of Export and
Import, Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, nos 25/2001, 27/2001).
5.4.3.1onizing Radiation and INuclear Safety
5.4.3.1. Federal Level
This issue is regulated at federal level by:
? Law on Protection Against Ionizing Radiation (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, No.
46/96);
?  Decision on Conditions for Location, Construction, Test operation, Put into Operation,
Stop of Working Nuclear Facilities (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, No. 42/97);
? Law on Ban of Construction of Nuclear Power Station (Official Journal of FR
Yugoslavia, No. 12/95)
? Law on Transport of Hazardous Substances ((Official Journal of SFR Yugoslavia, No.
27/90, 47/90)
Import of radioactive waste materials of foreign origin, processing, storage and disposal are
ban in the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. (Article 21 .of Law on Protection
against of Ionizing Radiation). Nuclear safety measures are obligatory for location,
construction, put into operation, utilization and permanent stop working of nuclear facilities
(Article 24.of Law). Nuclear facility is facility in which the nuclear material is used, except
nuclear power station, installations for production nuclear fuel and processing of used nuclear
fuel (Article 2.par.7).
Nuclear facility may be constructed only on the location detenrnined under space and urban
plans. There is no possibility to locate, construct, test operation, put into operation, and
permanent stop working of nuclear facility without permit issued by the federal competent
authority (Federal Ministry for Economy). The permit could be issued if federal competent
authority confirms that safety measures are undertaken, on the basis of prescribed nuclear
safety report and other prescribed documentations (Article 25. of Law). Nuclear facility
would be project, construct, and put into operation, upkeep and permanent stop working under
Yugoslav standards, technical normative and quality nonns of products and service which
obtain prescribed nuclear safety of facility.
Construction of nuclear power, installations for production of nuclear fuel and installation for
processing of used nuclear fuel for nuclear power is ban in the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (Article 1. of Law on Ban of Nuclear Power Station).
This Decision prescribes special conditions for location, construction, and test operation, put
into operation, use and permanent stop working of nuclear facility. Nuclear facility is
detenmined in the scope of space and urban plans.
Permits for export/transit of radioactive materials are issued by the federal competent
authority - Federal Secretariat for Labor, Health and Social Care - Department for Health in
cooperation with federal Ministry for Internal Affairs (Law on Transport of Hazardous
Substances).
40 OF 55                EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
5.4.3.2. Republic level
In Serbia and Montenegro this issue is regulated by:
? Law on Construction of Facilities (Official Bullet:in of Republic of Serbia, No. 44/95,
24/96, 16/97);
? Law on Construction of Facilities (Official Journal of RM, No. 55/00)
Construction permits are issued for nuclear facility and other facilities for production energy
and nuclear fuel for scientific researcher, and storage of radioactive waste materials (Article
24.para.2) of Law in RS) / similar facilities and installations (Article 32 Para 1) of Law in
RM).
5.4.4.Other FRY regulations lfor import of hazardous
substances
The Law on Transport of Hazardous Substances (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, no.
27/90 and 45/90) forbids the import of wastes of hazardous substances of foreign origin for
temporary or permanent disposal on the territory of FRY (Article 28). A new obligation for
the holder of the handling right, i.e. owner, to insure the hazardous substance in case of
damage to third parties due to death, body or health injury, damaged or destroyed property or
pollution of the environment during transport, is introduced (Article 8).
The Law on Foreign Trade (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, nos. 6/92, 49/92, 16/93, 24/94,
28/96, 29/97, 59/98, 44/99, 53/99 and 55/99) regulates tlhat:
? Goods for which an ecological control is obligatory can be imported or temporarily
imported if it fulfills the prescribed requirements (Article 10, Paragraph 2);
? In order to prevent life and health risks for people and risks for the environment, the
Federal Government bans import and export of certain goods across the territory of
FRY, or prescribes conditions under which import, i.e. export of such goods is
allowed (ArticlelO, Paragraph 6);
? Import of hazardous waste substances is forbidden (Articlel2, Paragraph 6).
Regarding the Law on Customs (Official Journal of FR Ylugoslavia, nos. 45/92, 16/93, 50/93,
24/94, 28/96, 29/97 and 59/98), relevant regulations are those that regard the customs control
and treatment of goods that are harmful or dangerous for the environment.
According to the Law on Customs Tariff (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, no. 23/2001), a
major part of the waste that is controlled in the transboundary traffic does not have a tariff
number of the customs tariff. The determination of the customs tariff in scope of the work of
the World Customs Organization and the Secretariat of the Basel Convention is under way.
5.4.4.1. Republic of Serbia
In the Republic of Serbia, this domain is regulated in scope of the Law on Environmental
Protection (Official Journal of Republic of Serbia nos. 66/91, 83/92, 53/93, 67/93, 48/94 and
53/95). The domestic or imported technology cannot be applied and products cannot be put on
sale on the territory of the Republic, if they do not fulfill the prescribed norms of
environmental protection, i.e. norms of quality, or if the product is banned in the exporting
country. The Ministry can, in case of doubt, order that a itechnology or product have to be
examined, altlDugh it is provided with a prescribed document related to the harmful effects on
the environment, and in that case it assigns the expert organization (Article 17).
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL              41 OF 55



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
The waste material is collected, classified, prepared for usage as secondary raw material,
processed and temporarily or permanently stored and, if necessary, destroyed, under control
(Article 82, Paragraph 1).
The processing, storage and disposal of radioactive and other wastes that have characteristics
of hazardous substances of foreign origin are banned on the territory of the Republic (Article
82, Paragraph 2).
Treatment of hazardous substances in production, usage, transport, traffic, storage and
disposal is done in a manner that will not endanger life and health of people and will not
pollute the environment (Article 83, Paragraph 1).
The Law on Waste Handling (Official Journal of Republic of Serbia, no. 25/96) specifies
handling with wastes that can be used as secondary raw mnaterial, as well as the methods of
their collecting, processing and storage (Article 1).
The tasks of monitoring and control of the usage of secondary raw material, data registry and
measures of protection are realized by a special republic organization - Agency for Recycling
(Article 6, Articles 22-24). The Law specifies handling with wastes-secondary raw material as
well (Articles I 1-17).
The minister of environment issued the Book of Regulations on methods of treatment of
specific wastes that have characteristics of hazardous substances (Official Journal of Republic
of Serbia, no. 12/95), which defines and classifies wastes in accordance with the Basel
Convention, methods of temporary storage at the location of the manufacturer, criteria for
choosing the location for storage, necessary technical requirements, and registration of
dangerous wastes.
5.4.4.2. Republic of Montenegro
In the Republic of Montenegro, the implementation of the norms of the Basel Convention is
regulated in a similar way. Several regulations are relevant. The Law on Environmental Issues
(Official Journa I of Republic of Montenegro, no. 16/96) specifies the ban of application or
usage of technologies, products, semi finished products cr raw material forbidden in the
exporting or manufacturing country (Article 9, Paragraph 2). The Law also limits the import
of wastes, except with the permission of the ministry authorized for environmental protection
(Article 10, Paragraph 1). Besides this Law, some other regulations are relevant as well: Law
on Maintenance of Hygiene, Collecting and Usage of Wastes (Official Journal of Republic of
Montenegro., nos. 20/81, 26/81, 2/89, 19/89), Law on Water Supply, Discharge of Waste
Waters and Solid Waste Disposal for municipalities of Herceg Novi, Kotor, Tivat, Budva,
Bar, Ulcini and Cetinje (Official Journal of Republic of Montenegro, no. 46/91), Book of
Regulations on criteria for choosing location, methods and procedures of disposal of waste
substances (Official Journal of Republic of Montenegro, no. 56/00), etc.
5.4.5.lnternational trade of endangered species of wild
flora and fauna
The responsibility over endangered species of wild flora and fauna in international trade is
distributed between:
42 OF 55                EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
?  Federal organs (authorized federal organ for issuing licenses, for foreign trade,
customs, police, and republic organs authorized for protection of wild flora and
fauna);
?  Economy sector (importer, exporter, transporter);
? Scientific-expert organizations.
Principally, it is relatively clear what each organ has to do in regard to the regulations.
However, in practice, problems arise due to the unawareness of the certain regulations and to
the overlap of authority of particular organs.
5.4.5.1. Federal Level
FRY has joined the CITES Convention by issuing the Law on Approval of the CITES
Convention on International Trade of Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna on
November 5, 2001 (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, International Agreements, no.
11/2001). Before that, FRY has applied the CITES Convention (Article X), which relates to
the non-member countries as well, through issuing licenses and certificates comparable with
CITES documents.
5.4.5.1.1. Import, export and transit of endangered and protected species of
wild flora and fauna, and their d'evelopmental stages and parts
The authorized organ for communication with the CITES secretariat, i.e. for issuing licenses
for import, export and transit of endangered and protected species of wild flora and fauna, is
the Federal Secretariat of Labor, Health and Social Care - Environmental Sector.
The finalization of a Draft Book of Regulations on export, import and transit of endangered
and protected species of wild flora and fauna is under way, which will be issued by the
Federal Secretariat of Labor, Health and Social Care - Environmental Sector, in accordance
with the regulations of the CITES Convention.
5.4.5.1.1.1.Issuing license
The exporter or importer submits the request for a license for import, export and transit to the
Federal Secretariat for Labor, Health and Social Care - Environmental Sector, with
supplementing documentation, in accordance with the CITES Convention
The CITES license and certificates are issued as a form prescribed by the CITES Convention.
The license must accompany each shipment.
5.4.5.1.1.2.Other FRY regulations for export of protected mobile
natural assets
The Law on Foreign Trade (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, nos. 46/92, 16/93, 29/97,
59/98, 44/99, 53/99, 73/2000 and 23/2001) specifies that the export of protected mobile
natural assets is realized according to a special license. A corresponding phyto-sanitary,
veterinarian and ecological control of the exported goods are necessary in accordance with the
Decree on Classification of the Goods into Import and Export Forms.
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL              43 OF 55



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
5.4.5.1.1.2.1. The phyto-sanitary control
The phyto- sanitary control is realized according to the Law on Plant Protection from Diseases
and Pests (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, nos. 24/94 and 28/96).
5.4.5.1.1.2.2. The veterinary sanitation control
The veterinary sanitation control is done according to the Law on Animal Protection from
Infectious Diseases Representing a Threat to the Whole Country (Official Journal of FR
Yugoslavia, nos. 24/94 and 28/96).
5.4.5.1.1.2.3. Customs control
The Law on Customs (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, nos.45/92, 16/93, 50/93, 24/94,
28/96, 29/97, 59/98, and 23/2001) specifies measures of the customs control along
borderlines. The Law on Customs Tariff (Official Journal of FR Yugoslavia, no. 23/200 1)
contains tariffs for particular species of wild flora and fauna.
5.4.5.1.2. Import, export and transit of ,enetic resources of wildflora and
fauna, biotechnologies or genetically modified organisms
The authorized federal organization for genetic resources is the Federal Bureau for Genetic
Resources in scope of the Federal Ministry of Economy.
5.4.5.1.2.1.Issuing license
When submitting the request for a license, the applicant supplies the opinion, which states that
the environment will not be endangered, of the authorized federal organization, if genetic
resources are in question, and of the authorized scientific and expert organizations and
authorized scientific and expert institutions, if biotechnologies and genetically modified
organisms are in question (Law on Basic Issues of Environmental Protection Official Journal
of FR Yugoslavia, no. 24/98, Article 24).
5.4.5.2. Republic of Serbia
5.4.5.2.1. Protection and conservation tf species of wildflora andfauna
The protection and corservation of species of wild flora ,and fauna at the level of Republic of
Serbia is realized through special laws: Law on Enviromnental Protection (Official Journal of
Republic of Serbia, nos. 66/91, 83/92, 53/93, 67/93, 48/94 and 53/95); Law on Hunting
(Official Journal of Republic of Serbia, nos. 39/93, 44/93 and 60/93), Law on Fishery
(Official Journal of Republic of Serbia, nos. 35/94 and 38/94), Law on Forests (Official
Journal of Republic of Serbia, nos. 46/91, 83/92, 53/93, correction 67/93 and 48/94), and
through affiliated subordinate legal acts.
Collecting, usage and trade of particular wild plant and animal species, seeds, fruits, eggs and
other lower developmental stages, except of game animals, is specified through the acts on
controlling the usage and trade of these natural assets, issued by the minister (the Decree on
Protection of Natural Rarities of the Republic of Serbia, Official Journal of Republic of
Serbia, nos. 50/93 and 93/93, The Decree on Control of Trade of Wild Plant and Animal
Species, Official Journal of Republic of Serbia No 17/99). Those acts define the protection of
wild species of the lower threat status, which are collected from nature according to the
prescribed conditions for they collecting, as well as regulations that the collecting can only be
done in certain periods and quantities.
44 OF 55               EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
5.4.5.2.1.1.Issuing license
The license for collecting, usage and trade of the natural assets, is issued by the organization
that performs expert activities in scope of nature protection (in further text: organization for
nature protection). The license specifies the quantity that can be collected, period of the year
and area where they can be collected. The company that trades natural assets is obligated to
pay compensation for their usage. The level of compensation is determined through the act on
controlling the usage and trade of natural assets.
The protection of flora and fauna is realized through a permanent ban of usage, i.e. through
the protection of species as natural assets and through the ban of their usage (partial, in a
certain area, of certain size and quantity).
Wild species of flora and fauna protected by the permanent ban of usage, i.e. natural rarities,
cannot be destroyed, disturbed, hunted or torn, regarding both single specimens and their
habitats. These species are protected through a special subordinate legal act, the Decree on
Protection of Natural Rarities of the Republic of Serbia (Official Journal of Republic of
Serbia, nos. 50/93 and 93/93).
5.4.5.2.2. Other Serbian regulations for usage and trade of the natural
assets
Through the Law on Forests (Article 45), 6 tree species are protected. It is forbidden to cut
Serbian spruce, common yew, Turkish hazel, field elm, mnountain maple, hackberry,
individual and acknowledged seed trees and communities, trees of rare or endangered species
of forest trees, as well as to collect forest fruits and plants that are protected with a special
regulation.
Through the Law on Hunting, certain wild species are protected. Hunting includes breeding,
protection and usage of game animals. For each hunting ground a registry is established and
managed. With a permanent ban of hunting, certain species of mammals are protected (e.g.
lynx, stoat, steppe polecat, otter), as well as birds (e.g. storks, swans, all birds of prey -
eagles, vultures, hawks, except goshawk, grouses, cranes, gulls etc.). With the ban of hunting
in a specific period, particular species of mammals are protected (e.g. red deer, fallow deer,
roe deer, chamois, mouflon, brown bear, red squirrel, brown hare, etc.), as well as birds (e.g.
grebes, cormorants, gray heron, wild goose, quail, pheasant, pigeons, etc.). A closed season
can be determined for other game animals if their survival were threatened in a particular area
(game animals out of the protection regime), both mammals (e.g. wolf, jackal, red fox, wild
cat, western polecat, etc.) and birds (e.g. hooded craw and magpie).
According to this Law, the minister of agriculture has issued the Decree on Hunting Closed
Season for game animals (Official Journal of Republic of Serbia, no. 84/93), which
determines the protection of game animals - a closed season - in certain areas and during a
certain period of the year. The hunting of protected game animals, both mammals (fur game
animals) and birds (game birds) is banned. In the period from May 16 to July 31, only the
hunt of male roe deer for breeding purposes can be done.
The freshwater fishery regulates production, catch, keeping, improvement and protection of
fish in fishing waters. The Law on Fisherv determines the measures of fish protection in
fishing areas, and the Decree on Fishing Closed Season for particular fish species in a fishing
area or in its parts, specifies the ban of fishing of undersized fish.
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL                45 OF 55



Legal, regulatory and Institutional Framework
5.4.5.3. Republic of Montenegro
The current legislative of the Republic of Montenegro, relevant for the CITES Convention, is
based on the same framework as the legislative of the Republic of Serbia. There are several
important regulations. In scope of the Law on Environmental Protection, the following laws
specify that the particular endangered plant and animal species are protected with a permanent
protection, closed season, etc.: Law on Hunting (Official Journal of Republic of Montenegro
No. 47/99), Decree on Protection of Rare, Scarce, Endemic and Endangered Plant and Animal
Species (Official Journal of Republic of Montenegro No. 36/82), Law on Sea Fishery
(Official Journal of Republic of Montenegro Nos 26/92, 59/92), Law on Freshwater Fishery
(Official Journal of Republic of Montenegro Nos 39/76, 51/76, 34/88; Official Journal of
Republic of Montenegro No. 4/92), Law on Forests (Official Journal of Republic of
Montenegro No. 55/00), and affiliated subordinate legal acts. The Law on Hunting (Official
Journal of Republic of Montenegro No. 47/99) specifies that caught game animals and
trophies cannot be taken out of the hunting grounds and put into traffic without a shipment
document, i.e. trophy certificate, issued by the user of the hunting ground, in accordance with
the regulation issued by the authorized Ministry. A subordinate legal act is under preparation,
which will regulate usage and traffic control of plant and animal species.
46 OF 55               ExPORT FINANCE FACILITATIC,N PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Amnexes
6. Annexes
Annex 1. Map of FR Yugoslavia
H u n g a r y  !  As-r.              I.r        .;-LII
Croaot=a
osnla anD _.                              acjj,  ad
:.rn- .  In   E           I
fr'a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BuIg 
V  0  J  V  0  0  I  N  A
Croatia          i  '    F__l'
Pin.  ,,i',                  .f
.~~~~~~~~~ .as
Bosnia and        it-'          r       -  tr .
Heriegovina                     ^e  -    -^-       >
' '   ~S   E   RA  t  -  I  A
'.'l
u .i:n&  ._.
..   f  ,.,,.,       ; -           BuJlgamia
itip  -
E F   0 N T E N E G A O   E R  NULO
B-.,-
Crusts                           h  O  S  a  ir o     j
FYROM
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~tp
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL M\ANUAL        47 OF S55



Annexes
Annex 2. Organizational Chart of the Federal Secretariat for Health and Social Policy
|Federal Secretariat for Health |
and Social Policy
|Federal Sanitary   l|Department foDrl
|Inspectorate                      Environmentil Protection
Federal Institute for          roup for            Unit for
Protection and       _       rEnvironmental        Environmental
IMDrovement of               Law and               Management
Federal Institute for
Social Welfare       _        Law issues                Air Protection
Law_ isue              Technology
Federal Bureau for                                                 Biota
Labor Market and            Inentonl      _'ater, Sea
Mi.qration   International                Pro~~~~Iterntiona,
MlqrationnEnvironmental     Hazardous
Protection                  Substances,
lmplement-          ~~~Industry, Accidents
Implement-~NG             Puli
action and                   R
Law                         Soil and Water
_ Protection Projects l
|Biodiversity, Biota
XProtection Projects
International
Envi ronmental
PrniRntMs
NGO Public
Relations,
_Environmental
Urban Planning, 
Information System 
48 OF S S                 EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATICON PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Annex 3. Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Public Health and Environmental Protection of the Republic of Serbia
Ministry of Public Health and
Environmental Protection of the Republic
of Serbia                                      Secretariat
Dept 1           Dept 2          Dept 3          Dept 4                Directorate for
Health           Health          Sanitary        Media Supply          Environment
Protection and   Services and    Protection                            Protection
Issues           Protection
Dept of          Dept of          Department        Institute for Nature
Nature           Economics        of                Protection
Protection                        Environment
Dept of                                    Prey Office          Regional
Environmental                              Nis                  Office Novi
Inspectorates   l                                     I         Sad
Regional
Office
I  .  l  l   l   l     -   Pristina
Belgrad         Novi Sad       Sabac Unit     Usice Unit    [isUn            Pristina Unit
Unit            Unit



Annex 4. Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Urban Planning, Montenegro
IA                            t Minister
|Deputy Minister (Urban P              ADeputy Minister                  A
Planning)    O N
Dept of                                         Department of
Environmental                                   Environmental
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         A d m inistrativev Iss u e sAc tn oivi i s
Naiurand Waoterton       AINtrlRsorercduiisraies and
lty Ofuald                                               Ic E    omplegeation o
resotectio n   Radioactivity, Noise                          H                                Environmental
Bidiertt                         anpci nd Viraion                                                 Educatal  olic   and
_                   .                   Administrative Issues~~~~~~~~~~dmiisraiv    Activities
Noise, Vibrations
EIA and Eco
Management



Annexes
Annex 5. Check list No. 4
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL          51 OF 55



Annexes
Annex 6. Check List No.5
52 OF 55             EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Annexes
Annex 7. Check List No.6
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL         53 OF 55



Annexes
Annex 8. Check List No.7
54 OF 55              ExPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL



Annexes
Annex 9. Check List No.8
EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL MANUAL         55 OF 55



