Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
October 22, 2001 
 
Mr. Miroljub Labus  
 
 
 
Deputy Prime Minister 
Federal Government of  
 
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
Bul. Mikajla Pupina 2 
Belgrade 11070 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
 
Re:  
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia: Japanese Grant for Export Finance 
 
Facilitation Project Grant Number TF026818                                        
Dear Mr. Labus: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate  
IDA’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount 
not exceeding three hundred twenty eight thousand three hundred eighty United States dollars 
(US$328,380) (the Grant) to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by IDA of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as 
of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Neil Simon Gray 
Acting Country Director and Regional Coordinator for 
Southeast Europe 
Europe and Central Asia 
 
AGREED: 
 
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia 
By: Mr. Miroljub Labus 
Title:    Deputy Prime Minister 
Date: November 1, 2001 
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Export Finance Facilitation 
Project (the Project), which aims to support sustainable economic growth by facilitating trade 
transactions in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The activities (the Activities) for which the 
Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a) 
provision of technical assistance to the Yugoslavia Export Credit Agency (YECA) 
(a state-owned entity to be created in the territory and under the laws of the Recipient) for capacity 
building of project implementation unit to set up systems of financial management, environmental 
assessment, procurement, and project monitoring and evaluation in accordance with IDA policies 
and procedures, through consultants’ services (estimated to cost US$114,505 equivalent); 
 
(b) 
provision of technical assistance to the YECA in credit insurance and political risk 
insurance areas, through consultants’ services (estimated to cost US$88,762 equivalent); and 
 
(c) 
provision of technical assistance to the YECA in the credit risk assessment area, 
through consultants’ services (estimated to cost US$102,013 equivalent). 
 
(d) 
provision of software and equipment to allow YECA to set up systems of financial 
management, environmental assessment, procurement and project monitoring and evaluation in 
accordance with IDA policies and procedures (estimated to cost US$15,000). 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) 
promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) 
furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall 
reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA’s representatives on the progress 
and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the 
representatives of IDA to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish 
to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services and goods 
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
3.2.  
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities 
relevant to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed. 
Page  3
3
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities: 
 
%
of 
 
Amount of the Grant 
Expenditures to 
 Item
Allocated in U.S. Dollars
be Financed
(1) Consultants’ services, 
313,380 
84% 
 
including audits 
 
(2) Goods 
15,000
100% 
 
TOTAL 
328,380
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services 
supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after June 13, 2002 or such 
later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided that, except 
in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of Bank 
approval of financing for the Project. However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is 
received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the 
Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, 
by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to 
another item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by Deputy Prime Minister of 
the Recipient, or such other person as he shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by 
such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request. Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first 
Page  4
4
application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and 
its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the 
carrying out of the Activities. IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of individual consultants costing less 
than US$10,000 equivalent each; and (b) goods, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant. IDA, at 
the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in 
United States dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Page  5
5
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b)  
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with 
IDA shall have been suspended. 
 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, 
at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (d) if the 
Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in financing the Project. 
 
Page  6
6
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for Activities under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.     
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to IDA for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated 
to cost the equivalent of US$10,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference 
and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
Page  7
7
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the “Guidelines for Procurement 
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines). The review 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, 
provided that the word “bids”, in such paragraph 4, shall be read as “quotations”. 
 
Page  8
8
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible item(s)” means the item(s) set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 
of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to US$100,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to IDA 
requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to IDA 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by IDA from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  9
9
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to IDA all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
Page  10
10
cc:  Friedrich Peloschek, Emilie Santos
 
