                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR0000597




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IDA-36930; IDA-3693A; ITAL-TF051458)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.1 MILLION
                         (US$11.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        AND

                                       ON AN

                             ITALIAN GRANT (TF051458)

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$8,920,714

                                      TO THE

                      FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA

                                      FOR AN

                   EXPORT FINANCE FACILITATION PROJECT

                                   January 30, 2008


Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
South East Europe
Europe and Central Asia Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective: November 15, 2007)

                       Currency Unit = Serbian Dinar RSD
                               RSD 1.00 = US$0.0188
                              US$1.00 = RSD 53.1039

                                 RSD 1.00 = 0.0128
                                1.00 = RSD 77.9565

                                US$1.00 = 0.683107

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 ­ December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ECA       Export Credit Agency
EFF       Export Finance Facilitation
EXP       Exports
FCI       Factor Chain International
FDI       Foreign direct investment
FRY       Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
IFC       International Financial Corporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
PDO       Project Development Objective
SACE      Italian Export Credit Agency
SaM       State Union of Serbia and Montenegro
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SMECA     Serbia and Montenegro Export Credit Agency
SOE       Socially-owned enterprise
TF        Trust Fund
TOR       Terms of Reference
TSS       Transition Support Strategy
WBI       World Bank Institute


        Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
       Country Director: Jane Armitage
        Sector Director: Fernando Montes-Negret
       Sector Manager: Lalit Raina
      ICR Team Leader: Paula Genis

                  THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
                          Export Finance Facilitation Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 15
 3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating ................................................................ 20
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 22
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 23
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 25
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 28
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 31
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 42
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 47
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 48
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 49
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 50
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 53
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 60
 MAPS

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Export Finance
Country:                Serbia                Project Name:
                                                                    Facilitation Project
                                                                    IDA-36930,IDA-
Project ID:             P074484               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                    3693A,ITAL-51458
ICR Date:               01/31/2008            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     FIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    OF YUGOSLAVIA
Original Total
                        XDR 9.1M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 9.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Serbia & Montnegro Export Credit Agency
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Ministry of Economy and Finance, Italy
Italian Export Credit Agency (SACE)


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/21/2001    Effectiveness:       08/28/2003          08/28/2003
Appraisal:             04/08/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/18/2002    Mid-term Review:     12/31/2005
                                     Closing:             06/30/2007          06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Moderate
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                              QAG Assessments
       Performance              Indicators              (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry
                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          Yes                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other domestic and international trade                          100                  100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Export development and competitiveness                          Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                        Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Jane Armitage                       Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:           Lalit Raina                         Khaled F. Sherif
Project Team Leader:      Paula Genis                         Lloyd Edgecombe
ICR Team Leader:          Paula Genis
ICR Primary Author:       Silvia Minotti



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to support sustainable economic growth
by catalyzing and facilitating trade transactions associated with productive activity in
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). This was to be achieved through the creation of the
Serbia and Montenegro Export Credit Agency (SMECA) that would implement a wide
range of facilities aimed at supporting cross border trade transactions in a sustainable
manner. Progress in achieving the PDO was assessed on the basis of the following key
outcome indicators (from Annex 1 of the PAD):
  (i) the level of production and number of jobs in enterprises benefiting from the
facilities;
  (ii) the value of exports of participating companies; and
  (iii) the value of essential foreign inputs of participating companies.


                                               ii

  Please note the following about the result framework:
  (1) For all indicators, please refer to Sections 1.7, 2.1-2.2, 3 and Annexes 1, 2, and 3 for
more information. As the usage of facilities was determined by demand, these sections
explain what factors shifted demand from some facilities to others to support exports.
  (2) PDO indicator #1 - Number of jobs in the enterprises supported by SMECA:
Information on the number of employees was collected at the time each company
submitted an application to SMECA for facilities. As these dates are different for each
application, the date of commencement of SMECA#s operations was used as the baseline
date.
  (3) Regarding the date of achievement for the intermediate outcome indicators
(facilities),
  -      the date of the baseline value coincides with the date on which SMECA was fully
operational, indicatively around July 1, 2004;
  -      the date of achievement of the original target value coincides with the end of the
second year of SMECA#s operations or June 2006 based on the fact that the PAD
assumed that the project funds would be fully disbursed by the end of the second year
(see Annex 4 of the PAD); and
  -      none of the targets were formally revised, but since a date is required, the closing
date of the project (June 2007) is used.
  (4) Regarding the target and actual values for the intermediate outcome indicators
(facilities),
  -      the original target value coincides with the amount of funds originally allocated
for each facility from the Credit and the Grant; and
  -      the actual value achieved at completion coincides with the amount of funds that
was disbursed from the Credit and Grant to finance each facility (in this regard, it should
be noted that both the Credit and Grant funds were disbursed by the end of the second
year of SMECA#s operations or June 2006 after which the funds were revolving. The
usage of revolving funds is not provided).
  (5) Intermediate Outcome Indicator #7 - SMECA as a self-financing Export Credit
Agency. This indicator was not an indicator included in Annex 1 of the PAD (although it
was monitored during the project implementation). It was added to the result framework
to demonstrate the effect of the project support for SMECA.
  (6) Funds use efficiency ratio was calculated as the volume of exports supported by
each facility divided by disbursements from the Credit and Grant for the same facility
(see Table 5 in Section 3.2). Although these ratios are not 100% comparable, they
provide an indication of the relative efficiency of the facilities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The project development objectives were not revised.




                                               iii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval          Target         Completion or
                                               documents)         Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of jobs in the enterprises supported by SMECA
Value                                                                          11,524 (private
quantitative or 10,948 (private             NA                 Not revised     companies)
Qualitative)    companies)                                                     (+5.3%)
Date achieved 07/01/2004                    06/30/2007         06/30/2007      11/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %        SMECA assisted also companies that were being privatized. These are not

achievement)    included here because job creation was mainly affected by privatization.

Indicator 2 :   Level of production in the enterprises supported by SMECA
Value
quantitative or NA                          NA                 Not revised     NA
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2004                    12/25/2007         06/30/2007      11/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Not measured (see Section 2.3).
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Value of exports supported by project-facilities

Value                                                                          US$2.7 billion

quantitative or US$103.5M                  US$2.1 billion      Not revised     (30% more than

Qualitative)                                                                   target with 70% of
                                                                               the targeted capital)
Date achieved 12/31/2004                    12/25/2007         12/25/2007      11/15/2007

Comments        EXP covered in 06-07 was 12-14% of total EXP of Serbia and Montenegro (it is

(incl. %        almost all of total EXP covered) - important since in 07 their total EXP grew

achievement)    30%, from US$7.1 bn to US$9.2 bn. 93% of US$2.7 bn covered by credit
                insurance (b #4).
Indicator 4 :   Value of essential foreign inputs supported by project-facilities
Value           Zero as SMECA started                                          Euro 922,125,
quantitative or its operations with project NA                 Not revised     reflecting demand
Qualitative)    support.                                                       and other factors
Date achieved 07/01/2004                    06/30/2006         06/30/2007      11/15/2007
Comments        SMECA supported one transaction, permitting the exporter to fulfill an export
(incl. %        contract of US$20M (0.1% of project support to EXP). Funds use efficiency
achievement)    ratio (EXP/ disbursements from the Loan &Grant):14.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)       Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Value of political risk insurance policies issued



                                                iv

Value           Zero as SMECA started                                          Fully reallocated to
(quantitative   its operations with project US$5.5M            Not revised     other facilities, as
or Qualitative) support.                                                       not needed
Date achieved 07/01/2004                    12/31/2006         06/30/2007      11/15/2007
Comments        As the macroeconomic situation improved and a more positive perception
(incl. %        emerged in the international community of the Borrower#s commitment for
achievement)    structural reforms, there was no need for this facility.
Indicator 2 :   Value of working capital loans (WC)/guarantees made

Value           Zero as SMECA started                                          US$9.57 million,

(quantitative   its operations with project US$10.6M           Not revised     reflecting demand

or Qualitative) support.                    (without factoring)                and other factors
                                                                               (with factoring)
Date achieved 07/01/2004                    06/30/2006         06/30/2007      11/15/2007
Comments        This includes factoring - about US$9M and traditional WC loans - Euro 460K.
(incl. %        EXP supported US$50M (2% of project support to EXP). Funds use efficiency
achievement)    ratio (EXP/ disbursements): 5. Funds for guarantees fully reallocated.
Indicator 3 :   Value of contracts bonds issued
Value           Zero as SMECA started                                          US$3M, reflecting
(quantitative   its operations with project US$5 million       Not revised     demand and other
or Qualitative) support.                                                       factors
Date achieved 07/01/2004                    06/30/2006         06/30/2007      11/15/2007
Comments        Value of bonds issued based on revolving funds was US$5.3M. EXP supported:
(incl. %        US$123M (5% of project support to EXP). Funds use efficiency ratio (EXP/
achievement)    disbursements): 41. The remaining funds fully reallocated to other facilities.
Indicator 4 :   Value of contracts covered by credit insurance
Value           Zero as SMECA started
(quantitative   its operations with project US$4.5M            Not revised     US$5.3M
or Qualitative) support.
Date achieved 07/01/2004                    06/30/2006         06/30/2007      11/15/2007
Comments        Issued 52 policies; covered EXP receivables for Euro 308M; insured 563 foreign
(incl. %        buyers from 48 countries; supported EXP for US$2.6 billion (93% of project
achievement)    support to EXP). Funds use efficiency ratio (EXP/ disbursements): 487.
Indicator 5 :   Value of import credit insurance policies issued
Value           Zero as SMECA started                                          Euro 922,125,
(quantitative   its operations with project US$5.6M            Not revised     reflecting demand
or Qualitative) support.                                                       and other factors
Date achieved 07/01/2004                    06/30/2006         06/30/2007      11/15/2007
Comments        Supported one transaction, permitting the exporter to fulfill an export contract of
(incl. %        US$20M (0.1% of project support to EXP). Funds use efficiency ratio (EXP
achievement)    disbursements):14. The remaining funds fully reallocated to other facilities.
Indicator 6 :   Number of credit information reports issued
Value           Zero as SMECA started
(quantitative   its operations with project NA                 NA              361
or Qualitative) support.
Date achieved 07/01/2004                    06/30/2007         06/30/2007      11/15/2007
Comments        SMECA and an Austrian export credit company formed a joint venture in 2007
(incl. %        to provide credit information on Serbian and Montenegrin enterprises. This
achievement)    recognizes that SMECA has been successful in providing credit information.



                                                 v

Indicator 7 :   Number of credit information reports issued
Value           Zero as SMECA started
(quantitative   its operations with project NA                   NA           361
or Qualitative) support.
Date achieved 07/01/2004                    06/30/2007           06/30/2007   11/15/2007
Comments        SMECA and an Austrian export credit company formed a joint venture in 2007
(incl. %        to provide credit information on Serbian and Montenegrin enterprises. This
achievement)    recognizes that SMECA has been successful in providing credit information.
Indicator 8 :   Self-financing capacity of SMECA as an Export Credit Agency
Value           SMECA started its
(quantitative   operations with project     Positive net         Not revised  Positive net income
or Qualitative) support.                    income

Date achieved 07/01/2004                    12/31/2005           06/30/2007   12/31/2006

Comments        SMECA became a self-financing agency and gained the capacity to cover

(incl. %        operational costs and liabilities on its own funds and resources during and at the

achievement)    expiration of the project. It projects to exceed PAD projections for the 5th year of
               operations.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 DO                           IP              Disbursements
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     12/23/2002            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     05/08/2003          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  3     06/24/2003          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  4     12/10/2003            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.00
  5     06/25/2004            Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  6     12/08/2004            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     0.18
  7     06/10/2005            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     4.21
  8     06/27/2006            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    13.36



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                  vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country background. The Export Finance Facilitation (EFF) project was designed to
support the Republics of Serbia and Montenegro within the framework of the then
existent Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY). Wars with the newly independent
neighboring countries (1991-95), the conflict in the Serbian province of Kosovo (1999),
international isolation caused by economic sanctions, and a lack of structural reforms had
severely damaged the economies of Serbia and Montenegro.

Macroeconomic background. The FRY's transition towards a market economy began
under very difficult economic conditions (see Table 1). The Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) per capita had fallen sharply in 1999, and the current account deficit had
significantly deteriorated. In 2002, Serbia's real GDP was only 40% of its 1989 levels
while Montenegro's was 53%. The total industrial output at the end of 2002 was only half
of 1991 output.

Table 1. Macroeconomic indicators on Serbia and Montenegro.
                                                        1999         2000         2002
 GDP (% change in real terms)                           -18.0         5.0          3.8
 Industrial gross output (% change in real terms)       -24.4        11.1          1.7
 Consumer prices (end-year) % change                    36.5        113.5          14.2
 Current account in US$ million                         -764         -327         -1,384
 External debt/GDP in %                                 105.2       164.0          76.1
 External debt/exports of goods and services            500.4       447.7         365.3
 Net foreign direct investment                          112           25           475
 General Government expenditure/GDP in %                 Na          37.6          47.3
 Domestic credit (end-year)/GPD in %                    130.1        58.2         -37.6
 Unemployment/labor force in %                          25.5         25.6          29.0
Source: EBRD Transition Report and Updates 2003-2007.

By 2002 the authorities had already taken impressive steps to stabilize the
macroeconomic situation and initiated structural reforms for a sustained recovery of
output and improved living standards. They included - inter alia - the launch of
privatization and restructuring process, the closure of several problematic banks, and
improvements in the legal and regulatory framework for the banking sector. These
reforms were also intended to improve business environment and foster viable trade
activity.

Background on the export and import sectors. In 2000 exports from the FRY
accounted only for US$1.7 billion compared to US$5.8 billion in 1990. The FRY had
switched from being a net exporter to being a net importer of food and energy. Foreign
trade volumes as a percentage of GDP had declined significantly, and trade deficit was
widening (see Table 2). Limited access to finance, poorly managed banks, high
perception of political risk, poor public infrastructure, and a cumbersome business




                                                1

environment had increased the difficulties for exporters to compete in foreign markets,
regain lost markets, and/or identify new buyers.

         Table 2. Federal Republic of Yugoslavia: External Accounts
                                                         2000     2001    2002
          Exports of goods and services (as % of GDP)     29.6     23.7     20.9
          Imports of goods and services (as % of GDP)     46.5     44.6     44.3
          Current account balance (US$ million)           -327     -528   -1,384
         Source: Official data and IMF estimates.

The bulk of the FRY's real sector was organized as socially-owned enterprises (SOEs).
Enterprises were highly indebted, largely insolvent and accustomed to soft budget
constraints. Furthermore, firms suffered from obsolete machinery and equipment due to
the 1990's decade of international isolation from technological advances.

In 2000 the banking sector - consisting of around 80 banks - was also largely loss-making,
with liquidity problems, and no market orientation. Only few private banks were solvent,
but too small to support a significant number of enterprises on a sustainable basis.

Poor liquidity of banks had reduced access of enterprises to the working capital necessary
to finalize or bid for an export contract. In addition, the lack of market-oriented banks
had resulted in the supply of few banking products which were unable to fulfil the most
basic financing needs of enterprises. For example, exporters are usually required to offer
post-shipment credit terms to offshore buyers in order to be competitive. However,
factoring or discounting of receivables had largely disappeared from the country during
the 1990's, and credit insurance was not available to secure payment. The absence of
factoring and credit insurance further aggravated the financial situation of exporters and
constrained their growth opportunities.

Furthermore, domestic banks did not have the financial status and the credibility
necessary to support exporters in international markets. Foreign companies or banks
would not accept to take a risk of non-payment by a domestic enterprise or bank, thereby
preventing exporting enterprises from importing materials essential to performing export
contracts. In particular, guarantees issued by Serbian and Montenegrin banks were not
deemed acceptable by overseas buyers or bond-giving banks. This was a major constraint
to export activity as exporting enterprises found it difficult to tender for major
construction, capital good supply contracts, or other larger contracts abroad. Finally, the
export credit agency (ECA) of the FRY did not survive the Milosevic period, having been
converted into a commercial bank, thereby depriving exporters and banks of the highly
specialized financial products (such as credit insurance) that are available to all
developed and most developing countries in the world.

Rationale for Bank assistance. The Export Finance Facilitation (EFF) project was
consistent with the 2001 and 2002 Transition Support Strategy (TSS) for the FRY. The
TSS emphasized the need to restore macroeconomic stability and external balance as a
primary objective, facing the FRY authorities on a path to a market economy. In



                                                 2

particular, the TSS emphasized that sustainability of economic growth will depend upon
rebounding of exports. It also recognized that growth will be led by a vibrant private
sector and called for the privatization of all viable SOEs and a comprehensive financial
sector reform. To this end, the project relied upon and reinforced reforms supported
under the Bank's technical assistance projects and adjustment credit for financial and
private sector development 1 . The Bank program assisted with the preparation and
subsequent implementation of the authorities' private and financial sector reform
program which supported privatization and restructuring process of banks and enterprises,
as well as improvements in the investment climate.

The Bank played a catalytic role in assisting the Government in mobilizing donor funds.
A PHRD grant (for US$328,380) helped with the project preparation while
implementation was supported by a grant from the Italian Government in the amount of
US$8.9 million according to the Grant Agreement (TF0514582).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The main Project Development Objective (PDO) was to support sustainable economic
growth by catalyzing and facilitating trade transactions associated with productive
activity in Yugoslavia. This was to be achieved through the creation of the Serbia and
Montenegro Export Credit Agency (SMECA) that would implement a wide range of
facilities (financial products) aimed at supporting cross border trade transactions on a
sustainable basis3. Progress in achieving the PDO was assessed on the basis of the
following key outcome indicators (from Annex 1 of the PAD):
(i) the level of production and number of jobs in enterprises benefiting from the facilities;
(ii) the value of exports of participating companies; and
(iii) the value of essential foreign inputs of participating companies.




1The reference is to the Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant (P074145) and
the Financial Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant (P074127) which were both
approved in mid-2001 and closed in the end of 2004. At the policy level, reforms in the enterprise
and financial sectors were supported through the Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(P074486) which was approved in May 2002 and closed in June 2003.
2This was part of an Italian "programmatic" trust fund for the FRY (TF050164), including this
co-financing grant in the amount of US$8.9 million according to the Grant Agreement (the initial
allocation was 10 million), an allocation of then 1 million through the World Bank Institute
(WBI) (TF051193), and an allocation of then 3 million through the World Bank Consultant
Trust Fund Program (see the Implementation Agreement between the Italian Ministry of
Economy and Finance and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for an
Italian "Programmatic" Trust Fund for the FRY dated June 27, 2002). The TF051193 allocated
through the WBI was to finance specific training activities related to the FRY, especially
programs related to projects co-financed by Italy. The results of the TFs implemented by the WBI
are reported in Annex 8. This ICR does not report on the use of the funds under the Consultant
Trust Fund Program.
3 The self-sustainability goal for SMECA is discussed in the PAD although not explicitly
mentioned in Section A.1 of the PAD. The remaining text under the description of the PDO in the
same Section (i.e., the list of components) is provided in Section 1.5 of the ICR.


                                                  3

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The PDO and the key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The primary target group was the exporting enterprises. They benefited from the project
through improved access to working capital, better credit information, and assistance in
expanding their presence in international markets. This was achieved through the
establishment of SMECA to facilitate exporting enterprises through the following: (i)
guaranteeing and insuring risks associated with trade transactions, (ii) providing financial
support to certain transactions, and (iii) providing credit information on domestic banks
and enterprises and technical assistance to domestic companies in the fields of export
procedures and marketing/match-making with the objective of facilitating entrance in
new markets or regain lost markets.

Secondary beneficiaries included the following: (i) SMECA that received project-funded
technical assistance and capital to become a self-sustainable export credit agency after the
closing of the project, and to contribute to creating a business environment conducive to
enterprise sector development, specifically that of exporting companies, (ii) local and
foreign financial institutions that benefited from the guarantees and insurance policies
issued by (or in partnerships with) SMECA; and (iii) local banks and enterprises that
benefited from more accurate credit risk assessments and, ultimately, more efficient
resource allocation, thanks to SMECA's provision of credit information reports.

1.5 Original Components
The project's components financed:

    (i)     technical assistance to: (a) build SMECA's capacity to perform as a modern
            Export Credit Agency (ECA) and, as such, to provide financial products and
            credit information on domestic entities to support viable import and export
            transactions; and (b) improve the knowledge of domestic exporting enterprises
            in the areas of export procedures and marketing/match-making;
    (ii)    a wide range of facilities (i.e., financial products) offered by SMECA (such as
            insurance policies, loans, and guarantees) to facilitate trade transactions,
            both imports and exports. Each trade facility financed by SMECA represented
            a project component; and
    (iii)   operating costs and goods to support SMECA's operations and project
            implementation.

By doing this, the project supported the establishment of SMECA as a permanent
institution with specialized products typical for an ECA which allowed lenders to allocate
their resources more efficiently and permitted creditworthy enterprises better access to
credit. This enabled domestic exporters to expand their export activity in international
markets, thus promoting growth and job creation.




                                                4

With regard to the financial products, the project supported exports through the following
facilities:
    · Export credit insurance, to cover a seller against the loss arising from the failure
        of a buyer to pay for goods sold and delivered (or services rendered) to that buyer
        whenever the insured seller is not in default under the terms of its contract to
        supply the goods (or render the services);
    · Working capital loans and guarantees, to provide working capital to domestic
        exporting enterprises;
    · Exporter performance insurance, to support all the types of contracts where the
        buyer requires some kind of a guarantee, covering the exporter's performance,
        such as guarantees covering tenders, advance payments, and performance
        obligations by exporters; and
    · Medium term import insurance/guarantees, supporting the import of machinery to
        be associated with export activity.

Imports were to be facilitated through the following facilities:
    · Political risk insurance, to attract foreign entities making investment or extending
        credit to domestic entities, by mitigating their perceived country risk; and
    · Limited comprehensive import credit insurance, to support a domestic enterprise
        to acquire machinery - on medium payment term - predominantly used to produce
        goods for exports, thus facilitating the supply of essential inputs to the Yugoslav
        industry.

SMECA also provided credit information on domestic and foreign exporting enterprises
and financial institutions that facilitated economically viable transactions, both import
and export activities.

1.6 Revised Components
The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
Changes in expected project financing. The project was designed on the basis that
SMECA would have US$31.5 million available for its operations. Despite considerable
efforts in seeking additional funds to sustain SMECA's sound growth, the shortfall of
approximately US$11 million was not made up (see Annex 1). Interest shown by Greek
embassy officials in supporting the project by means of a significant donation from the
Greek Government did not materialize. In addition, project financing suffered from
foreign exchange fluctuations (namely from depreciation of US$ against SDR and Euro),
as well as from a smaller contribution of the Borrower than envisaged (however, the
latter was complemented by SMECA's own funds)4.



4The currency structure was complicated: the IDA Credit was in SDR, the Italian Grant was in
US$ (TF051458; see Footnote 2 in Section 1.1), the Special Accounts for both were in Euro, and
SMECA's accounts were held in RSD and Euro.



                                              5

Reallocations of project funds based on market demand. Several of the facilities were
intended to be temporary only to address the difficult liquidity and financial situation in
Serbia and Montenegro at the time the project was designed. In order to satisfy the
evolving market demand for SMECA's facilities, the Bank management approved
reallocations of funds during the project implementation (see Annex 1). In particular, the
lack of demand for political risk insurance and working capital guarantees freed up
resources to finance other export support facilities (see Section 2.2). In addition,
SMECA's diligent and efficient management and their sound knowledge and experience
of export credit insurance enabled reallocation of funds originally allocated to finance
operating costs, technical assistance, and goods to support SMECA's financial products.
The reallocated funds were fully disbursed.

Extension of the effectiveness date of the project and commencement of SMECA's
operations. The project was appraised in February 2002, approved by the Board in July
2002, and became effective in August 2003, one year later than estimated after two
extensions of the effectiveness date approved by the Bank management. Delays in
effectiveness were due to: (i) the political hiatus caused by the transition from the FRY to
the Union of Serbia and Montenegro; and (ii) political difficulties inside the Republic of
Serbia which resulted in delays in dealing with issues related to the fulfillment of the
conditions for the project effectiveness           5 . After effectiveness, SMECA started
implementation immediately and became fully operational towards the end of the first
half of 2004, following recruitment of the full complement of staff and the signing of a
re-insurance treaty with a major European re-insurer. This was two years later than
initially estimated (see Section 2.2).

Extension of the closing date of the Italian Grant (TF051458) co-financing the
project. The Bank approved an extension of the closing date of the Italian Grant from
August 31, 2005 to June 30, 2006. This extension allowed SMECA to continue to use the
Grant proceeds to finance its operating costs (see Section 2.2)6.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Soundness of the background analysis. The project was based on sound background
analysis, incorporated lessons from other countries, and had a strong rationale for the
Bank's intervention. This positively affected project implementation. The design was
guided by technical assessment of the financial conditions of local banks, including the
range of financial products available in the market, as well as an analysis of the financing
needs of domestic exporters to better evaluate potential demand for export-tailored



5These included ­ inter alia ­ the approval of the Project Agreement through which the FRY
transferred to SMECA the ownership of the IDA Credit and Italian Grant on a non-refundable
basis (which allowed the capitalization of SMECA).
6It also allowed the completion of the training program administered by the WBI (TF051193)
which started later than originally envisaged due to the delays in fulfilling conditions for the
effectiveness of the Credit (and the Italian Grant) (see Annex 8).


                                                  6

financing products (such as credit insurance). It also took into consideration the various
political levels of the FRY and possible changes in the geopolitical situation, including a
potential split of Serbia and Montenegro7. The analysis reflected lessons and experiences
of other countries of the region (Bosnia Herzegovina, Slovenia, Albania) and outside the
region (the United Kingdom, Czech Republic) in supporting trade transactions on a
sustainable basis. It also stressed the importance for Government export credit agencies
(ECA) to operate in the short-term credit insurance segment according to market
principles (i.e., without burdening the state budget) in line with the World Trade
Organization principles and European Union recommendations.

Based on these assessments, the lessons reflected in the project included the following:
(i) the recognition that exporters have specific financing needs that are best satisfied with
specialized financial products (such as export credit insurance or exporter performance
insurance); (ii) the need for specialized financial institutions (i.e., ECAs) to provide the
financial products necessary to fulfill exporters' specific financing needs which are
difficult to fulfill in the presence of a banking system under a significant restructuring
and privatization process; (iii) the extensive experience elsewhere about the importance
and the difficulties of properly addressing governance issues in public financial
institutions that lend to the enterprise sector; (iv) the importance of ensuring that the ECA
is sufficiently capitalized so as to gain the financial status and credibility necessary to
support domestic exporters in international markets8; (v) the need for a critical mass of
exporters and trade transactions to justify the establishment of a viable ECA; and (vi) the
recognition that, for a small economy like Montenegro, it would have been difficult to
reach the economies of scale necessary to operate an ECA on a self-sustainable basis, and
the consequent decision to support the establishment of an ECA representing both
republics, according to the Bosnian model.

There was a strong rationale for the Bank's intervention. In addition to the Bank's
expertise, the Bank's presence was intended to assist SMECA establish itself as a
credible institution in the domestic and foreign markets. The Bank's supervision and
expert advice was also aimed at contributing to stronger market orientation of SMECA's
operations, increased transparency of operations and decisions, and sound governance
rules and internal control mechanisms. Finally, the intervention of the Bank was aimed at
assisting in mobilization of donor funds for the preparation and implementation of the
project.




7This occurred in June 2006 as a result of a referendum for independence in Montenegro. The
FRY was first transformed into the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro (SaM) in February
2003. In 2006, Serbia and Montenegro became two completely independent countries, with
Serbia inheriting much of the political infrastructure of the SaM.
8The Credit and Grant funds were used to capitalize SMECA (i.e., transferred to the balance
sheet of SMECA to back up its obligations) rather than administered by SMECA on behalf of the
Government. At the closing date of the project, Serbia and Montenegro owned, respectively,
91.7% and 8.3% of SMECA's capital based on the disbursements of project funds (see Annex 1).


                                                  7

Assessment of the project design. The design of the project positively contributed to the
implementation and outcome of the project. With regards to the objective and
components, the identified objective ("supporting sustainable economic growth") was too
broad as many exogenous factors beyond the project could influence it, but the
intermediate outcome ("catalyzing and facilitating trade transactions associated with
productive activity in Yugoslavia") was well defined and the design of the components
was linked to it. As such, the project objective was relevant and important for the country,
and consistent with the Government's plans and objectives (see Section 1.1).

The project design stressed the importance of elements, such as the following:
· Demand-driven financial products, to respond to exporters' various financial needs
    and to reflect the changing capacity of domestic and foreign banks to absorb credit
    risks and/or take risks associated with a productive activity in Serbia and Montenegro.
    (see Section 1.7).
· Quality due diligence, credit assessment and portfolio management (guided by the
    Operational Manuals), to ensure that the prospects of the ECA, preserving its capital
    so as to have the capacity to continually provide its services, were enhanced.
· "First come first served" principle for facility applications, to avoid any preferential
    treatment to particular applicants.
· Sound governance arrangements, to ensure a transparent and professional decision
    making process and a reasonable measure of operational independence, including the
    establishment of a Credit Committee to decide upon applications, a Supervisory
    Board to review the financial probity of the agency and its operations, a system to
    monitor and apportion activities between Serbia and Montenegro, and a requirement
    that the composition of the Management Board consists of a majority of
    representatives from the private sector.

The following other examples demonstrate the positive contribution of the design to the
satisfactory implementation and achievement of the project objectives. The full
disbursement of the Credit and Grant proceeds ahead of the closing date of the project
was a sign that the project was well-designed; that its complexity was at acceptable
levels; that project components and activities were fully in line with the needs of the
domestic exporting and financial sectors; and that SMECA had acquired the capacity to
operate as a modern ECA. The law establishing SMECA was also well structured and
provided a good basis for successful project implementation. SMECA's law, its statute
and relevant sections of the project's Operational Manuals - none of which could be
changed without the Bank's approval - devoted particular attention to the governance
structure and issues, such as responsibilities and accountabilities of the bodies of the
agency (General Director, Management and Supervisory Boards; see above). This helped
SMECA establish a reputation in the market place as a sound, transparent and market-
oriented institution. Finally, the fact that the project was able to mobilize a significant
amount of grant funds for both the financial facilities and technical assistance was
another recognition of a good design (see Sections 1.1 and 1.7).

Adequacy of the Government commitment. Overall, the project benefited from strong
commitment of the Government during the preparation phase. This enabled establishment



                                              8

of SMECA through a special law9 that would provide for the functioning of SMECA as a
modern ECA, with clear accountability and responsibility lines, strong provisions on
conflicts of interest and sound governance arrangements. The Government recognized the
importance of technically skilled personnel and selected SMECA's directors and
managers among the best experts in the field of finance and insurance available in the
market. This contributed to SMECA's sound management and helped in building a good
reputation in the market place.

Assessment of risks. The project was designed to mitigate, as much as possible, risks
related to weak implementation capacity, poor lending and, more in general, business
environment (e.g., inadequate collateral law and enforcement procedures, causing high
levels of non-performing loans), and SMECA's difficulties to establish itself as a
reputable and credible ECA. Mitigation measures envisaged in the project were
satisfactory, as demonstrated by the fact that SMECA became a self-sustainable
institution, with a good quality portfolio, a standing in the international financial
community, including the Prague Club and the international association of ECAs from
Eastern and Central Europe10. In particular, good governance rules and arrangements -
which were covered under SMECA's law, statute and the project's Operational Manuals -
were successful, among other things, in ensuring an independent decision making process.

The project was designed to support the establishment of an ECA at the Federal level,
representing both republics. During the project preparation, it appeared unlikely that there
would have been adequate economies of scale for Montenegro to operate its own export
credit agency. The small size of its economy and the related potential demand for export
facilities were too small to justify the establishment of a separate agency. In addition,
although at the time of project preparation the two republics were still part of the FRY,
the project was designed to take into consideration any eventual dissolution of the FRY at
the closing date of the project or earlier. In doing this, the project incorporated lessons
learnt from a similar project in Bosnia Herzegovina, covering both the Federation and
Srpska Republic. In this regard, the project design was guided by the principle of fairness
between the republics in the use of funds during project implementation (i.e., all the
export facility applications were treated on a first-served-basis without distinguishing
which republic was the source of the activity); in the ownership of funds at the closing or
earlier termination of the project (based on the proportionate use of funds made by each
republic), and in the formula for the repayment obligation of the Credit by the republics
according to which each republic was responsible for the proportion of funds used at the
closing date or earlier termination.




9 SMECA was established by a special law approved on January 18, 2002, by the FRY
Parliament (Official Gazette of the FRY, n.3, dated on January 18, 2002) and registered at the
commercial court of Belgrade on August 13, 2002).
10The Prague Club is a sub-sector of the Berne Union, the major association of ECAs. The
Prague Club consists of ECAs that at the time of commencement of their operations were not
eligible for membership of the Berne Union due to their inadequate size.


                                              9

2.2 Implementation
Factors outside the control of Government or implementing agencies
Lack of donor interest in increasing SMECA's capital up to the level identified during
appraisal did not impede the sound development of SMECA's short-term marketable
credit insurance portfolio during the project life. Despite considerable efforts in seeking
additional donor funds, the shortfall of approximately US$11 million was not made up
(see Section 1.7 and Annex 1). In spite of this, SMECA's short-term marketable credit
insurance portfolio developed along satisfactory lines and experienced rapid growth
during project implementation (see Section 3.2 and Annex 2) (however, additional capital
would be required shortly if the portfolio is to continue to expand on a sound basis).

The Bank approval for extension of the closing date of the Italian Grant (TF05145811)
and for reallocation of project funds helped smooth implementation of the project (see
Section 1.7 and Annex 1). The extension of the closing date of the Italian Grant helped
SMECA finance its operating costs during implementation. Furthermore, reallocation of
funds allowed SMECA to promptly adjust to changing financial needs of exporters and
satisfy actual market demand for export support (see Section 3.2, Annexes 1 and 2).

SMECA benefited from strong support from the National Bank of Serbia and the Central
Bank of Montenegro. This helped SMECA consolidate its good reputation in the market
place. The regulatory authorities recognized the important role of SMECA in providing
specialized financial products unavailable in the local market and referred exporters to
SMECA. They also agreed to give local banks that avail themselves of SMECA's
working capital guarantees zero risk weighting for capital adequacy purposes on their
balance sheets for any guaranteed amount.

Poor transparency and financial information disclosure by enterprises, inability of some
companies to offer a collateral together with high standard of due diligence followed by
SMECA resulted in lower than anticipated disbursements from some facilities (see
Section 3.2, Annexes 1 and 2). This concerned, especially, the facilities for working
capital loans and guarantees, import credit insurance and medium-term import
guarantees. Weaknesses in the business environment, including difficulties in contract
enforcement and poor collateral regime, made it difficult for SMECA to support imports
of machinery and equipment. In case of medium term import facility, SMECA's terms
were significantly more favorable to the borrower than transactions supported by ECAs
in the supplier country and at least no more expensive compared to medium term loans
supported locally through local banks or international financial institutions, such as
EBRD and IFC, so competitiveness was not an issue. In case of short term credit
insurance for imports, only a few inquiries were received and none of these proceeded.
One of the problems for the few transactions involved, apart from the credit worth of the
buyer, was the small size of the transactions for Lloyd's of London syndicates whose
support was required since the insured would have been foreign suppliers that would be
unlikely to have accepted SMECA's indemnity.



11TF051193 allocated through the WBI was also extended.


                                             10

Other factors can also explain the lower than envisaged demand for the exporter
performance insurance facility in support of large exporting contracts for construction
work. This component supported domestic exporters in performing large contracts,
particularly construction work and engineering design services, which represent sectors
where domestic companies have traditionally been strong. The lower than anticipated
demand for this facility was probably due to the parlous condition of numerous Serbian
companies that had performed international construction work before the Milosovic
period, but which were unable to revive their activity due to obsolete capital equipment
and a loss of skilled and experienced workers. It could be that Serbian companies were
unable to complete their restructuring and modernization process and regain access to lost
construction markets. Additionally, those enterprises that retain capacity to perform this
type of work have been occupied in local construction work where demand has been
particularly high in recent years, as the economy recovers and grows vigorously.

Credit insurance is the core activity of modern ECAs in the emerging countries of the
region. In case of SMECA, credit insurance developed faster than anticipated due to a
number of factors, such as: (i) the emphasis which senior management of SMECA placed
upon this facility compared with other facilities and the skills and experience of senior
management in marketing the facility; (ii) success in obtaining several large accounts,
including the United States Steel; and (iii) the fact that factoring was available for most
accounts in the initial stages only if the exporter took out credit insurance. The insurance
portfolio of SMECA at this time is diverse and not dependent upon factoring, but the
availability of post-shipment finance along with credit insurance was an important factor
in making exporters understand the benefits of export credit insurance in the early stages
of launching the facility.

It should be noted that export credit insurance takes a long time to develop in countries
that are not used to this type of facility. The initial projection for SMECA on export
credit insurance was based on the fact that it takes a decade for a start-up agency to
achieve maturity and the project was limited to five years. It was estimated that other
facilities, such as import of essential raw materials and machinery, would be in demand
in the early years of the post-Milosovic years and export credit insurance would take
longer to develop. In the end, the transitional period was shorter than anticipated. During
the delayed effectiveness and launching of the operations of SMECA, the circumstances
changed and demand shifted with the transition period completed.

Factors generally subject to Government control
Political instability and hiatus caused by the transition from the FRY to the Union of
Serbia and Montenegro together with political difficulties within the republics resulted in
delays in project effectiveness and launching of operations (see Section 1.7). While the
project was declared effective in August 2003, one year after the Board approval, and
SMECA started implementation immediately after effectiveness, it became fully
operational towards the end of the first half of 2004, following recruitment of the full
complement of staff and the signing of a re-insurance treaty with a major European re-
insurer. Due to the effectiveness delay, the PDO and implementation progress ratings in




                                             11

the Bank's internal reports were temporarily downgraded to unsatisfactory in 2003. This
delay did not affect the overall outcome of the project.

Delays in effectiveness and launching of operations led to a delay in starting
disbursements of the Credit (see Section 1.7). According to the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD), disbursements from the Credit Account were estimated to be
completed in about one year from effectiveness estimated to be in mid-2002. However,
effectiveness did not occur until August 2003 and, while implementation started
immediately after effectiveness, SMECA was fully operational only in the middle of
2004 and made its first disbursements from the Credit Account in the end of 2004. For
this reason the project was "at risk" for disbursement. Despite the delayed launch, full
disbursement of the IDA and Italian Grant (TF051458) took place about one year ahead
of the closing, by June 2006, and two years after SMECA became fully operational (see
Annex 1).

Progress in stabilizing the macroeconomic situation and in implementing structural
reforms in the banking and enterprise sector and business environment, and a more
positive perception amongst the international community of commitment by the Serbian
and Montenegrin Governments to structural reforms contributed to reducing the demand
for certain financial products, such as political risk insurance and working capital credits,
by the time SMECA was able to commence operations (see Section 3.2, Annexes 1 and
2). Progress in the restructuring and privatization of the banking sector may have
improved access to traditional working capital financing faster than expected12. The
availability of insurance to banks from state-owned Serbian insurance corporations
against borrower default under bank loans may have been another factor in reducing
demand for working capital facilities. There may have been other factors. Nevertheless,
by the time SMECA commenced operations, demand for these facilities - that do not
represent the core activity of ECAs - had vanished, while demand for highly specialized
export-tailored financial products, such as export credit insurance and factoring, had
increased more than expected.

The Serbian Government (that took office in March 2004) indicated its dissatisfaction
with an agency representing both Serbia and Montenegro and its inability to control the
policies and strategies of SMECA. This created some uncertainty about the future of
SMECA. The Serbian Government requested the Bank to restructure the project to
transform SMECA into the ECA of Serbia only and/or to increase the influence of the
Serbian Government in SMECA's activities by changing the composition of the
Management Board from one with a majority of representatives of the private sector to



12The working capital loan facility represents the major area of activity of the ECA of Bosnia-
Herzegovina (Enterprise Export Finance Facility for Bosnia and Herzegovina, P062936) where
the Investment Guarantee Agency has made more than 300 working capital loans. Due to the
Bank's experience under this project, disbursement for working capital loans was expected to be
significant in the early phase of project implementation, then to decrease in parallel with the
restructuring and privatization of the banking sector, to ultimately vanish once banks had
adequate risk assessment capacity and liquidity to fulfill working capital needs of exporters.


                                               12

that with wholly Government employees. The Bank declined this request as it would have
deprived Montenegro of specialized export support and would have weakened the
operational independence of the agency. The Government of Serbia then decided to
create a rival institution for Serbia alone, the Export Credit and Insurance Agency of the
Republic of Serbia called AOFI13. No actions were taken to interfere with the operations
of SMECA, but the existence of the new agency created uncertainty inside SMECA and
also some confusion in the business and financial community about the role of the two
entities and their relationship. Notwithstanding, SMECA continued to carry out its
mandate with unchanged commitment and professionalism. During this time, the
implementation progress rating in the Bank's internal report was temporarily downgraded
to unsatisfactory in mid-2004. A new risk was added for the project in the Bank's internal
reporting, reflecting the politically difficult situation being faced by SMECA, and it was
rated as high.

Factors subject to implementing agency control
Effective management and genuine commitment helped in building a team of
professionals able to operate successfully. SMECA remained focused on its institutional
mandate despite adverse political circumstances and intermittent political support.
SMECA's management was effective in selecting good quality staff and in taking the
maximum benefit from any technical assistance program. In addition, the sound
knowledge and experience of SMECA's management enabled SMECA to reduce
considerably the amount paid for technical assistance and reallocate it for facilities.
Project implementation was efficient and progressed satisfactorily, once launched.
Consequently, qualifications and commitment of the staff helped SMECA receive
recognition among domestic and foreign enterprises and financial institutions as a
credible market player.

An increased visibility in the international arena helped SMECA build a good reputation
in the market place and a stronger credibility in the eyes of domestic enterprises (see
Section 3.5 (b)). SMECA was successful in establishing strong ties with foreign financial
institutions, including the syndicates of the London insurance market, leading European
banks, and other ECAs14. It also gained memberships to important international sectoral



13AOFI was established for the "promotion of national exports" by a law approved in July 2005
and with an initial capital of 25 million. AOFI has been a member of the Prague Club since
November 2006. It became a member of Factor Chain International in January 2008. Whilst
AOFI is authorized to provide a similar range of activities to SMECA, de facto, AOFI has
established itself more as a bank that focuses on short-term lending rather than as an export credit
agency that offers export-tailored contingent liability products (such as credit insurance and
exporter performance insurance). AOFI currently provides export insurance against commercial
risks and short-term loans either directly to the exporter or through a bank. In addition, AOFI
charges interest rates on terms that are more favorable than those charged by commercial banks
(mainly because AOFI is not subject to the mandatory 45% reserve requirements for commercial
banks).
14SMECA signed cooperation agreements with the ECA of Italy, Bulgaria, the Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia, Iran, Slovakia, and Russia.


                                                13

associations, such as the Prague Club of the Berne Union and Factor Chain International,
the largest network of factoring companies.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E design. The project devoted attention to the establishment of sound M&E systems
and capacity to monitor progress towards the achievement of the PDO, as well as of
SMECA's institutional mandate. The M&E put in place was very well suited and
designed to measure the success of SMECA fulfilling its institutional mandate on a self-
sustainable basis (i.e., beyond the project implementation period). SMECA also installed
an IT system to promptly display all the relevant information related to the status of
transactions and project-supported facilities. The M&E design was, however, not suited
to measure the outcomes. For example, the "level of production in enterprises benefiting
from the facilities" was not designed in a detailed fashion and not measured. Moreover,
"the level of jobs in enterprises benefiting from the facilities" can be affected by many
factors outside the scope of the project15. SMECA submitted reports to the Bank on a
regular basis. The M&E rating was satisfactory through the project implementation.

M&E implementation. SMECA has acquired the capacity to collect and evaluate a
range of important information by using a number of different sources. This allowed
SMECA to produce good quality and reliable information on the implementation
progress based on various indicators. SMECA's annual reports are the product of
methodological M&E arrangements and sound analysis. The establishment of a company
for the provision of financial information in partnership with the Austrian ECA is
recognition that SMECA has been successful in implementing sound and sustainable
M&E systems (see Annex 2).

M&E utilization. SMECA uses the M&E system in the day-to-day activity to guide its
decision making process, risk exposure, and better allocate resources (see "M&E
design").

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Both the Credit and the Grant financed activities were implemented in compliance with
the Bank policy and procedural requirements on procurement, disbursement, and
financial management. Financial management and procurement were rated satisfactory



15In one or two trade transactions supported the correlation is obvious. For example, Planum, the
company that won the contract in Morocco could not have been awarded the contract without
SMECA's intervention. No other institution in Serbia could have supported bond values of that
magnitude except perhaps a foreign owned bank with the assistance of its parent but that would
have been very unlikely. It is easy to calculate the man hours involved in performance of that
contract. A similar correlation can be drawn from factoring. There is no doubt that factoring has
been a major factor in some of SMECA's clients' expansion and job creation. These are the
companies that have few fixed assets and therefore are unable to borrow working capital. On the
other hand it is impossible to come to the conclusion that credit insurance is wholly responsible
for creating jobs. There are certain benefits in using credit insurance and it is reasonable to say
that these benefits were factors in the growth, but there are other more important factors involved.


                                                 14

throughout the life of the project. A Financial Monitoring Report covering the whole
period of disbursement was submitted to the Bank; financial management issues were
addressed properly; annual audits never reported major issues; and SMECA established a
good working relationship and communication with the Financial Management Specialist
based in Belgrade. Regular financial management supervision of the project was
conducted by the Bank Financial Management Specialist. No significant deviation from
the Bank safeguards fiduciary policies and procedures was recorded during
implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Transition arrangements for post-project operations. The project was intended to
establish SMECA as a permanent and self-sustainable institution, capable of supporting
exporting companies with specialized financial products/services. SMECA is a self-
financing institution able to sustain its operations and adequate staffing and management
from its own funds. Thus, no transition arrangement is necessary. However, in order to
further strengthen SMECA's financial status and consolidate its credibility in domestic
and foreign markets, SMECA should secure additional funds for its financial products.
Adequate capital is necessary to back up obligations, follow sound underwriting and
prudent lending practices, and pay valid claims promptly. Additional capital would be
necessary to sustain SMECA's growth, particularly for the credit insurance facility16.

Follow-up by the Bank. Currently the Government of Serbia is exploring the option of
merging SMECA and AOFI; no decision has been made on the detailed institutional set-
up. If this merger maintains the institutional independence of SMECA and AOFI, such
merger could benefit both institutions. If, instead, the merger does not, this could severely
compromise the benefits accrued through the project. The Bank is advising the
Government of Serbia on the best institutional set-up to ensure that the two entities
maintain their operational independence, while rationalizing their activities (e.g., one
could be a subsidiary of the other). In addition, the Government of Serbia has been asking
further Bank assistance to capitalize the new entity, so that it can continue to grow and
facilitate trade.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The objectives, design and implementation of the project continue to have relevance for
the economic development of Serbia and Montenegro. The project design reflected a
proper diagnosis of a development priority that remains relevant, namely the importance
of creating a larger, more dynamic private sector through improvements in the business
environment, including access to finance. The Bank's assistance strategy for Serbia and
Montenegro (FY05-07 CAS) was anchored in the country programs and supported this
goal.


16While SMECA's capital amounted to US$20.4 million, the project was designed under the
assumption that SMECA's capital would reach about US$29 million during its early stage of
development.


                                             15

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The project catalyzed and facilitated trade transactions more than expected, as
demonstrated below. In addition, the project built SMECA's capacity to operate on a self-
financing basis as, based on its increased and efficient operations, SMECA is able to
provide specialized financial products in support of exports from Serbia and Montenegro;
it has realized a net income since 2006 (see Table 6 and Annex 3); it has kept its capital
intact; and it is recognized as a credible and solid institution both in domestic and foreign
markets.

This said, it is not possible to assess the project's contribution to sustainable economic
growth (the PDO) or to changes in the level of production and employment in the
exporting companies (outcome indicators) due to the difficulty of attributing them
entirely to the project, as well as due to the vagueness of the definition "level of
production" and lack of data on it (see Section 2.3). The ICR provides some data on the
changes in employment in the exporting companies, but in most cases it is difficult to say
how much the project contributed to the changes.

SMECA's overall contribution to increased exports is demonstrated by the following:

· The project was successful in building an ECA capable of supporting an increasing
    volume of exports (see Figure 1 and Table 3). Over the past two years, the share of
    exports supported by SMECA represented about 12-14% of the total exports of Serbia
    and Montenegro compared to about 3% in 2004. This is significant considering that
    in 2007 Serbia's and Montenegro's total exports grew by 30%, from US$7.1 billion
    to US$9.2 billion.
· Based on comparison with other ECAs in the region, 12-14% share of exports is high
    for a start-up agency like SMECA. Generally, in developing countries where there is a
    lot of traditional commodity trade, a mature agency usually covers only a few
    percent. In emerging European countries a reasonable benchmark would be about
    10% after ten years17. SMECA has therefore performed well in covering about 12-
    14% of exports after about three years of operations.
· The cumulative volume of exports supported by SMECA totaled US$2.7 billion
    which is 30% more than estimated at appraisal based on 70% of the capital that was
    expected to be provided to SMECA at appraisal (see Annex 3). Comparing with the
    targets, the exports supported by SMECA grew from US$103 million in 2004 to
    projected US$1.2 billion in 2007, exceeding the estimated targets for each year (see
    Table 3 and Annex 3).




17The two most successful agencies in the region are SID of Slovenia and EGAP of the Czech
Republic where the percentage of cover is more than 10%, but they have been around for more
than 13 years. Assuming that SMECA maintains its human capital, SMECA can reasonably be
expected to grow and develop along similar lines to successful agencies in the region, such as
SID and EGAP.


                                             16

Figure 1. Export supported by SMECA as a percentage of the total exports of
Serbia and Montenegro



         8.000.000.000



         3.000.000.000
    $
     US
         2.000.000.000         2004 (*)                 2005                  2006                   2007



         7.000.000.000



        12.000.000.000


                                                E xports     Trade balance    S ME C A's  support

(*) For 2004 data refer to Serbia only.
Source: SMECA and official estimates and Bank calculations.

Table 3. Trade supported by SMECA during project implementation (US$)

                                                       2004 (*)          2005              2006          2007
Imports                                           10.753.000.000 11.649.947.220 14.981.180.580 19.404.457.333
E xports                                           3.720.000.000     5.042.990.560   7.193.401.200    9.254.025.067
Trade balance                                      7.033.000.000 6.606.956.660 7.787.779.380 10.150.432.266
E xports supported by S ME C A                        103.500.000      508.700.000       984.019.409  1.150.125.580
E xports supported by S ME C A as a %  of total 
exports of S erbia and Montenegro                           2,78%          10,09%             13,68%        12,43%
(*) Data refer to S erbia only
S ource : S erbia and Montenegro official data and Bank calculations


· The share of exports supported by SMECA also represents basically the percentage
       of all exports covered by credit insurance in these countries as SMECA is the main
       player in the export credit insurance in Serbia and the only one in Montenegro
       (AOFI's portfolio in export insurance in Serbia is small).
· Exports supported by SMECA can be analyzed in terms of facilities that were on
       most demand, exporting industries supported, and exports supported by countries.
       The export credit insurance facility accounted for 93% of the total exports supported
       by the project (see Table 5). This is consistent with the activities of modern export
       credit agencies in which short term credit insurance should be the core activity,
       particularly, in the emerging countries of the region which do not have large capital
       goods sectors (see Section 2.2). With regards to the exporting industries supported,
       about 90% of the trade transactions supported by SMECA in 2005-2006 originated
       from the metal industry (this industry dominates the overall export in Serbia and
       Montenegro), followed by building construction and export of foodstuff (in case of
       Serbia). The structure of export by countries did not change considerably. The main
       buyers are from the EU countries which participated 44% in 2002 and approximately
       50% in 2007. Central European Countries participated 42% in 2002 and
       approximately 35% in 2007. The balance belongs to other countries.



                                                          17

SMECA's contribution to imports. SMECA supported one import transaction for exports
(the outcome indicator "value of essential foreign inputs of participating exporting
companies"). Nevertheless, SMECA's support was particularly relevant as it permitted
the exporter to fulfill the obligations of an export contract of about US$20 million (see
Annex 2).

Employment changes in participating exporting enterprises. From the participating
exporting enterprises, both private enterprises and those in the process of privatization18
experienced a positive impact on employment although there was an overall reduction of
employment by 1.4% (see Table 4 and Annex 2). However, the positive impact on
employment in enterprises supported by SMECA that were in the process of privatization
was not enough to offset the process of shedding of surplus labor that usually
accompanies the privatization process (see Table 14 in Annex 2). Private companies that
benefited from SMECA's support raised the number of employees from 10,948 to 11,524,
representing a 5.3% job gain. In the other cases, the privatization process resulted in job
losses of about 20%, but this is an exogenous factor to the project.

Table 4. Employment in exporting companies supported by SMECA


                                                                    At start (*)  November 2007 E mployment growth 
Total employees in private companies                                  10948          11524             5,3%
Total employees in privatizing/privatized companies                    3699           2917            21,1%
Total employees in companies supported by S ME C A                    14647          14441            1,4%
(*) At the time the company submitted an application for S ME C A's facilities 
Source: SMECA.

Contribution of facilities to increased exports supported by SMECA. The usage of
facilities and their contribution to increased exports evolved based on demand and other
factors (see Table 5 and Annex 2). As a core activity of an ECA, the export credit
insurance facility accounted for 93% of the project's support to exports and stood out
from the other facilities in most efficient use of funds. While other facilities supported
substantial amounts of exports, their share of the total export supported by the project
remained low (from 0-5%) compared to the high volume supported by the export credit
insurance. The share of exporter performance insurance and factoring facilities were next
largest from the total exports supported by the project. The exporter performance
insurance and medium term imports guarantee facilities provided the next best efficiency in
the use of funds although their ratios were considerably lower than that of the credit
insurance.




18 SMECA supported a total of 39 exporting companies, out of which 34 were privately owned
(88%) while the remaining ones (12%) were enterprises that had entered or completed the
privatization process. Employees in these latter companies accounted for 25% of the total
employees working in the enterprises supported by SMECA.


                                                              18

Table 5. Estimated vs. actual volume of exports supported by the project facilities
and efficiency of use of funds (in US$ equivalent)
                                                                Efficiency of use         Share of
                            Estimated            Actual         of Credit/Grant       contribution to
                             exports            exports          funds (exports      increased exports
                          supported in       supported in          supported/           (exports by
                            2004-2007       2004-2007 (*)       disbursements)          facility/total
                                                                       (**)               exports/)
 Political risk
 insurance                 10,451,378               0                   NA                   NA

 Working capital
 loans and factoring       75,356,966          49,466,628                5                   2%
 (***)
 Working capital
 guarantees               506,556,824               0                   NA                   NA

 Exporter
 performance              655,487,266        122,888,852                41                   5%
 insurance facility
 Credit insurance
 (export)                  99,395,667       2,555,960,109               487                 93%

 Medium term
 imports                  800,717,875          19,481,162               14                   0%
 guarantee/insurance
 Total                    2,147,965,976 2,747,796,751                   143                 100%
 (*) As of November 15, 2007.
 (**) Although ratios are not 100% comparable, they provide an indication of the relative efficiency of
 the facilities.
 (***) The target is for working capital loans. The actual includes factoring (US$45,276,842) and
 working capital loans (US$4,189,786).
Source: SMECA and PAD.

On SMECA as a self-financing entity. SMECA was established because of the fact that
there was no ECA in the country and therefore it was the first and only institution to offer
export credit insurance which was not available at that time. Today SMECA remains the
institution providing a majority of export credit insurance in Serbia (AOFI provides short
term credit insurance and factoring, but the portfolios are small) and the only one in
Montenegro. SMECA is a successful institution generating an operating surplus after
claims and growing its insurance portfolio at a fast pace (see Table 6 and Annex 3).
SMECA realized a net income of 0.56 million at the end of 2006, once its activity had
picked up. The year 2007 is expected to close with a net income of 0.66 million.
Projections for 2008 show that SMECA is expected to consolidate is financial solidity
and earn a net income of about 1.2million. Thus, based on increased and efficient
operations, SMECA developed the capacity to cover its costs and liabilities with its own
resources and funds.




                                                    19

Table 6. SMECA's Actual Costs and Revenues in  (End of year data)
                                2004            2005             2006            2007             2008
                                                                               (Proj*)          (Est**)
 Revenues                         35,613        734,219        2,012,104       3,212,618         6,334,400
 Operating costs                 626,261       1,007,994       1,451,771       2,553,759         5,122,280
 Net Income                     -590,648        -273,775         560,333         658,859         1,212,120
 (*) Estimates for the last month of the year 2007 are a projection based on the actual data for the first 11
 months of the year.
 (**) "Normal scenario" (i.e. SMECA grows according to the projections of its business plan
Source: SMECA and Bank's estimates. SMECA's accounts are held in RSD and .

3.3 Efficiency
SMECA implemented the project in an efficient and cost-effective manner, considering
the volume of trade supported compared to the estimates and SMECA's ability to grow
into a self-financing ECA (see Annex 3). Compared to the appraisal estimates of trade
supported by the project, the project achieved better results than estimated by investing a
smaller amount of funds than expected. By the end of 2007 the volume of trade
transactions supported by SMECA will be 30% higher than estimated (US$2.7 million
versus US$2.1 million) based on 70% of the capital expected to finance its facilities
(about US$20 million versus US$29 million). The total trade supported by SMECA since
2004 represented over 10% of the total exports of Serbia and Montenegro.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The achievement of the PDO ("supporting sustainable economic growth") cannot be
assessed due to the difficulty of attribution or lack of data. However, the extent to which
the project's "intermediate" objective ("facilitated and catalyzed trade transactions") was
achieved efficiently was satisfactory based on the following (see Sections 3.1-3.3 and
Annexes 2 and 3):

· It is broadly relevant for the Government and for the CAS for FY04-07 in supporting
    private sector growth, particularly, improvements in business environment, including
    in access to finance.
· The project helped build a viable ECA capable of catalyzing and facilitating an
    increased volume of export transactions, accounting for 12-14% of the total exports
    of Serbia and Montenegro in 2006-2007 (practically all that was covered) in
    circumstances where in 2007 Serbia's and Montenegro's total exports grew by 30%.
    SMECA performed well given the fact that in emerging European countries a
    reasonable benchmark would be about 10% coverage after ten years, while SMECA
    has been fully operational for about three years.
· The project was cost-effective and efficient demonstrated by the facts that (a) the
    actual exports supported by the project was 30% above the volume of trade estimated
    at appraisal based on 70% of the amount of funds expected to be available for the
    facilities; and (b) SMECA developed into a self-financing ECA, as measured by its
    capacity to cover operational costs and liabilities, using its own funds and resources,
    and has a viable loan and insurance portfolio with skilled and experienced staff,
    providing a satisfactory return to the stakeholders on invested funds.



                                                   20

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Poverty impacts. As expected during project preparation, the operation had a positive
impact on its beneficiaries with regard to the Bank's social objectives. In particular, the
project was successful in:
(i) Reaching the target group. The project benefits reached the target group identified in
the PDO - domestic exporters and banks and foreign financial institutions - demonstrated
by improved access to trade finance (see Sections 3.1.-3.4 and Annex 3). The enterprises
supported by the project have successfully performed their export contracts.
(ii) Reducing poverty. By improving growth opportunities of the project beneficiaries, the
project had a positive impact on poverty reduction. It is well recognized that healthy
enterprise and financial sectors are sine qua non conditions for the sustainable
development of the economy, employment creation, and poverty reduction. In addition,
the project supported firms located in various parts of Serbia and Montenegro, including
peripheral locations where poverty is usually more significant (see Annex 2 for a list of
the enterprises supported by geographic area).

Social development. The project had a positive impact on social development by
supporting cross border trade transactions in Serbia and Montenegro. This was done by
facilitating working capital to perform contracts and providing security through export
credit insurance. The project contributed to expanding export activity of the enterprises
that benefited from project activities, thereby contributing to improved living standards
for their stakeholders. Its net contribution to job creation was negative. However, the
private companies supported by SMECA's facilities created new jobs, while those in the
process of privatization or that had just completed the privatization (which were likely
left with some redundancies) did reduce their workforce. However, they were able to
fulfill export contracts despite this reduction (see Section 3.2 and Annex 2).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The Bank's assistance had a major impact on building SMECA's institutional capacity by
providing day-to-day advice and assistance based on international best practice and
sharing lessons applied from setting up and running similar institutions in other transition
countries (see also Annex 8).

The project's impact on institutional development was relevant. By creating a permanent
institution from scratch, the project contributed significantly to formalizing the
institutional structure necessary for the development of a market economy and
concentrated on different aspects of commercial transactions, from information to
financing. During project implementation, SMECA acquired the capacity to carry out its
institutional mandate independently and on a self-financing basis. At the end of 2006,
SMECA's balance sheet showed a net income of 0.56 million. No insurance claim had
been submitted, and recovery actions against a fraudulent borrower supported by
factoring had already entered the court procedure.




                                              21

The Bank's assistance helped SMECA develop a reputation as a credible and solid
institution both in domestic and foreign markets. SMECA has gained membership to
important sectoral associations, such as the Prague Club and the Factor Chain
International (FCI) and is highly regarded in the regional and Western European arena.
With regards to the FCI, SMECA became its member in June 2006. The FCI is a global
network of 212 factoring companies from 62 countries whose common aim is to facilitate
international trade through factoring and related financial services. Membership enabled
SMECA's clients/exporters to conclude import contracts for production materials, spear
parts, etc., using factoring facilities. In case of the exporter performance insurance facility,
SMECA worked in a partnership with various Lloyd's of London insurance syndicates
under arrangements that were set up in early 2004. They allowed SMECA to support
domestic companies that were required to provide contract guarantees, such as advance
payments and performance guarantees in support of export contracts.

The project also contributed to further strengthening local capacity in trade finance.
SMECA's staff consists of professionals with sound technical skills able to design and
implement complex trade transactions and operations. As part of its institutional mandate,
SMECA also offers consulting services to exporters. Finally, the project contributed to
sound and transparent lending and insurance underwriting decisions and practices, as
demonstrated by the good quality of SMECA's financial portfolio.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The overall rating of the risk is moderate based on the following considerations.

With respect to the first development outcome, namely increased trade, the risk is low.
Both political and economic factors point to increasing trade between Serbia, Montenegro
and neighboring countries. All countries in the region are either seeking closer ties to the
EU or are EU members, thereby providing an important political anchor to improved
trade among these countries. In addition, the economic benefits of trade are widely
recognized. Thus, the provision of security and financing for trade transactions on a
sustainable basis continues to be central to the development priorities of Serbia and
Montenegro.

With respect to the second development outcome, namely establishment of a viable ECA,
a merger of SMECA and AOFI can constitute a moderate risk to maintaining the
development outcome if the resulting set-up maintains the operational independence and
governance standards. In addition, the Government of Serbia will also have to discuss the
possible merger with the Government of Montenegro, as the latter is a co-owner of
SMECA.



                                                22

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory for a number of
reasons. The Bank carefully designed the project and the range of financial products to
support trade transactions. It ensured Government ownership which, given relations
between Montenegro and Serbia, involved an extra level of complications which were
successfully addressed. The Bank diligently assessed the political risks which might
emerge as a result of the changing nature of relations between Serbia and Montenegro
and tailored the project to address these risks. The Bank accurately incorporated risk
mitigation measures in the design of the project (i.e., in terms of variety of financial
products available to support trade transactions, stringent eligibility criteria for
participating banks and enterprises, operational manuals). The Bank also gave special
attention to the design of SMECA (as embedded in the special law, statute of the agency
through which it was established and would function), including governance issues, such
as responsibilities and accountability of the governing bodies of the agency, private
sector representation in the board, qualification and disqualification criteria for board
members, circumstances for dismissal of board members and directors, disclosure of
conflict of interest, remuneration of SMECA directors and personnel, sharing of the
assets and liabilities of SMECA in event of its dissolution, etc. Furthermore, the Bank
made considerable efforts to mobilize donor funds to facilitate preparation and
implementation of the project and best ensure achievement of the project planned
development outcomes. A PHRD grant was mobilized to support project preparation
while Italian funds co-financed the project and provided parallel technical support.
Finally, the project benefited from the experience of the whole Bank team in addressing
trade finance issues in other countries of the region, and the operation was consistent with
the Bank's fiduciary role.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory. It supported effective implementation of
the project through close supervision and proactive identification of opportunities and
resolution of threats. The Bank helped SMECA in establishing itself as a reputable
institution, especially in foreign markets. It carefully reviewed each single proposed
transaction submitted by SMECA and provided continuing expert advice to SMECA on
how to best structure transactions able to address financing needs of client enterprises and
banks. It helped SMECA develop good working relationships with international financial
institutions, including insurers, banks, and other ECAs. The Bank team received valid
support from the Bank office in Belgrade for the fiduciary and safeguard aspects of the
project. Adequacy of supervision was overall sufficient. The Bank adjusted appropriately
the project ratings to reflect the impact of the political environment on the likelihood of
achieving the PDO and the progress of implementation. Reporting of supervision was
clear and included dedicated sections for each republic.



                                             23

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The elements of the design and the
detailed aspects of supervision by the Bank described above ensured quality at entry and
effective implementation, all being evidenced by the results indicated in this report.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Despite the complexity of the political context and difficulties existing between the
Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro within the framework of the FRY
first and the Union State after, overall, the project enjoyed the Borrower's strong support
during project preparation.

In spite of difficulties in fulfilling the conditions for effectiveness due to the political
instability, the federal Government, in close cooperation with the Governments of the two
republics took important actions to prepare the project for implementation and facilitate
SMECA's operations. This included the approval by the FRY Parliament of the law
establishing SMECA, the timely selection of competent staff and managers to SMECA,
and high beneficiary participation in the form of private representation in SMECA's
board. Additional positive elements of the authorities' performance included supportive
sectoral and macroeconomic policies for the implementation of the project, such as the
enterprise restructuring and privatization program. With regard to donor coordination, the
Serbian and Montenegrin authorities contributed to good cooperation with the donors that
supported the project.

The FRY/Union State and the Montenegrin Governments expressed strong support for
the project during the entire project cycle. The decision of the Serbian Government (that
took office in March 2004) to establish another ECA of Serbia only caused uncertainty
inside SMECA about its future and confusion in the business and financial community
about the relationship of the two agencies (see Section 2.2), but no actions were taken to
interfere with SMECA's operations. In the end, the project reached satisfactory results.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The overall performance of SMECA was highly satisfactory in ensuring quality in project
preparation and implementation. SMECA was strongly committed to facilitating project
implementation and proved to be very efficient in timely addressing issues within its
control. Additional positive elements of SMECA's performance include: (i) its sound
lending and underwriting practices which resulted in a well-performing financial
portfolio; (ii) its diligent and efficient conduct of the day-to-day operations which helped
to keep operating costs at acceptable levels; (iii) its good reputation and solid credibility
both in domestic and international markets as demonstrated ­ inter alia ­ by SMECA's
memberships in relevant sectoral international associations. Overall, SMECA's
management team was both effective and efficient in implementing a complex project in
difficult circumstances.



                                               24

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall Borrower performance rating was satisfactory based on the Governments'
and SMECA's performance in ensuring quality in preparation and implementation
towards the achievement of the development objectives. Changes in the Serbian
Government's views on an agency representing both Serbia and Montenegro and its
inability to control the agency created some uncertainty about the agency's operations.
Notwithstanding, the project succeeded in reaching satisfactory results.

6. Lessons Learned
The most significant lessons learnt from the operation's experience are the following:

It is important to draw specific lessons from other transition economies. The project
design reflected lessons from the Bank's similar operations in the region, tailored to the
local environment. The good design contributed positively to the achievement of the
project objective. In particular, the design recognized the need to provide an ECA with a
wide range of financial products that can be flexibly adjusted to market demand and
satisfy exporters' financing needs and changing capacity of the financial sector to absorb
credit risk. In addition, it recognized that an adequate capitalization is fundamental for
the agency to be accepted in the local and foreign market place as a financially credible
institution. Credibility will emerge once the agency has adequate funds to back up its
obligations and is seen over time to be operating using sound lending and underwriting
practices and paying valid claims promptly.

Government export credit agencies should operate in compliance with the European
Union directives, as well as the World Trade Organization and OECD principles, and
according to sound governance rules and principles. The design of SMECA reflected
best practices for ECAs. It also devoted special attention to the agency's governance
arrangements, including responsibility, accountability, governing bodies of the agency,
etc. This helped SMECA develop reputation as a credible and solid institution both in
foreign and domestic markets.

Commitment to macroeconomic stability and structural reform is crucial to improve the
business environment and institution building. It also helps reduce political risks. The
project benefited from significant improvements in the enabling environment. As a result
of a more stable macroeconomic situation and strong Governments' commitment for
structural reforms, perception of political risk abated during the project implementation
period. Consequently, there was no demand for the facility supported by this component,
and the funds could be reallocated to other components in demand.

Building effective institutions require continued political support. Intermittent political
support results in uncertainty about longer term sustainability of institutions and
development outcomes. The political difficulties faced by SMECA at early 2004 and the
existence of the new agency created uncertainty inside SMECA and confusion in the
business and financial community about the role of the two entities and their relationship




                                             25

(see Section 2.2). However, no actions were taken to interfere with the operations of
SMECA which continued to carry out its mandate with appropriate professionalism.

Effective management and commitment of the project implementing unit is essential to
fulfill institutional objectives and deal with changing political circumstances and support.
SMECA consistently displayed strong ownership of the project and commitment to its
early implementation. Effective management also helped the agency remain focused on
its mandate despite uncertain political circumstances.

Staffing continuity facilitates project implementation (and supervision) and the
achievement of its objectives. The continuity of the staff in both the Bank and the project
implementing unit team was an important factor in maintaining the focus of the operation
and building up an atmosphere of trust with the authorities and project beneficiaries.

Flexibility in design is crucial for an operation that must respond to evolving needs in a
dynamic environment. The project provided SMECA with a comprehensive range of
facilities that could adapt to the financial needs of exporting companies operating in
rapidly evolving operational environments. This avoided adjustments in project
implementation to reflect changes in the market context.

Good coordination with donors can be a critical factor in quickly developing the
institutional capacity to implement complex operations. During project preparation and
implementation, the Bank's team and implementing unit maintained a good quality
dialogue with the Italian counterparts in order to leverage support and maximize use of
available resources.

Untied funding would have enabled the Bank Group to choose delivery partners most
suited for a specific technical issue. Because the project was using a tied Italian funding,
the Bank Group used Italian institutions and consultants as delivery partners. While the
final outcome was satisfactory, it is possible that SMECA could have learnt more from a
broad range of country and institutional experiences if they had a broader choice of
institutions to collaborate with.

In projects that involve a number of stakeholders, there is the need to factor in greater
time and efforts in developing a common understanding between the main stakeholders
on training needs and priorities. In this case, there was some delay due to this reason in
launching the technical assistance activities implemented by the WBI (but also because of
the delay in effectiveness).




                                              26

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Due to the limitations of the Bank's management information system, only one country
can be mentioned in the datasheet, and therefore the ICR could not be changed to include
Montenegro. Serbia was stated given that it used most of the credit funds.

(b) Cofinanciers
No comments.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Below is a comment on the views of SACE on the technical capacity at SMECA (see
Annex 8):

SMECA received training from SACE from the end of 2004 until mid-2005, covering a
range of topics relevant for ECAs. It is understood that SACE's trainers assessed the
training program very positively. Based on the training experience at that time SACE
could also recommend more investment in training the capacity in the highly specialized
segments of financial insurance and risk assessment and management for mid-
management and lower-level staff whom SMECA hired at the beginning of the project
implementation.

SMECA had a high level of expertise from the very beginning of the project through the
experience of the high-level managers in export credit insurance from the export credit
and development agency of Yugoslavia (a credible agency with a solid reputation and a
member of the Berne Union); in international transactions, including contract bonds; in
factoring; and in insurance business. SMECA's capacity was recognized before end-2004
by the international insurance and financial market with the signing of the agreements
with Atradius re-insurer and Lloyd's of London underwriters for specific transactions in
insurance and bonds.

SMECA continues to benefit from training through further cooperation with Berne Union
Prague Club, Factor Chain International and large re-insurance companies like Atradius
by their active participation in seminars and workshops for specific areas. SMECA's
management actively and fully participates in exchanging information and discussing
technical issues with other members of the Prague Club during the regular meetings.




                                           27

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent) (*)

                                            Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest
              Components                                                                         Percentage of
                                               (USD millions)          Estimate (USD
                                                                            millions)               Appraisal

 POLITICAL RISK                                         6.27                    0
INSURANCE FACILITY                                    (19.90%)                (0%)                       0

 WORKING CAPITAL LOAN                                   5.26                  9.57
FACILITY AND FACTORING                                (16.70%)              (46.91%)                    182

 WORKING CAPITAL                                        5.40                    0
GUARANTEE FACILITY                                    (17.14%)                (0%)                       0

 EXPORTER PERFORMANCE                                   5.31                  3.00
INSURANCE FACILITY                                    (18.56%)              (14.71%)                    56

 CREDIT INSURANCE                                       6.31                  6.60
FACILITY                                              (20.03%)              (32.35%)                    105

 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FOR SMECA AND YUGOSLAV                                  1.33                  0.17                      13
EXPORTERS                                              (4.22%)               (0.83%)
 OPERATING COSTS                                                              1.06
(PROJECT                                                1.38                 (6.20%)                    77
IMPLEMENTATION)                                        (4.38%)

 GOODS
(PROJECT                                                0.24                    0                        0
IMPLEMENTATION)                                        (0.76%)                (0%)


                Total Baseline Cost                    31.50                  20.4                      65

Physical Contingencies                                  0                       0                        0

Price Contingencies                                     0                       0                        0

                 Total Project Costs                   31.50                  20.4                      65
Project Preparation Fund                                0                       0                        0
Front-end fee IBRD                                      0                       0                        0
        Total Financing Required                       31.50                  20.4                      65


Source: SMECA (for actuals).
(*) This table includes the costs financed by the IDA credit in the original amount of SDR 9.1 million, a co-financing
Grant from the Italian Government ("Child" TF051458) in the original amount of US$8,920,714, and an actual
borrower contribution of US$23,774. The use of funds allocated through WBI is not included in the project costs. Both
the Credit and the Grant were fully disbursed. The differences with the appraisal estimate are due to the following: (i)
reallocations of funds required to satisfy the market demand for SMECA's various facilities (see Sections 1.7 and 2.2);
(ii) foreign exchange fluctuations (the Credit was in SDR, the Grant was in US$, the Special Accounts for both were in
, and SMECA's accounts were held in RSD and ); (iii) the lack of donor funds of about US$11 million not mobilized
during the project implementation (see Section 1.7), and a smaller contribution of the Borrower than envisaged
(US$0.5 million). There is a small discrepancy between Table (a) and (b) in the amounts for technical assistance and
operating costs due to exchange rate differences because (a) uses SMECA's data and (b) ­ Bank data. There is also a
small discrepancy in the actual disbursements from the Credit between Table G in the ICR Datasheet and Annex 1 of
the ICR due to the exchange rate fluctuations.



                                                          28

(b) Financing
                                                                      Appraisal Actual/Latest            Percentage
              Source of Funds                        Type of           Estimate         Estimate
                                                   Cofinancing           (USD              (USD         of Appraisal

                                                                       millions)        millions)            (**)

 Borrower                                              NA                0.50                  0               0

 ITALY, Govt. of (Except for Dev.
Coop. Dept. - MOFA)                               Co-financing           9.39               8.92               95

International Development
Association (IDA)                                      NA                11.50              11.50             100

 Foreign Multilateral Institutions
(unidentified)                                         NA                10.11                 0               0

(**) Both the Credit and the Grant were fully disbursed. To simplify reporting in the context of the complicated
currency structure, it was decided to refer to the original Credit and Grant amounts in this table (there is a small
discrepancy with Table (a) due to this). The differences with the appraisal estimate are due to the following: (i) the
smaller Borrower's contribution (i.e., US$23,774) than envisaged (US$0.5 million); (ii) foreign exchange fluctuations
for the Italian grant which suffered from the US$ depreciation vis a vis the Euro (the initial commitment from Italy was
in Euro, the Grant was provided in US$ in the original amount of US$8,920,714); and (iii) the lack of donor funds of
about US$11 million that were not mobilized during project implementation (see Section 1.7).


(c) Italian Co-financing Grant (TF051458): Costs by Component (in USD Million)

              Components                        Original (USD             Actual (USD              Percentage of
                                                   millions)                 millions)            Original (***)
 POLITICAL RISK                                     963,000                      0
INSURANCE FACILITY                                  (10.8%)                    (0%)                        0

 WORKING CAPITAL LOAN                              1,784,000                3,893,579
FACILITY AND FACTORING                              (20.0%)                  (43.6%)                     218

 WORKING CAPITAL                                   1,561,000                     0
GUARANTEE FACILITY                                  (17.5%)                    (0%)                        0

 EXPORTER PERFORMANCE                               892,000                 1,725,061
INSURANCE FACILITY                                  (10.0%)                  (19.4%)                     193

 CREDIT INSURANCE                                   892,000                 1,996,537
FACILITY                                            (10.0%)                  (22.4%)                     223

 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FOR SMECA AND YUGOSLAV                             1,276,000                 180,823                      14
EXPORTERS                                           (14.3%)                   (2.0%)

 OPERATING COSTS                                                            1,124,714
(PROJECT                                           1,324,714
                                                                             (12.6%)                      85
IMPLEMENTATION)                                     (14.8%)

 GOODS                                                                           0.
(PROJECT                                            228,000                    (0%)                        0
IMPLEMENTATION)                                      (2.6%)

                Total Baseline Cost                8,920,714                8,920,714                    100
Source: Bank data.
(***) The difference with the original amounts is due to the following: (i) reallocations of funds required to satisfy the
market demand for SMECA's various facilities (see Sections 1.7 and 2.2); (ii) SMECA' contribution to the borrower's
portion of the project costs; and (iii) foreign exchange fluctuations between US$ and  (SMECA's accounts are held in
RSD and ; the Special Account for the Grant provided in US$ was in ).



                                                            29

(d) Project facilities financed by the recipient (Serbia/Montenegro) ()
                                                                      Total
                                                         Serbia    Montenegro     Total


Working Capital Facility                                 7,282,402    1,163,981  8,446,383
(i) Working Capital Loans and Guarantees                  460,000            0     460,000
(ii) Factoring                                           6,822,402    1,163,981  7,986,383
Exporter Performance Insurance Facility                  2,649,278           0   2,649,278
Credit Insurance Facility                                5,591,900     240,000   5,831,900
                                                       15,523,580     1,403,981 16,927,561
Source: SMECA.

(e) Italian Grant and IDA Credit: Project facilities financed by recipient
(Serbia/Montenegro) ()
                                      Grant                             Credit

                          Serbia   Montenegro      Total     Serbia   Montenegro   Total

Working Capital
Facility                 2,632,599      499,508 3,132,107 4,649,803      664,473 5,314,276
(i) Working Capital
Loans and
Guarantees                300,000             0    300,000   160,000           0   160,000
(ii) Factoring           2,332,599      499,508 2,832,107 4,489,803      664,473 5,154,276
Exporter
Performance
Insurance Facility       1,349,278            0 1,349,278 1,300,000            0 1,300,000
Credit Insurance
Facility                 1,636,150            0 1,636,150 3,955,750      240,000 4,195,750
                         5,618,027      499,508 6,117,535 9,905.553      904,473 10,810,026
Source: SMECA.




                                               30

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Political Risk Insurance Facility
In the early stages of preparation of the project, there were a number of inquiries by
potential foreign suppliers of goods and/or services for insurance against political risks of
the type defined in this component. However, when SMECA's operations started, there
was no longer demand for this facility, and the funds were reallocated to satisfy demand
for other facilities (see Sections 1.7 and 2.2).

Component 2: Working Capital Loan Facility and Factoring
This facility financed working capital loans to local banks and factoring of receivables19
submitted by Serbia's and Montenegro's exporters. Compared to the high contribution of
the credit insurance facility, the working capital loan and factoring facility had a low
contribution to the increase in exports based on their share of the total exports supported
by the project (see Section 2.2, Table 5, and Annex 3).

Working Capital Loans. Exports supported through this facility totaled US$4 million (see
Table 7 and Annex 3), representing 0.1% of the exports supported by the project (see
Table 5). While SMECA received a lot of loan applications, only few of them resulted in
the approval of loans (see Section 2.2). SMECA reviewed a number of enterprises for
eligibility for working capital credits (including guarantees and factoring). It also
conducted due diligence of 23 domestic banks, it approved 16 banks for participation in
the working capital facility and signed participation agreements with about 12 of them,
three of which were from Montenegro. Together with regular analysis of financial
situation of banks, SMECA monitored terms and conditions prevailing in the lending
market to ensure that SMECA's risk premiums were in line with the market. However,
only 460,000 - much less than expected at appraisal - was disbursed to three eligible
banks for on-lending for working capital to exporting enterprises. All of them were
performing (i.e., classified as "Standard") at any time during project implementation.

Table 7. Working Capital Loans (End of year data)
                                     2004          2005      2006        2007        Total
                                                                     (projected)
 Number of loans disbursed            0             3          0          0             0
 Total amount of disbursed
 loans ()                          300,000        160,000      0          0         460,000

 Value of export contracts                                                          4,189,78
 supported (US$)                  2,929,920     1,259,866      0          0             6
 Number of jobs created                                                                 5
 (Increase in employment)        0                  5          0          0          (3.9%)
Source: SMECA's data and World Bank's calculations.




19Factoring provides a working capital loan to the exporter that submits export receivables for
discount.


                                               31

Factoring facility. Exports supported through this facility raised from about US$2 million
in 2004 to projected US$22 million at the end of 2007 with a cumulative total of US$45
million (see Table 8 and Annex 3). The 2007 turnover is nearly the total value of exports
supported by the facility in the first three years of project implementation20. The facility's
share of total exports supported by the project was 2% given the very high volume of
exports supported by the credit insurance facility (see Table 5). However, the largest
number of exporters benefited from the factoring facility compared to other facilities (see
below in Annex 2).

Table 8. Factoring (End of year data)
                         2004          2005            2006                2007               Total
                                                                        (projected)
 Value of export
 contracts             2,278,075     5,803,161     15,148,041         22,047,565 (*)      45,276,842
 supported (US$)
 Number of
 foreign buyers            9             45             74                 103              138 (**)

 Number of
 domestic
 exporters                 7             17             24                  28               33 (**)

 supported
 Number of
 foreign countries         7             15             20                  25               26 (**)

 Number of
 factoring                 89            281            674              909 (***)            1,953
 transactions
 Number of jobs
 created (Increase                                                                            143

 in employment)                                                                              (5.7%)

 (*) As of November 15, 2007, Serbian exports supported by the facility amounted to US$14,660,501
 while Montenegrin exports accounted for US$6,468,414
 (**) The sum of annual numbers adds up to more because in the above totals each buyer, country, and
 exporter has been counted once.
 (***) As of November 15, 2007, Montenegro had 314 and Serbia 557.
Source: SMECA's data and World Bank's calculations.

Through this facility, SMECA supported private companies, as well as companies which
were in the process of privatization or that had just been privatized, but that were left
with an excessive capacity of labor. In the latter cases, companies that benefited from this
facility did not create new jobs. On the contrary, these companies experienced a
reduction by 21% of their labor force from 3,699 to 2,917 employees. In the case of
private companies, the facility was associated with the creation of new jobs. In particular,
during project implementation private companies expanded their labor force by 143
employees, from 2,505 to 2,648, representing an employment increase of 5.7% (see Table
8). When considering all the companies supported by this facility, there was a 10% job



20Implementation of the factoring facility started once credit insurance was available. As
envisaged by the project, receivables submitted for factoring had to be credit insured.


                                                 32

         reduction, from 6,204 to 5,565 employees (see further below for information on the
         employment in the exporting companies that benefited from the facility).

         Factoring allowed exporters to generate significant improvements in cash flow and
         assisted them in being more competitive by allowing them to offer buyers post shipment
         credit terms. As a consequence, the exporters were able to locate new buyers in new
         markets for sale of their products and services. As shown in Table 8, during project
         implementation there was a considerable increase in the number of buyers (and foreign
         markets per exporter supported through this facility). Factoring of export receivables by
         SMECA combined with credit insurance gave opportunities to exporters to improve their
         sales in non-OECD countries.

         SMECA factoring loan portfolio is of good quality. Only one loan made through the
         factoring facility did not perform well. The default of the borrower was due to a fraud of
         the exporter rather than its insolvency. SMECA took prompt actions, and the court
         decision is expected in the next few months. This loan amounted to 440,000,
         representing 7.3% of SMECA's outstanding loan portfolio in 2005. Except for this loan,
         all the other loans were classified as standard during project implementation (and at the
         time of this evaluation).

         Performance of the factoring facility. Table 9 describes the performance of the factoring
         facility in terms of value of export contracts supported, as well as the number of clients,
         foreign buyers, countries, and transactions involved. The Montenegrin exports supported
         by the facility is projected to account for 25% and Serbian exports for 75% of the total in
         2007.

         Table 9 Factoring Performance Statistics
                                  FACTORING PERFORMANCE STATISTICS
                                                                                                                       In US$
                                                        Value of the Export Contracts
                           2004              2005                2006           2007 *(Projected)           Grand Total
Montenegro                           0          837,667          3,686,335                   6,749,650           11,273,652
Serbia                     2,278,075         4,965,495          11,461,706                 15,297,915            34,003,191
Grand Total                2,278,075         5,803,161          15,148,041              22,047,565**             45,276,842
(*) Data for 2007 reflects a projection of the last month of the year which is calculated based on the actual data for the first
11 months of the year.
(**) As of November 15, 2007, Serbian exports supported by the facility amounted to US$14,660,501 while those from
Montenegro were US$6,468,414


                                                               Number of Clients
                           2004              2005                2006                 2007 (*)              Grand Total
Montenegro                   0                  3                 4                       4                         4
Serbia                       7                 14                 20                      24                       29
Grand Total                  7                 17                 24                      28                       33
(*) As of November 15, 2007.




                                                               33

                                                          Number of Foreign Buyers
                           2004              2005               2006                  2007(*)               Grand Total
Montenegro                   0                  8                15                      31                        38
Serbia                       9                 37                59                      72                       100
Grand Total                  9                 45                74                     103                       138
(*) As of November 15, 2007.


                                                              Number of Countries
                           2004              2005               2006                  2007(*)               Grand Total
Montenegro                   0                  3                 7                      10                        12
Serbia                       7                 14                17                      22                        24
Grand Total                  7                 15                20                      25                        26
As of November 15, 2007.


                                                           Number of Transactions
                           2004              2005               2006            2007**(projected)           Grand Total
Montenegro                                     49                198                    328                       561
Serbia                       89               232                476                    581                     1,354
Grand Total                  89               281                674                   909***                   1,915
(**) Data for 2007 reflect a projection of the last month of the year which is calculated based on actual data for the first 11
months of the year.
(***) As of November 15, 2007, SMECA supported 314 transactions for Montenegro and 557 for Serbia.
         Source: SMECA.

         Component 3: Working Capital Guarantee Facility
         The project did not finance any working capital guarantee either because there was no
         demand for this facility or because applicants did not meet SMECA's eligibility criteria,
         and the funds were subsequently reallocated to satisfy demand for other facilities (see
         Sections 1.7 and 2.2).

         In any case, working capital financing in the form of loans or guarantees represents a
         major area of specialization for banks and not for ECAs. As already mentioned, ECAs
         offer highly specialized and export-tailored products which are not available in the local
         market. In addition, in those cases where ECAs offer working capital credits, they do it in
         partnership with (and not in competition with) the exporter's bank.

         In this regard, it should be noted that the National Bank of Serbia and the Central Bank of
         Montenegro did not only understand well the role of SMECA for the sound development
         of the export sector, but they also decided to give domestic banks that availed themselves
         of SMECA's working capital guarantees zero risk weighting for capital adequacy
         purposes on their balance sheets for any guaranteed amount. In other words, had the
         demand for this facility materialized, SMECA would have been ready to provide this
         facility with the full recognition by the banking regulatory authorities.




                                                              34

Component 4: Exporter Performance Insurance Facility
This facility's contribution to the increase in exports based on its share of the total
exports supported by the project was low due to the high volume of the exports supported
by the credit insurance facility (see Section 2.2, Table 5, and Annex 3).

The export contracts supported through this facility amounted to US$98 million in 2004,
thanks to one large export contract for the construction of a motorway (for a total value of
US$112 million) (see Table 10). The cumulative value of exports contracts supported is
projected to be US$123 million at the end of 2007, representing 5% of the total exports
supported by the project (see Table 5). The facility provided a reasonable efficiency in
the use of funds compared to that of the working capital and medium term imports
guarantee facilities (see Table 5).

Table 10. Exporter Performance Insurance Facility­ End of year data
                                 2004          2005        2006       2007 (*)      Total
 Number of
 bonds/guarantees issued           16            1          18           1            36

 Value of the bond/guarantee
 issued (US$)                 2,769,600     1,115,027    1,375,800    27,500      5,287,927

 Value of export contracts
 supported (US$)              98,292,005    20,904,786   3,518,941    183,120    122,888,852

 (*) As of November 15, 2007
Source: SMECA's data and World Bank's calculations.

Component 5: Credit Insurance Facility
This facility's overall contribution to the increase in exports based on its share of the total
exports supported by the project was very high (see Table 5 and Annex 3). Under this
facility, SMECA was authorized to support exports through (i) export credit insurance
and import transactions through (ii) import credit insurance and (iii) medium term import
guarantee/insurance.

Supporting exports through export credit insurance. This facility accounted for 93% of
the exports supported by the project, significantly exceeding the initial estimates for
export support (see Tables 5 and 11 and Annex 3). It provided a very efficient use for the
funds provided, measured in terms of exports supported divided by disbursements from
the project (exports supported exceeded the amount of disbursements from the project by
487 times, see Table 5).

SMECA was active in making presentations on credit insurance to companies and
industries associations. Under the WBI training program (see Annex 8), with the
assistance from SACE, the Italian ECA, SMECA developed the marketing techniques
necessary to sell credit insurance in emerging markets. As part of its marketing program,
SMECA carried out a survey of exporters both in Serbia and Montenegro with the
objective of better understanding credit and payment terms and experience of default by
buyers in payment of receivables. This helped SMECA to adjust the factoring facility to
better suit exporters' financing needs. No transaction could proceed for working capital
credits or factoring until credit insurance was available.



                                               35

Export credit insurance grew at a significant rate since the operations started in mid-2004,
immediately after SMECA's signing of a reinsurance treaty with a leading European
reinsurance corporation for the reinsurable part of its credit insurance portfolio (i.e.,
covering export sales to OECD countries)21. By the end of 2007 the cumulative value of
export receivables supported is expected to reach 308 million and the value of exports
contracts is projected to increase to about US$2.6 billion (see Table 11). In the first year
of its operations (2004), this facility supported exports for US$480 million, representing
9.5% of total exports for that year. In the past two years, the share of exports insured by
SMECA grew up to about 12-14% of the total, now much larger volume of exports of
Serbia and Montenegro. At the end of 2007, SMECA had issued 52 credit insurance
policies (versus 3 in 2004), covering export receivables for 152 million (versus
555,000 in 2004) and supporting exports contracts in the amount of US$1.1 billion
(versus US$480 million in 2004). SMECA's clients insured 563 foreign buyers (versus
14 in 2004) from 48 countries (versus 7 in 2004) at the end of 2007.

Several large exporters recognized the need for credit insurance. Export credit insurance
gave the exporters security for their export income and allowed them to expand their
export activity. In other words, the security provided by SMECA made it possible for an
exporter to enter into an export contract in the first place. Premiums for this facility -
which represent a major source of income for ECAs - increased from 1,400 in 2004 to
0.98 million in 2007, thus making an important contribution to SMECA's financial self-
sustainability.

Table 11. Export Credit Insurance (End of year data)
                                    2004             2005                 2006                2007 (*)       Total
 Premium ()                         1,412          47,219               308,243               980,000      1,336,874
 Increase in the
 premium (%) previous                  --          3,344%                652%                   318%           -
 year
 Number of policies
 (cum.)                                3              14                     3                    52           -

 Number of foreign
 buyers (cum.)                        14             118                   304                   563           -

 Number of countries
 (cum.)                                7              27                    39                    48           -

 Value of export
 receivables supported            555,000        48,140,000           107,242,000           152,443,500  308,380,500
 () (cum.)
 Value of export
 contracts supported               0 (**)       480,732,187           945,871,264          1,129,356,658 2,555,960,109
 (US$) (cum.)
 (*) As of November 15.
 (**) Insurance policies were issued towards the end of the year in support of 2005 export contracts
Source: SMECA's data and World Bank's calculations.




21Export sales to non-OECD countries (e.g., Bosnia-Herzegovina) were not readily reinsurable
during 2004 and 2005. The non-reinsurable (i.e., "non-marketable") part was a minor part of
SMECA's portfolio and was backed up by a reasonable amount of funds put aside to cover this
type of risk.


                                                                 36

Supporting imports through (ii) import credit insurance, and (iii) medium-term import
guarantee/insurance. The project's support to exporters for importing essential inputs,
such as new machinery, was relatively modest (see Sections 1.7 and 2.2, Table 5 and
Annex 3). SMECA did not issue any import credit insurance. Only one medium-term
import insurance was issued during the project implementation (see Table 12).

Through the medium-term import guarantee/facility facility, SMECA supported a Serbian
company in the purchase of special machinery necessary to complete the construction of
an underground railway in Kazakhstan. The supplier required a guarantee from a first
class bank, supporting the buyer payment obligation. SMECA issued its own guarantees
for an amount of 922,195 in support of a contract of about US$20 million equivalent
(see Table 12), representing a moderate efficiency in the use of projects measured in
terms of exports supported divided by disbursements from the project (see Table 5).

Table 12. Medium Term Import Credit Insurance/Guarantee (End of year data)
                                   2004         2005      2006        2007 (*)        Total
 Number of guarantees issued         0            0         2            0               2
 Value of the bond/guarantee
 issued ()                           0            0     922,195          0          922,195

 Value of export contracts
 supported (US$)                     0            0    19,481,162        0         19,481,162

 (*) As of November 15, 2007              Source: SMECA's data and World Bank's calculations.

Component 6: Credit Information
With the project support, SMECA established itself as a credible credit information
provider on domestic banks and enterprises. As indicated in the Table 13, SMECA has
provided 361 credit reports to foreign and domestic entities. It developed a credit
information system for the collection of credit information about domestic and foreign
banks and enterprises. This allowed SMECA to satisfy an increasing demand for credit
information about domestic entities, arising from a number of foreign entities (including
banks, enterprises, and ECAs). By providing information on creditworthiness of domestic
entities, SMECA facilitated a more efficient allocation of resources that has allowed
creditworthy exporters better access to credit.

In addition, in early October 2007, SMECA and OEKB - a privately owned credit
insurance corporation that acts as an agent for the Austrian Government for certain
facilities - founded a joint financial services company with the objective of collecting and
providing credit and payment information on Serbian and Montenegrin companies (see
Section 2.2). The operations will commence shortly. This would provide foreign trade
partners and credit insurers with a better access to information on Serbian partners,
including the so-called soft information.

Table 13. Credit Reports (End of year data)
                                               2004   2005       2006      2007*         Total
 Number of credit reports prepared              14     40         146       161          361
 (*) As of November 15, 2007
Source: SMECA's data and World Bank's calculations.



                                               37

Component 7: Technical Assistance for SMECA and Exporters
SMECA made effective use of technical assistance. Consulting services and training
helped build SMECA's capacity as a modern ECA that provides specialized financial
products to support trade transactions in Serbia and Montenegro and is able to operate on
a self-sustainable basis.

While the project financed only a small amount of technical assistance (representing less
than 1% of the project costs; due to in-house experience of SMECA; see Sections 1.7 and
2.2) in the early stage of project implementation, SMECA also benefited from some
training funded by the Italian Trust Fund (TF51193) allocated through the World Bank
Institute (see Annex 8). A considerable amount of this training was delivered by the
Italian Export Credit Agency (SACE) during 2004. It covered a comprehensive range of
topics relevant for ECAs, including country risk analysis, portfolio risk management,
environmental screening and review, insurance underwriting, claims and recovery
handling, and factoring. The Italian grant also financed seminars and workshops for
Serbian and Montenegrin exporters in: (i) export procedures and documentation; (ii)
manufacturing practices and procedures; and (iii) marketing techniques. Workshops were
organized in different locations of Serbia and Montenegro in close collaboration with
local business associations and chambers of commerce. All these activities were
successful in building local capacity in exports and increasing SMECA's visibility in the
local market.

Component 8: Operating Costs
This component contributed to the achievement of the project development objective
highly (see Section 3.2, Annexes 1 and 3). The agency was successful in keeping its
operating costs at reasonable levels. This helped SMECA establish a good reputation in
the market place as a public agency capable of financing its activity efficiently, with no
waste of resources. SMECA's operating costs represented about 6% of the total project
costs. At the same time, salaries were set at levels able to attract and retain well-qualified
technical and managerial skill.

SMECA's operating costs were financed by the Italian grant (TF051458). As the
Borrower's contribution to finance the portion of SMECA's operating costs (about
US$24,000), not funded by the project, was smaller than envisaged at appraisal (US$0.5
million), SMECA financed the remaining part with its own funds.

Other results in the participating exporting companies
The following tables describe the change in employment in the exporting companies
supported by the project, their geographic distribution, and examples of transactions
supported by the project.

Change in employment. Table 14 shows the change in employment in the exporting
companies that were supported by SMECA's facilities.




                                            38

Table 14. Employment in companies supported SMECA by project facility
                                        FACTORING ­ SERBIA
    No.      Company name                     No. of employees start           No. of employees now
     1       BELCOM                                      18                                19
     2       BRACA PETKOVIC                               2                                2
     3       CONFIDO                                     18                                18
     4       DUNAV GROCKA                               178                               171
     5       DAN RAN                                      1                                1
     6       DANIEL KNITWEAR                             24                                41
     7       EUROPAPER                                    1                                3
     8       HERBA                                       12                                14
     9       Intermarket                                  4                                7
    10       IPM (*)                                    992                               700
    11       IVKOVIC                                     37                                42
    12       JUCIT INVEST                                13                                15
    13       JPL SPECIJAL                                24                                45
    14       LAGADO                                     187                               211
    15       LANTERNA                                    22                                23
    16       LUGO                                         1                                4
    17       MARKO d.o.o.                                20                                16
    18       MATEX                                      538                               605
    19       Milan Blagojevic                          1,306                             1,306
    20       Nissal (*)                                 755                               649
    21       Petar Drapsin (*)                         1,050                              800
    22       Vizahem (*)                                736                               668
    23       ROPE                                         3                                3
    24       RS KOMMERC                                   5                                3
    25       VLAMIS                                      47                                47
    26       Wega Regulus                                44                                52
    27       Zvezda Zemun (*)                           166                               100
             Total employees                           6,204                             5,565
                                      FACTORING ­ MONTENEGRO
     1       Tehnosteel                                 138                               250
     2       MONTE VERDE                                  1                                1
     3       BIJELA                                     746                               785
     4       MARTEX                                      39                                40
             Total employees                            924                              1,076
                                     SERBIA ­ CREDIT INSURANCE
     1       US Steel                                  6,279                             6,592
     2       Tarkett                                    333                               333
     3       UMKA                                       359                               359
     4       Avala Ada                                  405                               364
     5       Foodland                                    16                                20
             Total employees                           7,392                             7,668
                                  SERBIA ­ WORKING CAPITAL LOAN
     1       NEG                                         35                                35
     2       Kolzec                                      55                                55
     3       Ivkovic                                     37                                42

             Total employees                            127                               132
(*) Companies in the process of privatization or that had completed privatization at the time they received
project support.
Source: SMECA.




                                                    39

Geographic distribution of exporters supported by the project. Table 15 depicts the
geographic distribution of the exporters supported by the project. Of them, four were
from Montenegro and the rest from Serbia. Of those in Serbia, eleven were from
Belgrade, five from Novi Sad, and the remaining considerable number from other
different cities.

         Table 15. Exporters supported by SMECA by geographic area
          State        City                Client
          Montenegro   Bijela              Bijela
          Montenegro   Cetinje             Martex
          Montenegro   Kotor               Monteverde
          Montenegro   Niksi               Technosteel
          Serbia       Backa Palanka       TARKET DOO
          Serbia       Backa Palanka       TARKET TRADE DOO
          Serbia       Beograd             Dunav Grocka
          Serbia       Beograd             FOODLAND
          Serbia       Beograd             Herba
          Serbia       Beograd             Intermarket
          Serbia       Beograd             Ivkovic
          Serbia       Beograd             Jucit
          Serbia       Beograd             Condor
          Serbia       Beograd             Lugo
          Serbia       Beograd             Rope
          Serbia       Beograd             Vizahem
          Serbia       Beograd             Zvezda
          Serbia       Bujanovac           Lagado
          Serbia       Cacak               Europaper
          Serbia       Celarevo            Marko
          Serbia       Gornji Milanovac    Belcom
          Serbia       Kosjeri             jpl
          Serbia       Kragujevac          POLYAGRAM doo
          Serbia       Loznica             EP BELT
          Serbia       Majdanpek           IPM
          Serbia       Mladenovac          Petar Drapsin
          Serbia       Nis                 Nissal
          Serbia       Nis                 Vlamis
          Serbia       Novi Sad            Confido
          Serbia       Novi Sad            Daniel Knittwear
          Serbia       Novi Sad            Lanterna
          Serbia       Novi Sad            PAN UNION
          Serbia       Novi Sad            RS Kommerc
          Serbia       Novo Milesevo       Dan Ran
          Serbia       Smederevo           Milan Blagojevic
          Serbia       Smederevo           US Steel
          Serbia       Sremska Mitrovica   MIV
          Serbia       Subotica            Matex
          Serbia       Ugrinovci           VUMO doo
          Serbia       Umka                UMKA
          Serbia       Velika Plana        Braca Petkovic
          Serbia       Zrenjanin           Wega
        Source: SMECA.




                                          40

Examples of transactions supported by the project

Factoring. Technosteel company from Montenegro started to use the factoring facility in
2005 by factoring receivables of 375,000 with four foreign buyers, all from Croatia. In
2006 the level of exports supported through the factoring facility increased to 1,870,000,
and in 2007 it is expected to be at the level of 3,750,000. At the same time, the number
of foreign buyers has increased to 19 from Italy, three from Czech Republic, and one
from Hungary. In Serbia, thanks to this facility, Jucit Invest was able to increase the level
of exports from 350,000 in 2004 to 1,400,000 in 2007.

Working capital. NEG company from Serbia needed working capital for 300,000 to
finance an export contract for software development to a buyer in Sweden. The total
value of the export contract was 3 million. The working capital loan financed by
SMECA enabled NEG to finance all the activities required to prepare for the production
and delivery of the software to the foreign buyer. The loan was paid on time.

Exporter performance insurance. Planum construction company won a tender for
construction of a motorway in Morocco. The value of the contract was 92 million, and
SMECA issued an advance payment guarantee for 9 million. Planum approached
SMECA for advance payment guarantees after having contacted local banks which
insisted on 100% cash deposit before accepting to issue counter-guarantees. SMECA
arranged the advance payment guarantees by using the mechanism of re-insurance by the
Lloyds Underwriters from London Insurance Market. To complete the contract, Planum
hired 50 new employees.

Credit insurance. Umka Cardboard Mill company started to use this facility in 2007 for
70 foreign buyers. By the closing date of the project, it had increased the number of
buyers to 122. The total exposure insured is 12.8 million which covers total exports for
25 million. The insured portfolio - which is reinsured with Atradius for a share of 50% -
is performing well, and no claim has been submitted.

Medium term import credit insurance/guarantee. Energoprojekt signed a contract with a
buyer in Kazakhstan for the construction of the underground station for a total amount of
US$19,481,162. In order to fulfill the contract, Energoprojekt needed to buy special
equipment from Germany and Italy which demanded guarantees from first class banks as
a confirmation of timely fulfillment of the buyer's financial obligations. Since the
equipment was delivered to Energoprojekt on five years credit terms, SMECA arranged
guarantees for 922,195 to the suppliers of the equipment.




                                              41

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
In order to establish whether the project has generated substantial benefits to the costs
incurred by the Government in taking an IDA credit and transferring it to SMECA's
balance sheet, this Annex repeats the same analysis that was conducted at appraisal, as
reported in Annex 4 of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).

This is done by using the same model which was prepared at appraisal to estimate the
benefits of the project. Benefits are measured by:
(i)     the total trade, particularly exports, supported by the project during the five-year
        implementation period; and
(ii)    the ability of SMECA to develop into a self-financing ECA, as measured by its
        capacity to cover operational costs and liabilities, using its own funds and
        resources during and at the expiration of the project.

The project is cost-effective if:
(i)     the actual exports supported by the facilities during the project
        implementation period was not below the volume of trade estimated at
        appraisal, given the same amount of funds available for the facilities; and
(ii)    SMECA's revenues and resources were sufficient to cover its operational
        costs and liabilities during and at the expiration of the project.

If only one condition is satisfied (i.e., the agency developed into a self-financing
institution, but failed to support the estimated trade volumes; or agency succeeded in
supporting trade, but was unable to break even), then the project is considered only
partially cost-effective. If none condition is satisfied, then costs incurred by the
Government in taking an IDA credit exceeded the benefits generated by the project.

The following assumptions apply:
(i)     the first year of activity coincides with the year 2004 which represents the first
        year of SMECA's operations;
(ii)    the project implementation covers the period of 2004-2007;
(iii)   estimates for the last month of 2007 are projected based on the actual data for the
        first 11 months;
(iv)    for the year 2008, two different scenarios have been considered. Under the
        "conservative scenario", SMECA will perform the same type and volume of
        business as in 2007; under the "realistic scenario", SMECA will grow in 2008
        according to the projections in its business plan; and
(v)     given that, over the life of the project there was no demand for import support, the
        actual volume of trade supported by the project equals the actual volume of
        exports supported by the project.

The estimates at appraisal were made under the assumption that the agency's capital
would amount to about US$29 million while project actual costs were US$20.4 million
(see Section 1.7).




                                              42

(i)         Volume of exports supported by SMECA

As indicated in Table 17, with a smaller capital (US$20.4 million), SMECA was able to
support a volume of exports larger than that estimated at appraisal even though the latter
was calculated considering a larger amount of funds (US$29 million). In particular, in the
first three years of operations (2004-2007), SMECA supported a volume of exports
amounting to nearly US$3 billion which is higher than that estimated at appraisal
(US$2.1 billion) with a larger amount of funds. At the end of its fifth year of operations,
exports supported by SMECA will be about US$3.9 billion and US$4.2 billion under the
"conservative" and "normal" scenario, respectively. In both cases, exports supported will
exceed the appraisal estimates (US$3.5 billion).

Furthermore, exports supported by SMECA over the past 2 years represented about 12-
14% of total exports of Serbia and Montenegro. This is a very important achievement,
given that in 2007 total exports of Serbia and Montenegro increased by 30%, from
US$7.1 billion to US$9.2 billion (see Figure 4.1 and Table 16).

  Figure 2: Share of total exports of Serbia and Montenegro supported by SMECA



         8.000.000.000



         3.000.000.000
     $
      US
        2.000.000.000             2004 (*)                    2005                   2006                     2007



        7.000.000.000



        12.000.000.000


                                                     E xports       Trade balance    S ME C A's  support



Table 16. Trade volumes of Serbia and Montenegro and SMECA's share of exports
supported
                                                                                                                    In US D
                                                     2004 (*)          2005          2006              2007          2008
Imports                                           10.753.000.000 11.649.947.220 14.981.180.580 19.404.457.333
E xports                                           3.720.000.000    5.042.990.560 7.193.401.200    9.254.025.067
Trade balance                                      7.033.000.000 6.606.956.660 7.787.779.380 10.150.432.266                  0
E xports supported by S ME C A                       103.500.000      508.700.000   984.019.409    1.150.125.580 1.495.163.254
E xports supported by S ME C A as a %  of total 
exports of S erbia and Montenegro                          2,78%          10,09%        13,68%           12,43%
(*) Data refer to S erbia only
S ource : S erbia and Montenegro official data and Bank calculations




                                                                 43

             Table 17. Estimated vs. actual volume of exports supported by the project facilities

FACILITIES                                                 2004                       2005                         2006                          2007                               2008                                       TOTAL

                                                   PAD            Actual       PAD          Actual          PAD          Actual (1)        PAD        Projected       PAD       Estimated (*) Estimated (**)     PAD       Estimated (*) Estimated (**)
Working Capital Loans/Factoring                   35,555,556      5,207,995   19,777,741    7,063,026      20,023,669     15,148,041              0    22,047,565             0    22,047,565     28,661,834   75,356,966    71,514,192      78,128,463
Working Capital Guarantees                                   0            0   98,888,704             0    200,236,691              0    207,431,429             0   214,732,042             0              0  721,288,866              0              0
Exporter Performance Facility                     50,000,000    98,292,005   139,062,240   20,904,786     211,187,135      3,518,941    255,237,891       183,120   264,221,067       183,120              0  919,708,333    123,081,972   122,898,852
Med. Term Import Insurance                        16,392,857              0   60,790,065             0    269,263,597     19,481,162    454,271,356             0   792,016,129             0              0 1,592,734,004    19,481,162              0
Credit Insurance                                             0           0    13,088,211 480,732,187       32,771,845   945,871,264      53,535,611 1,129,356,658    63,945,939 1,129,356,658 1,468,163,655    163,341,606 3,685,316,767 4,024,123,765
Political Risk Insurance                           5,500,000              0    4,171,867             0        779,511              0              0             0             0             0              0   10,451,378              0              0
Total trade supported in the year               107,448,413 103,500,000      335,778,828 508,700,000      734,262,448   984,019,409     970,476,287 1,151,587,343 1,334,915,177 1,151,587,343 1,496,825,490 3,482,881,153 3,899,394,093 4,225,151,080
Total (cumulative)                              107,448,413 103,500,000      443,227,241 612,200,000 1,177,489,689 1,596,219,409 2,147,965,976 2,747,806,752 3,482,881,153 3,899,394,095 4,244,632,242 3,482,881,153 3,899,394,093 4,225,151,080
Total exports of Serbia and Montenegro (2)     3,720,000,000               5,042,990,560               7,193,401,200                  9,254,025,067
Exports supported by SMECA as a % of total                             2.78                                                    13.68                        12.44
exports of Serbia and Montenegro


(1) SMECA's first transaction took place in midMay 2004
(2) Data refer to Serbia only. 
(*) This estimate is calculated under the assumption that in 2008 SMECA performs the same volume and type of business as the previous year.
(**) Estimates are based on the assumption that SMECA will grow at 30% with respect to the previous year. 




                                                                                                                                    44

(ii)        SMECA as a self-financing institution

The project was successful in building a self-financing institution. During project
implementation, SMECA developed the capacity to cover operational costs and liabilities
using its own funds and resources. As indicated in Table 18, SMECA's revenues and
resources (US$20.4 million) were sufficient to cover its operating costs and liabilities
during and at the expiration of the project.

According to the PAD, the project was expected to generate a net income starting from
the second year of the agency's operations (See Table 18). Unlike the PAD estimates,
SMECA incurred a loss during its first two years of operations, after which it experienced
a smooth increase in its net income.

Table 18. SMECA's costs and revenues in : actuals vs. PAD estimates
                               2004                       2005                   2006                       2007                  2008
                         PAD           Actual       PAD         Actual      PAD        Actual        PAD      Estimated*     PAD   Estimated**
Total revenue           1.047.100         35.613 2.225.584      734.219  3.350.878 2.012.104      3.695.395    3.212.618 3.923.859   6.334.400
Total costs             2.234.652        626.261 1.879.747 1.007.994     2.339.118 1.451.771      2.668.746    2.553.759 2.942.820   5.122.280
Net income             -1.187.552      -590.648 345.837 -273.775 1.011.760 560.333 1.026.649                     658.859 981.039 1.212.120
(*) Estimates for the last month of the year 2007 are a projection based on the actual data for the first 11 months of the year.
(**) Estimates based on SMECA's business plan for 2008 ("Normal scenario").
Source: SMECA and Bank's estimates.

At the end of 2007, SMECA will likely close the year with a net income of about
650,000. According to SMECA's "normal" scenario (see Table 19), the expected net
income for the year 2008 should be around 1.2 million. This shows that SMECA has
acquired the capacity to generate revenues at a level sufficient to cover its costs and
liabilities. In particular, the net income will allow SMECA to further reduce risk
premiums charged to its clients in conformity with its institutional mandate to support
exports a no worse than break even.

Table 19. SMECA's actual revenues and operating costs in  (End of year data)
                            2004                2005                  2006                   2007                   2008             2008
                                                                                          (Proj*)                (Est **)          (Est***)
 Total
 revenue                     35,613              734,219             2,012,104            3,212,618              3,212,618         6,334,400
 Total costs                626,261            1,007,994             1,451,771            2,553,759              2,553,759         5,122,280
 Net Income                -590,648             -273,775               560,333               658,859                658,859        1,212,120
 (*) Estimates for the last month of the year 2007 are a projection based on the actual data for the first 11
 months of the year.
 (**) "Conservative scenario" (i.e. SMECA performs the same volume and type of business as 2007).
 (***) "Normal scenario" (i.e. SMECA grows according to the projections of its business plan
Source: SMECA and Bank's estimates.

Finally, this analysis makes a step further and calculates the internal rate of return (IRR)
of the project, using net cash flows based on the PAD estimates and project actual data



                                                                      45

for the period of 2004-2008, as indicated in Table 18. The results of this analysis are
summarized in Table 20.

Table 20. Internal Rate of Return
                                  Actuals
         PAD                   (2004-2008)                 PAD              Actuals
      (five-year    Conservative         Normal         (four-year        (2004-2007)
       period)        Scenario           Scenario        period)

        49.5%           29.8%             39.2%           37.2%             13.43%
Source: SMECA and Bank's calculations.

An investment is considered good if its IRR is higher than the return expected by another
investment with the same risk. However, in the absence of a proper basis of comparison
(i.e., an investment with the same risk as SMECA), we can not conclude whether the
project has been a good investment by using this evaluation method.




                                            46

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                            Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Lloyd Edgecombe            Senior Financial Specialist          ECSPF Team Leader
Supervision/ICR
06/29/2006 Paula Genis     Operations Officer                   ECSPF ICR Team Leader
06/10/2005 Lloyd Edgecombe Senior Financial Specialist          ECSPF Team Leader
12/08/2004 Lloyd Edgecombe Senior Financial Specialist          ECSPF Team Leader
06/25/2004 Lloyd Edgecombe Senior Financial Specialist          ECSPF Team Leader
12/10/2003 Lloyd Edgecombe Senior Financial Specialist          ECSPF Team Leader
06/24/2003 Lloyd Edgecombe Senior Financial Specialist          ECSPF Team Leader
05/08/2003 Lloyd Edgecombe Senior Financial Specialist          ECSPF Team Leader
12/02/2002 Lloyd Edgecombe Senior Financial Specialist          ECSPF Team Leader


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                       No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                           2                          6.97
  FY02                                          23                        178.85
  FY03                                          13                         87.66
  FY04                                                                      0.00
  FY05                                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                                      0.00
                          Total:                38                        273.48
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                      0.00
  FY02                                                                      0.00
  FY03                                           1                         15.93
  FY04                                          19                        131.68
  FY05                                          15                         90.14
  FY06                                          18                         90.67
  FY07                                           9                         49.17
                          Total:                62                        377.59




                                             47

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable.




                                    48

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable.




                                  49

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                     50

51

52

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

I.      Assessment of the Implementation and Results under the Trust Fund of the
Italian "Programmatic" Trust Fund allocated through the World Bank Institute
(TF051193)22

A.      Capacity Building for the Serbia and Montenegro Credit Agency (SMECA) and
Technical Assistance to Serbian and Montenegrin Exporters (TF053355)

1. Context

This task was conceived in partnership with the ECA region. The Serbia Montenegro
Export Finance Facilitation Project created an export credit agency - Serbia Montenegro
Export Credit Agency (SMECA). WBI was requested by the region to support capacity
building within this proposed new institution using Italian Trust Funds under project co
financing arrangement with Italy. This parallel task was a collaborative effort between
the region and WBI. The objective was to use WBI's expertise in designing and
overseeing capacity building programs which were to be delivered by SACE - the Italian
official export credit agency. WBI and SACE collaboration and delivery of technical
assistance by SACE was formalized via a memorandum of understanding that specified
SACE's scope of work.

2. Objectives and Expected Outcomes of the Program

The main objective of the program was to assist SMECA develop the necessary skills in
operating a wide range of export finance facilities aimed at supporting private sector
enterprises engaged in import and export activities. The other main objective was to
improve the efficiency and productivity of exporters from Serbia and Montenegro by
providing training in export procedures and documentation, marketing, manufacturing
processes and procedures and supply chain management. The program employed a
combination of training, institutional twinning, as well as hands-on technical assistance to
enhance the capacity of SMECA staff in the key areas.

3. Description of the Program

The Program consisted of three main components:
    A. Training Activities for SMECA Staff in Four Areas:
        · Fundamentals of Country Risk Analysis
        · Portfolio Management




22This was part of an Italian "programmatic" trust fund for the FRY (TF050164), including an allocation
of then 1 million through the World Bank Institute (WBI) (TF051193), a cofinancing grant in the amount
of US$8.9 million according to the Grant Agreement, and an allocation of then 3 million through the Bank
Consultant Trust Fund Program.




                                                  53

        · Environmental Assessment
        · Insurance Underwriting, Claims and Recoveries
    B. Technical Assistance for SMECA Staff via Twinning Arrangement with SACE in
    the areas described in 3A. It also included development of a Factoring Facility.
    C. Exporter Workshops on basic aspects of export financing, such as international
    sales contracts, payments terms and conditions, financing sources, etc.

Expected Outputs were: (i) successful design and delivery of learning events; (ii)
comments and/or contributions to various sections of SMECA's Operational Manual; (iii)
a draft design (and operations manual) for a factoring facility; and (iv) needs assessment
and action plan for training of exporters.

Estimated Cost: US$548,930 of which US$495,845 from the Italian Trust Fund

4. Assessment of Outputs and Outcomes

    a. Outputs
           · Actual costs: US$491,106.41
           · SACE delivered the technical assistance as specified in the Memorandum
               of Understanding. Specifically, SACE delivered the following:
                    i. Design of five training modules for SMECA staff and one training
                        module for exporters.
                   ii. Delivery of five training programs (ranging from one week to two
                        weeks) to SMECA staff using the training modules.
                  iii. Two training events for exporters using the training module for
                        exporters.
                   iv. Technical support and advice to SMECA staff in development of
                        Operations Manual in the area of: Factoring, Country Risk
                        Analysis, Portfolio Management, Environmental Screening and
                        Review, and Credit Insurance underwriting/claims/recovery
                        handling.
    b. Outcomes.      The outcomes were satisfactory as evidenced by the Level One
        Evaluations of the training programs by SMECA staff and exporters.

5. Assessment of Bank/WBI and Borrower Performance

WBI delivered on the activities that it was asked to support. This program was an early
attempt by WBI to design capacity building programs in partnerships with regions and
official export credit agencies. Because of the newness of the activities as well as the
collaboration, initial teething problems in terms of arriving at a common understanding
and division of labor were encountered. This led to some initial delays. Special efforts
were also required to ensure that all parties thought not only in terms of the specific
technical issues, but also in terms of capacity building and transfer of know-how to
SMECA. Thus more time than anticipated was spent on deciding the contents of the
training program.




                                             54

6. Overall lessons learnt

Because the project was using a tied Italian funding, the Bank Group had to use Italian
institutions and consultants as delivery partners. While the final outcome was satisfactory,
it is possible that SMECA could have learnt more from a broad range of country and
institutional experiences if they had a broader choice of institutions to collaborate with.
Untied funding would have enabled the Bank Group to choose delivery partners most
suited for a specific technical issue.

The second important lesson is the need to factor in greater time and efforts in developing
a common understanding between the main stakeholders on training needs and priorities.

B.      Serbia Montenegro Export Promotion through Improved Competitiveness
(TF053505)

1. Context

Supporting the CAS for Serbia which called for the need of strengthening private sector
development to increase the country's competitiveness, WBI was asked to provide
capacity building assistance to local companies and export credit agencies to develop and
implement successful export strategies aimed at attracting foreign investors. WBI
assistance supported the overall World Bank Group efforts in Serbia on promoting
private sector development.

2. Objectives and Expected Outcomes of Programs

The overall aim of the project was to enhance the capacity of the local Serbian export
companies and particularly of the national Serbia and Montenegro export credit agency
(SMECA) to understand the main constraints to enhanced export capabilities and to build
their skills to develop a long-term strategy which will allow to successfully export in
global markets as well as to attract foreign investments. To do so, the program focused
mainly on assisting SMECA in building its credibility as leading export-credit agency,
develop a business strategy to better represent the interests of local export companies and
giving it the tools to better engage in multi-stakeholder dialogues with other actors.

The expected outcome of the program was to increase capacity of local firms and
particularly of SMECA to develop a sound business and marketing strategy that will
allow to better market its services among potential clients (such as banks, exports and
import companies) and to represent their interests.

3. Description of Programs

The expected outputs included the development of learning materials tailored to the needs
of SMECA and its clients as well as the development of long-term business and
marketing strategy.




                                              55

The expected outcomes included a greater understanding of which were the constraints to
enhancing export promotion in Serbia, as well as an improved capacity of SMECA to
represent the needs of its clients and interact with other stakeholder groups.

The program consisted of the following phases:

1. Assessment Phase: From a scoping mission to Serbia and following consultations with
local partners, universities, the Chamber of Commerce and SMECA, emerged the clear
need for strengthening the skills of SMECA and its staff to develop a marketing and
business strategy that will assist them to better promote SMECA services among its
clients and potential users.

2. Training of Trainers component: Building on the information gathered, the program
developed targeted learning materials focuses on a) how to increase the role of business
associations in improving local export capacity; and b) equip SMECA with the tools to
train its clients.

Emphasis was given to capturing and disseminating local Serbian and Montenegrin
knowledge and best practices in the learning tools.

3. Workshops: As implementation of the Training of Trainers component, the program
organized a series of workshops aimed at training SMECA staff on how to develop a
business strategy to better respond to the needs of its clients and at promoting the services
of SMECA to external clients (including foreign investors).

The overall TF allocation amounted to US$100,000.

4. Assessment of Outputs and Outcomes

    a) Outputs
             · Actual costs: Of the initial grant allocation US$82,716 were utilized for
                 the project implementation.
             · Inputs/Outputs: The program delivered a series of training sessions for
                 SMECA staff (exact number not available) on how to develop a long-term
                 business strategy. Ten SMECA staff were trained. The program also
                 assisted SMECA to organize the Annual Prague Club, held in Belgrade in
                 May 2005 which targeted representatives from export credit agencies, as
                 well local companies. In terms of output, learning materials were
                 developed.
    b) Outcomes: In terms of outcomes, the program contributed to strengthen the
        capacity of SMECA to better respond to the needs of its clients and position itself
        as one of the two leading Serbian export-credit agencies.




                                              56

5. Overall lessons learnt

The program was overall successful in its overall objective to build SMECA capacity.
However, given to the unstable political situation, the program faced several delays in the
program implementation.

C.     Serbia Montenegro Capacity Building Program (TF053506)

1. Context
The investment climate capacity building program (TF053506) was designed to support
the implementation of the Serbia CAS in the area of private sector development and
address the main constraints to private sector development, emerging from the Serbia
Investment Climate Assessment. In addition to the funding from the Italian Government,
the program was organized in partnership with the Bank's regional private sector and
finance department and the Government of Serbia.

2. Objectives and Expected Outcomes of Programs

The key objective of the program was to build the capacity of policy makers and
government institutions in Serbia to address the main constraints to private sector
development, emerging from Serbia's investment climate assessment through training
and sharing of international best practices. Target audience included policymakers,
government officials, representatives of the private sector and academia. The expected
outcome of the program was to enhance the capacity through increased knowledge and
enhanced skills of the Serbian government to effectively formulate and implement
regulatory reform and the barriers to private sector development in Serbia.

3. Description of Programs

This multi-year program focused on developing and tailoring content for the specific
needs identified, on building partnerships with local institutions, and on capacity building
and course delivery during the first year. The second year focused on continued course
delivery. The program consisted of following main components:

   · Workshops focused on Contract Enforcement, removal of Administrative Barriers
       and Private Sector Development

   · Training courses on Regulatory Reform and Regulatory Impact Assessments

Expected outputs included best practices and modules covering the main components of
the program; successful delivery of training and workshops; building partnerships with
local institutions including the Council for Regulatory Reform and an improved
framework for continuous and open policy dialogue and consensus building on
investment climate issues, including SME development, among the various stakeholders
especially between different levels of government and the business community, and to




                                            57

elaborate practical steps for improving the investment climate. The modes of delivery
will include face-to-face and distance learning seminars and workshops.

Estimated program cost: US$250,000 of which US$150,000 was covered by the Italian
Trust fund.

4. Assessment of Outputs and Outcomes

    c. Outputs
            · Actual costs US$172,00023
            · Inputs/Outputs:
                     i. Design and Development case studies and modules for the two
                        workshops and two training courses
                    ii. Delivery of two workshops and two training courses
            · Participants in workshops and training estimated to be 250
            · Consultants included local and international but funding of consultants
                under trust fund limited to those from Italy.
    d. Outcomes
            · Level 1 evaluations done for required events rated highly by participants.
            · Government of Serbia program on regulatory reform and regulatory
                impact assessments initiated to support the design and implementation of a
                regulatory reform strategy to improve the business environment.

5. Assessment of Bank/WBI and Borrower Performance

The specific needs and requirements of the government of Serbia were developed and
fleshed out in consultation with operational Bank staff in the Private Sector Development
group in Belgrade, and the government agencies and WBI delivered on the activities that
it was asked to support.

II.     Assessment of the Implementation and Results of the Technical Assistance
Provided by SACE (the Italian Export Credit Agency)24

Within the overall project for capacity building for SMECA, SACE provided specific
programs of training for both SMECA's staff and exporters from Serbia and Montenegro.

The main objects of the training activity were as follows:

1. Strengthen technical capacity at SMECA on both ST and MLT underwriting
techniques on the basis of SACE's consolidates experience;




23 The difference between actual costs was covered by other WBI funding.
24 This was funded under the TF053355 allocated through the WBI.


                                              58

2. Identify international best practices in areas such as risk analysis and portfolio risk
management; claims and recovery and factoring and develop possible lessons for
SMECA's activities;

3. Provide technical assistance to core exporting sector representatives with a view to
illustrate international standards in areas, such as quality certification, access to foreign
markets, and product marketing. This activity envisaged both training sessions and
missions to benchmark operators in the key selected sectors.

The results of the training activity have been very positive:

1. Key staff at SMECA is now acquainted and trained on recent techniques used in the
export credit insurance industry to originate and execute transactions;

2. International benchmarks and standards for risk underwriting and portfolio risk
management have been introduced in SMECA; and

3. Exporters have been provided with a useful network on contacts in Italy.

Despite a relatively good performance of the project, there have been a series of
underlying issues that have emerged. The main difficulties encountered during the
training activity can be summarized into two areas:

1. Insufficient technical capacity at SMECA resulting from lack of exposure to
international financial markets of the large majority of the staff. While the staff at
SMECA was keen to learn new techniques and understand the developments in the
export credit industry, in many cases there were limitations on the understanding of
recent innovation in financial markets that point to the need of specific training in these
areas;

2. Uncertainties about the specific mission of SMECA and particularly on how to balance
the quest for company's results with the role of public support to the internationalization
of domestic companies.

On the part of exporters, training performance was higher as a result of greater focus on
issues related to their immediate business needs. At the same time the main difficulty
encountered had to do with the relative small size of many exporting firms which limits
the scope for benefiting from economies of scale in product and process innovation.

Emanuele Baldacci
Chief Economist
SACE Spa
Piazza Poli, 37/42 - 00187 Roma
tel +39 06 6736682- fax +39 06 6789835
cell +39 328 9859304
www.sace.it



                                             59

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

EBRD Transition Report and Updates (2003-2007)

Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Transitional Support Strategy and its Update (2001 and
2002)

Enterprise Export Facility Project (P062936): Project Appraisal Document (May 1999)
and Implementation Completion and Result Report (June 2005)

Export Finance Facilitation Project (P074484): Project Appraisal Document (June 2002),
supervision mission reports, implementation status reports, other project and legal
documents

Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a Transitional Support Strategy Update for Serbia and
Montenegro (2004)

Private and Financial Sector Structural Adjustment Credit (P074486): Report and
Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to the
Execute Directors (2002), Implementation Completion Report (2003), mission documents

SMECA's annual reports (2004-2006)

The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International
Development Association and the International Finance Corporation Country Assistance
Strategy for Serbia and Montenegro (2004)




                                          60

61

62

