Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
og }M. -6vo - C* 9
Report No. P-4037-CRA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUbNT EQUIVALENT TO USS 235.0 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
SECCND RAILWAY PROJECT
April 23, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984          April 1985
Currencv Unit    =   Renminbi (RMB)    (RMB)
US$1.0                Y (Yuan) 2.32      Y 2.84
Y 1.0             =   US$0.43            USSO.35
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m       =   meter (3.281 feec)
km      =   kilometer (0.621 mile)
tkm     =   ton-kilometer (0.621 ron-mile)
pkm     =   passenger-kilomecer (0.621 passenger-mile)
kwh     =   kiiowatt hour (960.42 kcals)
CTK     =   Converted ton-km, -raffic unit (1 pass-km - I ton-km)
Mt      =   milLion tons
mtpy    =   million tons per year
ACRON'YMS
CIF   -       Cost, insurance and freight
CTC   -       Centralized Traffic Control
FCL   -       Full car load
FOB   -       Free on board
GFA   -       Gross fixed assets
GVIAO -      Gross value of industrial and agricultural output
ICB   -       International Competitive Bidding
LCL   -      Less than car load
MOC   -       Ministry of Communications
MOE   -       Ministry of Education
MR    -       Ministry of Railways
NFA   -      Net fixed assets
PBC   -       People's Bank of China
PCBC  -       People's Construction Bank of China
RRAs  -      Regional Administrations
SAA   -       State Audit Agency
SFYP  -       Sixth Five-Year Plan
TU    -       Traffic Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             People's Republic of China.
Beneficiary:          Ministry of Railways.
Amount:               US$235.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                20 years including 5 years of grace; standard variable
interest rate.
Project Description:  This will be the second Bank Group's involvement in the
railway subsector. The proposed project would make a
direct contribution to the Government's objectives of
increasing railway capacity to support economic growth
and of modernizing the railways management. The project
consists of the following components: (a) upgrading and
electrification of the line between Zhengzhou and Wuhan,
a 547 km central section of the Beijing-Guangzhou main
line, and a 72 km feeder line to the large coal mines at
Pingdingshan; (b) the first stage of a modernization
program of the pa3senger coach factory at Changchun,
which would provide technical assistance necessary to
increase the quantity and improve the quality of current
production and determine the investment needed for
production of a new coach design of 1,500 per year; (c)
assistance for new laboratories and staff training at
the Vhina Academy of Railway Sciences; (d) a Management
Information System study to lay the basis for improving
the railway's managerial and operational efficiency; and
(e) assistance to railway universities in updating their
curricula. The project has no particular risk as the
Ministry of Railways has successfully completed similar
projects in the past and the demand for both freight and
passenger transport is increasing rapidly as a result of
economic reforms being implemented by the Government.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officiail dutim Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriwiion.



- ii -
Profect Costs:                                   Local      Foreign    Total
(US$ million)
Zhengzhou-Wuhan line
Track upgrading                           132.9         63.2      194.2
Electrification                            93.2        108.4      201.6
Construction Equipment                       -           7.9        7.9
Techn. assist. & training                    -           0.5        0.5
Changchun coach factory                        1.3         7.2        8.5
Academy of Railway Sciences
Laboratories                                4.3         10.3       14.6
Technical assistance & training              -           1.3        1.3
Management Information System Study             -          0.5        0.5
Base Cost                               229.8        199.2      429.0
Physical Contingencies                        19.8         4.8       24.6
Price Contingencies                           71.4        43.9      115.4
Total Project Cost /a                   321.1        248.0      569.1
Financing Plan:
IBRD                              -        235.0      235.0
Government                     321.1         13.0     334.1
Total Financing             321.1        248.0      569.1
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank Group FY              1986    1987   1988   1989    1990   1991
Annual                      3.8    41.6   67.5    50.5   50.6   21.0
Cumulative                  3.8    45.4  112.9   163.4  214.0  235.0
Rate of Return: 25x.
/a Import tax and duties are not included in project costs and the Government
will not charge such taxes and duties on imports for the project.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the folLowing report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of China to help finance the Second Railway
Project. The loan for US$235.0 million equivalent would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, at standard variable interest rate. The
beneficiary of the loan would be the Ministry of Railways.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:  Recent Economic
Trends and Policy Developments" (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. An economic mission that visited China
early in 1984 is preparing a report on long-term development issues and
options, which is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors by May
1985. Basic data on the eronomy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        To address problems of economic inefficiency and structural imbal-
ances, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjustment in 1979.
Reform implementation proceeded most rapidly in agriculture and culminated
with the introduction of the "production responsibility system" (in various
forms), which gave households and small groups autonomy in production and
investment decisions and allowed them to keep most income earned after con-
tracted payments to the state and collective. By the early 1980s, the vast
majority of production teams in China had implemented such a system. Reform
of the urban economy started out much more slowly, but nevertheless sigai-
ficant systemic changes occurred, including bonuses for individual workers;
profit retention by state-owned industrial enterprises (at first on an experi-
mental basis); fiscal decentralization measures, which allowed provinces to
share in the benefits of increased revenues and gave them more freedom in
budgeting; and some decentralization of foreign trade authority. Adjustment
policies resulted in an increase in the share of consumption in GDP; a rise in
the share of light industry in total industrial output, substantial improve-
ments in living standards, rapid growth of foreign trade (particularly manu-
factured exports), and relatively modest (in relation to past trends) GDP
growth.
4.        A number of problems emerged in the process of reform and adjust-
ment, including large budget deficits in 1979 and 1980, deterioration of the



external position and a significant current account deficit in 1980, infla-
tionary pressures and some overt price increases, and excessive investment
demand resulting from decentralization of investment decision making and
financing. In response to these difficulties the Government imposed a stabil-
ization program in early 1981, which reLied mainly on administrative con-
trols. It resulted in a slowdown in growth, a reduction in price inflation
(to around 2% p.a.), a sharp cutback in buaget-financed investment, a lower
budget deficit (1Z of GDP in 1981); and a current account surplus of $1.5 bil-
lion in 1981 and $5.6 billion in 1982.
Economic Performance, 1981-84
5.        Economic growth picked up in 1982 with the resumption of rapid
growth of heavy industry and the rebound in investment. Overall performance
has remained strong, with real GDP growth averaging over 8% p.a. from 1981 to
1984. Shortages of energy, many producer goods, and construction materials
were exacerbated by the rapid growth of demand, yet price inLreases were
limited by further strengthening of administrative price controls (particu-
larly in 1983). Government budget revenue grew very slowly in 1982 (1.3%) but
much more rapidly in 1983 (7.9%) and 1984 (as much as 10%), due to a new tax
on enterprise retained funds and extra budgetary incomes of Government
organizations. This permitted an increase in budget expenditures on invest-
ment of 17% in 1983 and a further rise in 1984, while maintaining a relatively
small budget deficit (less than 2% of GDP in 1983). Growth of subsidies was
largely stemmed by stopping increases in most of the agricultural procurement
prices.
6.        Gross industrial output value grew at over 10% p.a. between 1981 and
1984, with heavy industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12% vs.
9%), a reversal of the 1978-81 pattern. The energy constraint on industrial
growth was eased by rising coal output (8Z p.a. in 1981-84), consistent annual
crude oil output at over 100 million tons, and improvements in the efficiency
of energy utilization (primary commtercial energy consumption grew only 60% as
fast as GDP in 1981-83). Agriculture has continued its very strong perfor-
mance, with gross agricultural output value rising at 9% p.a. in 1981-84 and
grain output at 7% p.a. (reaching over 400 million tons in 1984). Cash crops
and animal husbandry, stimulated by rising demand and attractive prices, have
also grown very rapidly.
7.        There have been impressive increases in personal incomes throughout
the period 1978-83. Average per-capita income in rural areas rose by about
12% p.a. in real terms and urban incomes by about 5% p.a. Rural income growth
was mainly due to production increases, efficiency improvements, and growth of
employment in non-agricultural activities, as well as substantial agricultural
procurement price increases (through 1981). Urban income growth, on the other
hand, can be attributed primarily to wage and benefit increases, which have
exceeded growth of laber productivity.
8.        Control of the aggregate level of investment and its composition has
continued to be a serious problem. Enterprise and local government investment
continued to increase sharply in 1982, far exceeding plan guidelines. In
1983, more stringent measures brought this part of investment under control



-3-
(though it still exceeded plan targets). But investment outside the rural
sector remains rather inefficient, and improvements in efficiency have been
hindered by administrative controls. Construction costs have risen continu-
ously (10% p.a. in 1978-83).
9.        China has maintained a strong external position.  The dollar value
of both exports and imports stagnated in 1981-83, but this masked considerable
increases in the volume of foreign trade. Since 1983, imports have grown more
rapidly than exports, and in 1984, exports rose by an estimated 10% while
imports increased by 25%. Manufactured export growth was slower in 1981-B4
than in 1978-81, but it started from a much higher base and occurred in the
face of worsening world market conditions. Foreign debt and debt service
ratios remained at very low levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5% respectively in
1983); China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion
(over 7 months' imports) by mid 1984 and have stabilized at that level since
then. The value of the Chinese renminbi declined by about 36% against the SDR
between the end of 1981 and late 1984 (60Z against the US dollar).
Recent Reforms
10.       Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of non-
agricultural activities such as processing, transport, and commerce.
"Specialized households" (which concentrate on one undertaking - often cash
crops, animal husbandry, or non-agricultural activities) and pooLing of
capital by small groups of households in various types of ventures are
becoming more common forms of economic organization in China's rural areas.
Wholesale markets for some agricultural products have emerged. To encourage
investment in land improvement and development, farming contracts between
collectives and peasant households (which typically had been fixed for no more
than 3-5 years) can now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985,
it was announced that planned procurement quotas for agricultural commodities
will be aboLished; more methods of financing investment in rural non-agricultural
activities will be permitted (including tax exemptions, local government
bonds, higher interest rates to attract more saving, etc.); and the growth of
the agricultural processing industry in coastal areas will be promoted.
11.       The momentum of urban reforms has revived, with significant progress
on several fronts. Since early 1984, the focus has been on broadening and
delineating the decision-making authority of urban enterprises. Profit
retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial enterprises and
to non-industrial sectors like transport, commerce, construction, and other
services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as well as a variety
of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have grown rapidly (the
number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from 150,000 in 1978 to
2.31 million in 1983).
12.       In financial reforms, the most important new development was the
implementation of a profit tax system to repLace profit remittances by state
enterprises to the Covernment budget. Though most enterprises have switched
to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the application of a
different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset the impact of



- 4 -
distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar probLems have resuLted
in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on the fixed
capital provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they have
hindered the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed investment,
despite strong Government support. Financial discipline at the enterprise
level remains weak, in spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing
systems and more strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
13.       In the crucial area of price reform, a major price adjustment for
textiles and textile raw materials occurred in early 1983; it helped balance
suppLy and demand, to a large extent equalized profit rates for synthetic and
cotton textiles (which are close substitutes in production and consumption),
and drastically reduced subsidies for cotton procurement, with only a small
net effect on the Government budget. Prices of many "minor" consumer goods
(which individually do not have a significant impact on living standards) and
the majority of agricultural commodity prices have been decontrolled and are
now set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20Z above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g. for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions (at largely uncontrolLed prices) has
increased in recent years.
14.       Reforms in the employment and wage system have made limited
progress. The bulk of urban labor is still allocated administratively, and
transfers of workers or professionals among enterprises are heavily impeded.
Numerous attempts are being made to link individual performance more closely
with rewards, including piece-rates, "floating wages," and various types of
contractual "responsibility systems." These have achieved some success, but
problems of egalitarian distribution of bonuses remain, and many enterprises
give out bonuses in kind or disguise them as allowances in order to evade
reguLations.
15.       China's foreign exchange rate system has been unified with the
abolition of the "internal settlement rate" (Y 2.8 to $1) at the beginning of
1985. Direct foreign investment (which was first allowed in the late 1970s
but developed slowly due to the lack of a legal framework) is being actively
encouraged and joint venture agreements have increased sharply. In addition
to four "special economic zones" open to foreign investment and subject to
more flexible policies, 14 coastal cities were recently opened up in the same
way.
16.       Significant steps have been taken to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management. The central banking functions of the People's Bank
of China were separated from its commercial banking functions (which were
given to the newly established Industrial and Commercial Bank of China) at the
beginning of 1984. The central bank relies on redeposit requirements and a



- 5 -
discount window to influence the operations of specialized banks, and even-
tually may use discount rates and interest rates in general as a flexible tool
of macroeconomic management. Adjustments in indirect taxes Irmay be used to
affect profitability and supply, in the absence of or as a supplement to price
reform. Scope for horizontal flows of investment funds is also widening, as
enterprises invest in each other and in joint ventures and as some individuals
purchase stocks. Though restrictions on secondary trading remain, Government
bonds purchased by individuals can now be sold to banks or used as collateral
for loans.
Long-term Issues and Prospects
17.       The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on urban reforms in October 1984, which reaffirms and consolidates
recent reforms and provides some general guidelines for the direction of
future reform. rt emphasizes the need for breakthroughs in: (a) enlivening
and better motivating urban enterprises; (b) clearLy separating Government and
enterprise functions (and limiting direct intervention by Government
organizations in enterprises' day-to-day operations); Cc) reforming the price
system; (d) improving incentives in the wage and bonus system; (e) establish-
ing a planning system that is in harmony with greater reliance on the market
mechanism and developing indirect macroeconomic management; (f) upgrading
managerial personnel to meet the new demands on them in a reformed economy;
(g) removing obstacles to a unified national market and promoting cooperation
and technology transfer among regions; and (h) expanding utilization of
foreign capital and advanced technology. Among the main themes of the
document are the role of competition in promoting a more dynamic, flexible
economic system; the recognition that a certain degree of income inequality is
necessary to provide better incentives for economic development; the need for
clear responsibilities and appropriate incentives at all levels in the
economy; and the recognition that thoroughgoing price reform must involve
liberalizing the mode of price determination, not just adjusting administra-
tively set prices. Managers of large state-owned enterprises, however, wiLl
still be appointed by the Government; a few key products will still be subject
to mandatory planning and distribution by the Government; state ownership and
control over certain institutions like banks and railways will not be
relinquished; and establishment, relocation, changing product lines, mergers,
and shutdown of enterprises will still be subject to Government approval.
18.       The Central Committee declaration represents a political commitment
to economic reform, which will help foster an environment in which fundamental
reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated way. But specific
policy measures will take a considerable length of time to design and then to
implement. Many of the reforms required will be very difficult, particularly
since reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appro-
priate sequencing and coordination are essential. For example, price reform
in the absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have
limited benefits, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from
tighter financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and



- 6 -
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Government-supported social service programs.
19.       China's objective of quadrupLing the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means CDP growth o' well over 6X
p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates. There will be major structural changes in
the economy over the next two decades, including a reduction in the share of
agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and possibly in that of services
(which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization (in smaller
towns if not in large cities). There wiLl also be a shift within agriculture,
away from grain and basic crops and into cash crops and animal husbandry.
20.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overaLl growth, since Land in China is severeLy limited. In energy,
shortages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain
growth in transport and commercial infrastructure. Without Large new
investments and improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. En mobilizing
resources in all these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign
borrowing. Finally, the rising share of the elderly in China's population
(related to the slowdown in population growth) means that more resources will
have to be devoted to maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the
decades after O000.
21.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be
addressed by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
sub-optimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
22.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a
beneficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to
the fore. Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary,
and other instruments is a major issue. In this context, maintaining an
adequate saving rate (if the Government no longer accounts for the bulk of
aggregate saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep cyclical downturns)
will be major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum standard of living for the
population and an appropriate level of social services will become a major
challenge as enterprise and rural communal responsibilities in these areas are
reduced. The problem of poor, backward rural areas in various parts of the
country will continue to require attention. Redistributing financial
resources through the fiscal system, easing restrictions on migration out of
the poorest areas, and lowering non-agricultural wages to make investment in
them more attractive are some options for alleviating poverty in these areas.



23.       The Government is in the process of finalizing its Seventh Five Year
Plan (covering the period 1986-90). The combination of potentially
fundamental reforms and the urgent need for large investments in many parts of
the economy to build the foundation for further growth makes this task
difficult. In order to mobilize the investment resources needed for rapid,
sustained economic growth and development, China will need to rely in part on
foreign borrowing.  Recognizing this need, the Government plans to gradually
draw down its substantial foreign exchange reserves and hopes to attract
foreign capital through a variety of channels. China also has a claim to
concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of the
world. But China's access co concessionary capital to finance development and
modernization is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount of
concessionary capital is likeLy to come only from Japan and a few other
bilateral donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a.
during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       For China to sustain rapid growth over the coming decades, with
increases in efficiency and innovation while maintaining equity in distribu-
tion, China will require continuing and fundamental reforms. These challenges
are compounded by China's large investment requirements and difficulty in
efforts to open up to the rest of the world. In light of this, there are
several broad objectives for the Bank to pursue in its relationship with
China. First, the Bank can offer China development experience and institu-
tional knowledge as well as opportunities for interaction with the Bank's
other member countries. Second, the Bank can assist China in removing major
constraints on development and in improving investment planning and policy
coordination in the priority sectors - namely energy, transport, other
infrastructure, human development and industry. Third, the Bank can assist
the Government in efforts to remove the remaining pockets of poverty.
25.       The Bank Group's strategy to meet these objectives is formulated in
line with China's broad development priorities and related issues outlined in
Part I of this report. However, Bank Group lending can provide only a small
portion of overall resource needs. As a key element of the stravegy, there-
fore, the Bank's lending operations will aim to create a substar.tial demon-
stration effect applicable to China's overall development efforts. For
example, projects involving new techniques for land deveLopment or for provi-
sion of social services have been designed so they can be repeated by local
authorities with their existing resources. Some of the agriculture projects
and rural health projects are examples of this approach. The introduction of
international competitive bidding through Bank projects (first to finance
goods, and later civil works) is being adopted by the Government for most
local purchases and many domestic construction projects.



- 8 -
26.       Bank assistance can help improve the efficiency of investment,
through introduction and dissemination of improved analytical techniques for
investment and project pLanning and through institution building. Preparation
of the project appraisal manuals for the China Investment Bank and the
Agricultural Bank of China, consultant assistance and the EDI-sponsored pro-
grams, as welL as specific sector work in transport, industry, health, educa-
tion and other sectors have improved the quality and content of project pro-
posals. Assistance to Chinese enterprises and agencies through staff train-
ing, consultant assistance, creation or reorganization of institutions, and
improvement of costing and financial management has been included in a number
of projects ranging from the ports and railway projects to the several educa-
tion and petroleum projects. Sector work in enterprise management, urban
deveLopment, health and industry has also provided assistance for improvement
of investment efficiency.
27.       Human resource constraints are a particularly serious problem for
China's development. There are severe scarcities of higher level trained
manpower. Substantial economic and sector work and technical assistance and
training components in most of the Bank projects are providing support. In
terms of poverty alleviation, the rural health project, proposed urban and
water suppLy projects and sector work on labor mobility and regional develop-
ment options address poverty, heaLth and equity issues.
28.       Transfer of technology in the broad sense is of fundamental impor-
tance in China's efforts to improve efficiency of the economy. Outmoded,
inefficient and costly industrial technologies are serious impediments to
development and are wasting valuable energy resources. Here, the Bank can
play the roLe of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry, agri-
culture and even education, the Bank can finance transfer of technology
through equipment imports, provision of foreign consulting assistance,
arrangement of training and promotion of licensing and other agreements such
as are now being discussed in the railways and other projects. Long-term
investment for new technology will require increased foreign borrowing in the
future and the Bank can assist China through cofinancing. Progress is being
made in introducing co-financing under the first and second power projects,
coal, urban, water, and some agriculture projects, and the Bank will continue
these efforts.
29.       For most of these elements of country strategy, however, progress
will be gradual and will require sustained Bank involvement over a series of
projects in various sectors.
Economic and Sector Work
30.       Economic and sector work in China was initially designed in part as
a learning experience to provide the Bank with a basis of knowledge on the
development and functioning of the Chinese economy. It also introduced the
Government to alternative ways of economic analysis and views about its
achievements.
31.       In the last four years, the above approach has been well received
and has fostered economic and sector work that is responsive to the problems



- 9 -
of adjustment and reform. Follow-up to the first economic report emphasized
technical assistance and sector work for investment analysis and selection
techniques and enhanced sector planning. The content of the lending program
has been direccly influenced as a result. The rural credit project, the China
Investment Bank projects, and future regional industry projects are examples
of the links between economic and sector work and the Lending program.
32.       More fundamental research by the Bank in collaboration with Chinese
economic research institutions into the problems of enterprise management is
nearing completion. The research has yielded insights into the attitudes of
enterprise managers toward system reform and has led to better understanding
of how policy changes can improve planning, performance and management of
enterprises.  In addition, the:e is a variety of pro5ect-related sector work
underway through studies included in the projects. These are expected to
produce the basis for detailed discussion of development options and poLicies
in the various sectors.
33.       Current economic work focuses on future options and issues to the
year 2000. A comprehensive report will be ready later this fiscal year. In
light of the experience of other countries in making the transition from low
to middle income levels, the report will pay special attention to inter-
sectoral Linkages and cross-sectoral and economy-wide issues.
34.       Future economic and sector work will be based on the conclusions of
the economic report and will look in more detail at some of the issues
raised. It will continue to improve our knowledge of the economy - its struc-
ture, the issues and constraints in key sectors, and the functioning of the
economic management system. Collaboration with Chinese research institutions
on issues of institutional and policy change will continue. Review of the
investment program in key sectors when the Seventh Five Year Plan (1986-90) is
finalized will help develop the next generation of projects for the lending
program.
Lending Operations
35.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in May of
1980, 24 projects involving lending of $2,391 billion to China have been ap-
proved. Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and credits as
of March 31, 1985. For this fiscal year we expect to present a total of
twelve projects to the Board. These include: the already approved projects
for Second Agricultural Research, Second Power, Second University Development,
Changchun (Luan) Coal Mining, Seeds Development, and Rural Water Supply; the
proposed Second Railways Project; and other projects in roads, fertilizer
production, forestry, Pishihang-Chaohu area development and gas engineering.
36.       For FY86 and beyond, the China lending program should continue to
grow from current leveis. Areas of emphasis would include development of
energy resources, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and improved
technology. We will also investigate the feasibility of a regional approach
in a number of sectors to take better accourt of inter-sectoral linkages.
37.       In the transport sector, railway, port and road capacity must be
substantially increased. So far, one project each in ports and railways has



- 10 -
concentrated on increasing capacity, upgrading technology for lower cost
operations, and establishing better costing systems. This would continue to
be the focus of effort in the Second Railways Project. Expanding domestic
capacity to manufacture improved transport equipment wiLl continue to be a
theme in the sector and this should provide scope for substantini foreign
private sector involvement. Improved management and information systems and
analytical techniques for better cost controL will be encouraged under the
proposed and subsequent projects, which, once proven, will be suitable for
wider use throughout transport enterprises. Intermodal coordination and
planning and assessment of alternative investment choices will have increasing
prominence in both lending and sector work.
38.       In the energy sector, lending has included six projects, which have
emphasized increased energy output and technology transfer through financing
of equipment, technical studies, training and consultant assistance. The
Lubuge Hydropower Project has resuLted in the Government's extensive use of
competitive bidding for power projects. Fuel alternatives for electric power,
generating plant location and interconnection of power grids will be the
subject of future work. For development of China's petroleum and coal
resources, Bank Group assistance is emphasizing acquisition of appropriate
technologies, Least cost planning of investment and related transport
investment programs.
39.       In agriculture, six projects have emphasized support services
through improved research and education, production increases through new land
development, reclamation, use of improved technologies and management,
strengthening of the agriculture credit system and seeds development.
Projects in forestry and agriculture credit will continue to strengthen sup-
port services and rural institutions. Land and area development projects will
endeavor to provide models of integrated regional development. Specialized
activity projects such as fisheries, livestock and agro-processing may also be
developed to support ongoing structural transformation in agriculture.
40.       In the industrial sector, two projects have focused on establishing
and strengthening the China Investment Bank. Improved investment selection
criteria, incentives for more efficient management, technology transfer, and
energy conservation are priorities for future projects. Lending will have a
two-pronged approach - further s-rengthening of the China Investment Bank (and
perhaps other financial intermediaries) and financing large regional produc-
tion-oriented projects such as for fertilizer, machine tools, and cement, to
expand output and demonstrate the merits of improved subsector ana'ysis and
planning.
41.       Further expansion of higher education and improvement of teaching,
curricula and graduate quality will be needed to the end of the century. The
human resource constraints have already been addressed by five education
projects and a component of the Rural Health/Medical Education Project. The
value of international competitive bidding for equipment purchases and of
international advisory panels for educational policy and curriculum reform has
been demonstrated in the first projects. Improved university management is
being encouraged through establishment of quantitative targets for growth,
student-teacher ratios, classroom utilization, laboratory experiments



- 11 -
performed, and other reforms (including development of evaluation and
monitoring procedures and greater decentralization). Projects in health,
urban deveLopment and water supply will assist the Government in addressing
difficult poverty-linked questions of affordability, cost recovery, and
minimum standards with focus on particularly impoverished regions.
42.       Implementation.   Project implementation is generally proceeding
well. There have been some initial delays in procurement because of the
Covernment's unfamiliarity with the concept of bidding, but these are now
being addressed through a central procurement agency.  Most project agencies,
as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning Commission, have
established and staffed offices to handle Bank Group projects. To support
further expansion of the lending program, accelerate project preparation,
improve project implementation, and facilitate further economic and sector
work, the Bank Group is planning to open a resident office in China early in
FY86.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
43.       Like other centrally planned economies, China's transport system
exhibits a high freight intensity, measured in ton-km dollar of output, and a
low personal mobility in its population. This high freight intensity is
explained partly by: (a) China's economic structure, with the service sector
accounting for a very low share of GUP; (b) the historical emphasis on heavy
industry, requiring the movement of ores, steel, and other bulk products; and
(c) the high level of energy consumption per unit of output in China's
industry; energy use per unit of GDP is two and a half times that of other
low-income developing countries.
44.       Traffic Trends.  Domestic freight traffic in 1983 reached 1,006
billion ton-km, almost a fourteen-fold increase since 1952, or an average
annual growth rate of almost 9%, systematically higher than the growth of
domestic product. The modal split has moved toward a more balanced use of
modes, but the railways still handle 66% of the traffic, versus 82% in 1952;
this predominance is expected to continue for quite some time. By the year
2000, domestic freight traffic could be in the range of 3,000 billion ton-km
or about three times the 1983 level.
45.       Passenger traffic reached 310 billion passenger-km in 1983, a
12.5-fold increase since 1952 and an average annual growth rate above 8%.
Since 1978, growth has averaged 12! p.a., well above twice the overall rate of
economic growth. It is likely that this growth would have been more rapid if
it had not been constrained by the limited capacity, particularly of the
railways to offer more passenger services. Despite the rapid growth of
passenger traffic in recent years, the mobility of people in China is still
much lower than in countries of comparable income levels. By the turn of the
century, passenger traffic in China may well reach about 1,500 billion
passenger-km. per year or about five times current levels.



- 12 -
46.       Invescmencs.  Over the period 1953-80, some Y 110 billion, or 15X of
all new investment under cencral government control went to transport.
Compared to other countries, the annual investment in China's transport sector
has been somewhat low, and this has made transport a bottleneck to economic
development. For example, in 1983, 10 miLlion tons of coal had to be stored
in Shanxi for Lack of transport, and some of the stock-piled coal was
destroyed by spontaneous combustion. These coal inventories have now been
reduced somewhat, but only by curtailing production to match available
transport.  Rural areas are short of transport both for agriculture and for
commune and brigade enterprises. In the ports, lack of proper handling
facilities is preventing the import of buLk fertilizer, while for grain the
ship waiting time has exceeded 15 day. at some ports, resuLting in large
demurrage charges. In che forthcoming decades, a much larger effort will be
needed in transport if bottlenecks to economic development are to be avoided.
47.       Port traffic has grown rapidly since 1976, reflecting the economic
opening of China to foreign trade. Annual growth has averaged over 11%.
Domestic coastal shipping and inland water transport also increased substan-
tially. As a rebult, ports became congested despited commendable efforts to
achieve high productivity. A major effort to modernize ports started in the
early 1970s and continues with particular emphasis on container and bulk
terminals, the latter mainly for coal. The Bank's first transport operation
in China was the Three Ports Project (Loan 2207-CHA, November 1982), which
includes container terminals at Huangpu, Shanghai and Tianjin, and a coal
berth at Huangpu. A second port project, which will provide ten additional
berths at Tianjin, is now being considered for Bank financing:
48.       The highway network comprised 915,00 km in 1983, of which about
173,000 km are asphalt paved, about 510,000 km are gravel/sand paved, and the
remainder are earth roads. Despite impressive expansion of the network since
1949, the roads in China today are inadequate because: (a) pavement strength
and quaLity are poor; (b) there are many thousands of kilometers of extremely
rough macadam-surfaced roads with average daily traffic in excess of 300
vehicles; (c) congestion is severe near cities due to mixed slow and fast
moving traffic; and (d) there are gaps totalling about 4,000 km on major
national roads linking large cities and provincial capitals. The road network
and road transport in China today can therefore be characterized as
underdeveloped. Road maintenance, however, is well organized and currently
absorbs much of the attention and resources of the provincial and other road
authorities. Except for western China, the highway network is still very much
a system of feeder roads to the railways. The Bank's first highway project in
China, which will involve the construction or improvement of about 230 km of
national roads and about 1,400 km of rural roads, was negotiated in April
1985.
49.       Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s.  The Sixth Five-Year
Plan, 1981-85 (SFYP) approved in December 1982 ,includes Y 27.5 billion (16.2%
of the total) earmarked for transport sector investments. The railways are
scheduled to receive 63% of this amount. The plan document does not directly
mention issues in the transport sector, but a number of other recent
publications give a fairly consistent picture of some key problems. The most
important sectoral issues at this time are: (a) the capacity constraints for



- 13 -
both freight and passenger traffic; (b) the appropriate economic role of the
various modes and in particular the modal allocation of short-distance
traffic; (c) the management of the transport system, including policy,
planning, coordination, and pricing; (d) the modernization of technology for
both infrastructure and vehicles; (e) the conservation of energy; and (f) the
training and development of staff in all the above matters.
The RaiLway Sector
50.       RaiLway Facilities and Rolling Stock.  China's railway network more
than doubled in size between 1949 and 1983, from 21,800 route-km to 51,600
route-km. The netwnrk now incLudes 9,200 route-km of double track and 2,650
route-km of eLectrified track. Further double tracking and eLectrification
works are in progress as present line capacicy is insufficient to meet traffic
demands. The rail network is served by a fleet of '0,000 locomotives, 260,000
freight cars and 15,000 passenger coaches. At present, 75% of attractive
power is still steam, 22% is dieseL and 3% is electric. Rolling stock
includes large numbers of older wagons and coaches. many in poor condition and
with high maintenance costs. Traffic growth has outstripped production of new
units and the fleet is far from adequate.
51.       Operations.  Despite the limitations of network and rolling stock,
rail operations in China utilize track and equipment intensiveLy and
efficiently. Freight traffic density averages 13.8 million net ton-km per
route-km which is the second highest freight density in the world after the
Soviet Union, and 50% higher than freight density in the United States.
China's passenger traffic density of 3.7 million passenger-km per route-km is
also the second highest in the world, this time after India. Passenger
traffic density in the Soviet Union is roughly the same as in China, but in
the United States it is only 0.1 million passenger-km per route-km. Despite
this heavy traffic density, track and other fixed installations are carefully
maintained although the labor-intensive methods now used will become
inadequate to handle the heavier traffic planned for the future.
52.       Scope for utilizing track and equipment even more efficiently is
mostly limited to lengthening trains (freight car turn-around is already very
quick and it would be difficult to improve upon the present average of 3.3
days.) The average train now has 35 cars as 75% of passing loops are only 650
meters long. Most of the remaining 25% of loops are 850 meters long, which
allows 50-car trains to run in some regions. A program is underway to extend
passing loops in more regions.
53.       Traffic.  Rail remains the major carrier in China's transport
sector. In 1983, rail freight accounted for 665 billion ton-km of total
domestic freight of 1006 billion ton-km and between 1950 and 1983 rail freight
increased more than 17 times: freight tonnage increased 12-fold to 1,188
million tons and the average haul distance increased over 40% to 560 km.
China's freight traffic is now the third largest in the world after the Soviet
Union and the United States.
54.       The growth in rail freight traffic between 1950 and 1983 averaged
9Z p.a. Since 1978, traffic growth has slowed to around 4.5% p.a. as traffic



- 14 -
has saturated existing line and rolling stock capacity. However, 1983 traffic
already reached the SFYP forecast for 1985. Three quarters of all freight
traffic involves the movement of ten important basic or intermediate
commodities (including coal, iron and steel products, grain and construction
materials) and the shortage of freight capacity has emerged as one of the key
constraints to economic growth: shortages of electricity suppLy capacity are
estimated to be loosing China up to 20Z of potential industrial output and
freight capacity to serve the power sector is an important part of this
constraint.
55.       The Covernment is aware of these impediments to growth and is
placing special emphasis on developing the energy and transport sectors. As
part of the Government's program to expand capacity, the first railways
project in China financed by the Bank (Loan 2394-CHA, March 1984) is helping
to provide important new rail lines, to double track and electrify sections of
existing lines, and to double domestic production of electric locomotives to
120 per year. The Ministry of Railways is also taking steps to increase
freight car production.
56.       Passenger traffic grew from 24 billion passenger-km in 1950 to 310
billion passenger-km in 1983 and rail is again the most important carrier. In
1983, rail accounted for 57% of total passenger travel and the railways trans-
ported 1060 million passengers, eight times more than in 1950. Most of the
increase in rail passenger traffic occurred with the opening of the economy
and the start of system reforms between 1978 and 1983. In just these five
years traffic increased to 177.3 billion passenger-km at an average
10% p.a.. The growth in total passenger traffic was more than double GNP
growth and shows the high priority afforded to personal travel out of the
extra income generated by the economic reforms of the late 1970s.
57.       Although this growth in passenger traffic is formidable, the mobil-
ity of people in China is still low. Annual per capita mobility in India
averages about 800 passenger-km, much more than China's average of about 300
passenger-km, despite India's lower per capita income. Partly this low mobil-
ity is because of a shortage of transport infrastructure; on the railways
there is an acute shortage of passenger coaches. Even though trains are very
crowded, many would-be passengers are now turned away for lack of space.
Demand probably will continue to exceed capacity for the foreseeable future:
even if the 1978-1983 income elasticity of rail travel of 1.3 subsides to
unity as income increases, China's coach production of 1,200 per year will
satisfy only half the demand increase that would be generated by planned
economic growth of 7% p.a. and it is unlikely that coach production can be
increased quickly enough to make good all the shortfall.
58.       Tariffs and Costs.  In  common with other sectors, railway charges
changed little since the early 1950s. Freight rates were increased in late
1983 for the first time since 1967 at which time they had been reduced.
Passenger rates, though, remain at the 1967 level. The 1983 freight rate
increase doubled the minimum chargeable distance to 100 km, and increased
rates for 75%. of freight (including coal, oil, cement and fertilizer) by
23%. The present average freight haul of 572 km yields average revenue net of
sales tax of Fen 1.68 per ton-km, 75% above average operating costs. The



- 15 -
average passenger journey is 169 km and this yields net revenue of Fen 1.78
per passenger-km, 65Z above average operating costs. As part of the First
Railway Project, MR is now carrying out a comprehensive costing study.
59.       Although operating margins are high, the railways are an integral
part of Government and have until recently remitted all earnings to the
State. In 1983, a package of broad financial reforms was put into effect for
all state agencies and enterprises, to encourage and incroduce better manage-
ment and new concepts and incentives. The railways, even though not an enter-
prise, are now liable for a sales tax set at 15Z of gross operating revenues
and income tax at 55Z of net profits. A certain share of after-tax profits
has to be remitted to the State as well. Overall, the effect of the reforms
has been to substitute tax revenues for direct profit remittances to the
State. In 1983 the railways contributed Y 4.8 billion (US$1.7 billion) to
State revenues.
60.       Organization.  The railways employs 2.7 million people; 1.6 million
in railway operations and 1.1 million in industry (MR operates 68 factories
producing locomotives, rolling stock, etc.) in capital construction (new
railway track, bridges, electrification, workshops, housing, etc.) and in
various support services (education for example). Central control of the
railways is vested in the Ministry of Railways, though operations are managed
by 13 regional administrations, seven fewer than in 1983. Each regional
administration is headed by a General Manager and consists of eight depart-
ments and at least three sub-administrations concerned with operations.
Management is generally effective though management techniques are somewhat
out of date.
61.       The Ministry of Railways has six design bureaus and seven construc-
tion bureaus. All of these are adequately staffed with skilled workers and
management (unskilled labor is recruited locally for each project). All pro-
ject designs are tailored to the labor intensive construction methods appro-
priate in China, and construction work is done to a good standard. Projects
have mostly been completed on or ahead of schedule without cost overruns. Two
of the design bureaus are specialized. One deals with track electrification
and has prepared all China's electrification projects to date (about 2,650 km)
using technology wideLy used in developed countries, i.e. 25kV-50Hz. Another
bureau specializes in major bridge design. The remaining four bureaus deal
with general design. Of the seven construction bureaus, five deal with
general construction projects and two are specialized: one in tunnel con-
struction and one in factory construction.
62.       Education and Research.  Under the coordination of the Ministry of
Education, the Ministry of Railways operates 10 universities, 20 colleges for
in-service training and more than 2,000 schools with 100,000 teachers and
staff. Seven of the universities provide technical courses, two provide
medical courses and one is a teacher training college. Most of the ten now
offer graduate programs. For high school graduates unable to enter univer-
sity, MR operates more than 60 intermediate technical schools which train
locomotive drivers and other operations staff. MR's other schools provide
primary and middle education for an enrollment now exceeding one million.



- 16 -
63.       The Ministry aLso operates the ten research institutes which
comprise the China Academy of Railway Sciences. Mostly, the institutes are
concerned with applied research and acceptance tests on new products procured
locally and from abroad, but the institutes also provide instruction to
Masters and Doctorate Levels. The institutes are seriousLy cuncerned about a
number of raiLway operating probLems which they are iLl-equipped to research,
but which need prompt attention because of the traffic disruption the problems
are causing. Excessive rail wear, the cracking of concrete sleepers and
design shortcomings in some types of rolling stock are the most serious of
these probLems.
64.       Budgets, Accounts and Audits.  The railways annual capital budget is
prepared by MR within the sectoral allocation of resources decided by the
State Planning Commission. Some of MR's tax remittances to the State are used
to finance railway investments directly and to service debt contracted for
railway investments. But in common with other sectors, MR's budget allocation
is no longer limited by the amount of uncommitted state resources. Following
its recent economic reforms, the State will, when necessary, now provide
foreign loan financing to sectors to sustain its desired level of investment.
65.       An annual recurrent budget for the railways is prepared first at the
sub-administration level, then at the regional administration level and is
then finalized by the Ministry. Regional capital budgets are coordinated
centrally by the Ministry's Planning and Statistics Bureau, which is
responsible for all investment planning.
66.       Accounting procedures are based on a double-entry accrual system.
Their most unusual feature is a dual system of depreciation: a basic
provision of 3% of the cumulative historic gross value of assets, and an
additional provision for major repairs of 3.5%. Some part of the extra
provision would normally be charged to working expenses and the current
practice probably understates MR's net asset base and overstates its earnings
position. A review of the dual system of depreciation is part of the overall
review of MR's accounting plan being conducted under the First Railways
Project.
67.       The Ministry of Railways has a "Financial Checking Division" that
performs internal auditing and checks the correlation of revenue and expend-
iture with planned allocations. The People's Bank of China is MR's paying and
collecting agent. It keeps a close record of budgetary allocations including
their subsequent adjustments; its inspectors regularly check the use of funds
by MR. The People's Construction Bank of China fulfills a similar role for
investment funds. External auditing will in the future be undertaken by the
newly-established State Audit Agency (SAA) which has the status of a Ministry
and reports directly to the State Council. The SAA is progressively taking
over responsibility for auditing all Government departments and state-owned
enterprises.
68.       Investments and Planning.  China's railways investments fluctuated
considerably throughout the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s because MR's budget alloca-
tions were tied closely to total State revenues, which in turn varied with
China's rate of economic development. More recently, recognition of the



- 17 -
important role of the railways in the development process has fostered a long-
term view of the need to develop railways capacity and budget allocations are
now less arbitrary. The Sixth Five Year Plan (1981-1985) aims to increase
coal carrying capacity from western provinces to China's east coast, to
relieve constraints on lines on the eastern seaboard and to develop passenger
traneport in the most populous provinces. Accordingly, after falling to
Y 1.5 billion in 1981 during the period of budgetary stringency, rail
investments were increased to Y 3.7 billion in 1982 and in 1983 to Y 4.2
billion, over half the total investment in transport of Y 7.2 billion, but
still far short of the level which would be needed to alleviate bottlenecks.
69.       Within the Ministry of Railways, investment planning is the
responsibility of the Planning and Statistics Bureau. Proposals for
expansion, new production capacity and new technology are developed by the
Ministry. Total investmenc amounts and priorities are determined by the State
Planning Commission. New technologies, system expansion, imports versus
increased production and total investment levels and financial options are all
key issues to the sound future development of China's railways.
70.       Government Objectives and Bank Goals.  The Sixth Five-Year Plan
C1981-1985) allocated Y 72.5 billion to the transport sector, 16.2Z of total
investments.  Of this, Y 17.3 billion was for investment in railways.  These
resources have facilitated considerable development of the rail network, but
not enough to keep pace with China's rapid economic growth. The present
saturation of the rail network and the constraints this imposes on further
economic growth have brought into sharp focus the important role transport
plays in the development of all main sectors. If China is to achieve its goal
of quadrupling the gross value of industrial and agricultural output (GVIAO)
by the year 2000, the railways expansion and modernization must be accelerated
so that limited capacity does not hold back economic growth. The resources
needed for an adequate level of investment are now much larger than could be
provided from China's previous practice of funding all investments from within
the sector. Some further expansion of investment financing through loans,
both domestic and foreign, is desirable for the higher economic growth if
would facilitate.
71.       The Bank Group's strategy for the subsector is to support the
Government in increasing the capacity and improving operations and efficiency
of its railways and in further developing MR's technical and management
capabilities. The first part of the strategy is to be responsible to the
materiaL needs of China's railway system as they arise; the second part is to
help better equip the subsector with the expertise it needs to meet the
increasing and more complex demands being placed upon it. Thus, the strategy
is a balance between helping to provide sufficient transport capacity to match
economic growth and to improve MR's ability to manage future developments of
the railway system.
72.       Through this and subsequent projects, the Bank hopes to work with MR
in almost every aspect of railways planning and operations. The Bank will
concentrate its efforts in the following five areas where it can have most
effect:



- L8 -
(a) capacity and suitability of infrastructure and equipment;
(b) manufacture and maintenance of infrastructure and equipment;
(c) financial management;
(d) management structure; and
(e) technology transfer and education.
PART IV - The Project
73.       In December 1983, the Government requested Bank assistance in
financing urgentlv needed rail investments to increase railway capacity. The
proposed project was prepared by the Government and Bank staff; it was
appraised in October/November 1984. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5512-CHA,
dated April 22, 1985) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project
data are given in Annex III of this report. Negotiations were held in
Washington on April 8-12, 1985 with a Government delegation led by
Mr. Wang Lian Sheng of the Ministry of Finance.
Project Objectives
74.       The project would make a direct contribution to the Government's
objective of increasing railway capacity to support economic growth. The
project would increase railway line capacity in Central China on the important
route between Zhengzhou and Wuhan and increase the production of passenger
coaches. In addition, the project would strengthen applied research, continue
the modernization of MR's management techniques, and advise on improvements in
university curricula.
Project Description
75.       The project comprises the following five components:
(a) additional line capacity on the 547 km Zhengzhou-Wuhan section of
the Beijing-Cuangzhou line, one of the most important transport
arteries in China;
(b)  improvements in production technology and increases in coach
production at the Chungchun Passenger Coach Factory;
(c) assistance in development of the China Academy of Railway Sciences
with new laboratories for materials and equipment testing;
(d) a Management Information System Study in a selected area of MR; and
(e) technical assistance to MR's universities to strengthen curricula
and meet MR's changing technology and management needs.



- 19 -
The five subsections which follow give a brief summary of each of the project
components.
76.       Zhengzhou-Wuhan Upgrading and Electrification.  This section is in
the central part of the Beijing-Guangzhou main railway artery, which has the
second highest traffic density in China. The section has already reached ics
maximum practical capacity (about 37 million tons p.a. in the north-south
direction) and is now a severe bottleneck for transporting both freight and
passengers. Three alternatives were considered for increasing the capacity of
this section: to build a new line in the mountainous region between Xinyang
and Cuangshui; to use foreign diesel locomotives, instead of the present 50/50
mix of steam and domestic diesel locomotives; or to electrify the line.
77.       Electrification was found to be the Least cost solution and accords
with MR's long-term development plan to electrify all lines carrying very
heavy traffic. Adequate electric locomotives co serve the line would be
produced by the Zhuzhou factory, supported in part by the Bank's First Railway
Project. This component of the Second Project would include:
(a)  track lengthening (from 850 m to 1,050 m) at 59 stations and
increase of the loading gauge at 18 bridges on the Zhengzhou-Wuhan
section;
(b) electrification of the 547 km double track section and of the 72 km
single track feeder line from Pingdingshan (the site of a major coal
mine now being expanded) to Mengmiao, on the Zhengzhou-Wuhan
section;
(c) expansion of three marshalling yards along the Zhengzhou-Wuhan
section;
Cd) provision of construction and maintenance equipment for the overhead
catenary system; and
Ce) technical assistance and training in design and construction of
electrified railway lines.
78.       Changchun Passenger Coach Factory (CPCF).  The Ministry of Railways
has four coach faictories, which together produce about 1,200 coaches p.a. The
largest is the CPCF. It was established in 1950 to produce 1,000 passenger
coaches p.a., but has never been able to produce more than 700 p.a. because of
a combination of various technical and managerial shortcomings. Bank
assistance was requested by MR for developing a program to correct these
deficiencies and eventually to increase production capacity to 1,500 coaches
per year. The Ministry of Railways also would like the program to improve the
quality of the coaches produced to make them more durable, so that major
overhauls could be spaced at 12 to 15 years intervals instead of the six years
interval for the current model. The Changchun factory produces the most
common passenger coach used in China. It is a basic design with a compact
hard seat arrangement and is equivalent to a third class coach in other-
countries.



- 20 -
79.       The activities supported by the project cover the first stage of a
two-stage program to modernize CPCF.  The objectives of this first stage
are:
(a) technical assistance to CPCF, to increase current production and
improve coach quality;
(b) training of CPCF personnel in modern technical and management
practices;
(c) preparation of a feasibility study on the expansion of production;
(d) development of a new coach design adapted to Chinese conditions; and
(e) provision of welding and surface treatment equipment and production
machinery.
The factory would be expanded under the second stage of the program, possibly
supported by a subsequent project.
80.       The Ministry of Railways has selected a suitable partner (British
Rail Engineering Ltd., U.K.) who would help in the design of a new generation
coach, plan the work needed to expand production facilities, determine which
equipment to purchase, and assist CPCF from production start-up to achievement
of full output. The selection of this technical assistance was carried out in
accordance with Bank guidelines under terms of reference agreed with the
Bank.
81.       China Academy of Railway Sciences.  The Academy is the main railway
research center in China and the prime quality control body within HR, for
both domestic and imported equipment and materials. It is fairly well-
equipped for meeting basic research needs and employs 3,665 people, 2,046 of
whom are technicians covering a wide range of specialties. In 1978, the
Academy started a university level education program with eight specialities
leading to the Bachelor's degree level and two to the Ph.D. level. To date,
58 students have obtained Bachelor's degrees and 102 postgraduates are
currently enrolled.
82.       Two new laboratories are needed to test rolling stock and track
components.  The Association of American Railroads assisted MR to select the                =
basic concept of the laboratories, but the Academy needs further assistance to
finalize the design, prepare tender documents for ICB, carry out procurement
and set up the facilities.  Selection of a suitable consultant is under way,
in accordance with Bank guidelines, and with terms of reference agreed with
the Bank. This component will include:
(a) consultant services as defined above;
(b) provision of equipment and instruments to equip the laboratories;
and
(c) training of Academy staff in fields related to the laboratories.



- 21 -
83.       Management rnEormacion System Study.  To act efficiently, managers
at all levels must be provided with adequate and timely information. At
present, not all MR managers have access to the information they need; others
are presented with too much which obscures what they need to know. To better
tailor information flows to the needs of managers throughout the railways and
the related factories, a Management Information System Study is proposed which
would do four things:
(a) record present information flows to each level of management;
Cb) determine for each level of management what is the minimum of
essential information;
tc) recommend both improvements to present information flows and ways of
speeding up the flows; and
(d) assist MR and the factories to implement the improvements, including
the provision of computer hardware and software.
84.       In addition to streamlining and accelerating flows of information,
the study wilL provide an opportunity to review MR's managerial functions and
to amend them where appropriate. The ultimate objective of the study is to
heLp improve the overall management and operations efficiency of the railways
and related factories.
85.       The study's ambitious objectives will take several years to research
and implement and therefore probably will be spread over several Bank proj-
ects. The study team wiLl be formed by the end of 1985 and the study is
expected to start in earLy 1986. The study will be carried out in accordance
with terms of reference agreed with the Bank and upon completion of each phase
MR will furnish to the Bank a copy of the report for review and comment
(Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement.)
86.       Education.  China's rapid economic growth has led to a shortage on
high level manpower throughout the economy. In the railway subsector the
shortage of manpower is particularly acute. High traffic growth has been
accompanied by further improvements in technology as more lines are converted
to electric traction. China urgently needs the new capacity that will be
provided through electrification and MR needs to have the managerial and
technical capabilities to accelerate capacity expansion if the railways are
not to impede economic growth. This will mean maintaining peak management
efficiency whilst strengthening MR's ability to take full advantage of the
contribution which new technology can make in MR's growing investment program.
87.       While MR's skilled manpower will increasingly be provided from
China's wider university system, MR's own universities will continue for many
years to supply the majority of MR's new high level staff. There is therefore
a need to improve and strengthen curricula at MR's universities in areas where
new technology, through complementing traditional work practices, could
facilitate investment planning and help further improve the efficiency of
railway operations. This is a particularly opportune moment to explore the
universities' needs, since there are potential overlaps and complementarities



- 22 -
between their work and that of the Academy. For this purpose, the project
would include an international panel of six specialists to assist KR in
reviewing and strengthening curricula of MR's universities. The panel would
have three tasks:
(a) to compare the numbers of graduates and their mix of skills with the
subsector's likely future needs;
(b) to determine areas of MR's planning and operations where new
technology are most relevant and, in light of these;
(c) to review and recommend university curricuLa improvements to provide
MR with better qualified high level manpower in areas of new
technology and economics/finance, management and planning.
88.       Training and Technical Assistance.  In conjunction with each of the
five project components, an extensive training program has been set up under
which Chinese railway staff will study and gain practical experience abroad
(about 810 man-months) and foreign trainers would spend about 117 man-months
in China, mostly giving instruction in new technologies and modern management
practices. In addition, technical assistance will be provided to the Changchun
Passenger Coach Factory and to the Academy of Railway Sciences. The total
cost of the combined program is about US$7.0 million or 3% of the proposed
loan. Technical assistance will be contracted according to Bank Guidelines.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the training will be
carried out in accordance with the agreed program (Section 3.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
89.       Cost Estimates and Financing.  Detailed designs are completed for
all project works. Quantities were derived from final engineering, and unit
prices are based on current world market prices for equipment to be
imported. The cost of equipment and materials to be procured locally and not
to be financed by the Bank was estimated on the basis of current domestic
prices, but shadow pricing was used for the economic analysis. The estimated
project cost, expressed in April 1985 prices and including training and
contingencies is about US$569.1 million, of which US$248.0 million represents
direct and indirect foreign exchange costs. The Government has requested a
loan of US$235.0 million which would cover about 95% of the estimated foreign
exchange cost. It will finance other materials, equipment and construction
costs from its own resources.
90.       An average of 6% physical contingencies is included for all project
costs.  For the calculation of price contingencies, it is assumed that
eschange rate adjustments will, on average, be made to maintain "purchasing
power parity" during the project implementation period. On this basis, price
escalation for both foreign and local costs: (a) when expressed in US
dollars, is based on expected international inflation rates of 5% in 1985,
7.5% in 1986, 8Z in 1987 to 1990, and 5% in 1991; (b) when expressed in Yuan,
is based on expected domestic inflatioa of 3% p.a. in 1985-1991. Price con-
tingencies thus represent 25.4Z of base cost estimates plus physical contin-
gencies expressed in US dollars, and 10% of the same total expressed in Yuan.



- 23 -
91.       The proposed Bank loan wouLd finance:
(a) for the Zhengzhou-Wuhan line electrification: rails, other steel
products, timber and cement, transformers, copper wire, insulators,
power and signalLing cables; design and construction equipment; and
technical assistance and training;
(b) for the Changchun Passenger Coach Factory: on-site technical
assistance and training by the foreign partner and training of
factory production and management staff abroad; the foreign cost
involved in the development of a new coach design and its engineer-
ing; the production of three prototypes and the transfer of know-how
for the new coach; the preparation of a feasibility study on the
expansion of production facilities to 1,500 coaches per year; some
basic items such as welding and surface treatment equipment; and a
limited number of machines tools, urgently needed by the factory
independently of the new design chosen;
(c) for the China Academy of Railway Sciences: the foreign exchange
cost of the technical assistance program; equipment and instruments
to equip the new laboratories; and the training of Academy staff in
fields related to the work to be performed in the new laboratories;
and
(d) for the Management Information System Study: the foreign exchange
cost of study tours; technical assistance; and computer hardware and
software to implement the new MIS.
92.       Project Implementation.  Upgrading and electrification of the
Zhengzhou-Wuhan line will be carried out by the railways' own forces. This is
common practice with uark on .iaes with heavy traffic. The Ministry ,f
Railways is well equipped and has experience in this type of work. In this
case, the Fourth Design and Construction Bureau will be responsible for track,
station and yard upgrading and the Electrification and Automation Bureau for
installing electrification equipment. Implementation of the other components
of the project will be carried out by MR with the help of competent consul-
tants (para. 88). The project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1991, and the Closing Date of the proposed loan is June 30, 1992.
93.       Procurement.  Procurement of materials and equipment for electri-
fication works and of equipment for the Changchun Passenger Coach Factory and
the China Academy of Railway Sciences will be subject to international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement,
except for a number of small items worth less than US$100,000 per order and
LGtalling less than US$2.0 million, which would be purchased on the basis of
quotations received from three potential suppliers. All packages for
equipment subject to ICB (about 95% of the total amount) will be subject to
the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. In bid evaluation,
Chinese manufacturers will be allowed a preferential margin of 15X of the CIF
cost of competing imports, or the relevant prevailing level of customs duties,
whichever is lower.



- 24 -
94.       For items not financed by the Bank, Government procurement proce-
dures will apply. Such items comprise civil works, various locaL materials,
and miscellaneous equipment. The civil works involved in this project are not
suitable for ICB. They include a large number of small concrete foundations
for the catenary masts all along the line to be electrified, and clearance
adjustments on 18 bridges; these works have to be carried out under heavy
traffic.  Other civil works include Lengthening 59 crossing loops by 200 m
each, and adding more tracI' in three marshalling yards. Delivery of major
materials such as rails, other steel and cement is independently arranged by
the owner and supplied to the construction bureaus.  In this case, such
materials are to be procured through ICB and financed by the Bank loan.
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Project Element                 ICB                   Other             Total cost
Civil works                     0.0                  291.2                 291.2
(0.0)                  (.J)                 (0.0)
Materials                      97.1                   33.5                 130.6
(97.1)                  (0.0)                (97.1)
Equipment                     128.9                   11.3                 140.2
(128.9)                  (2.0)               (130.9)
Services                        0.0                    7.1                   7.1
(0.0)                  (7.0)                 (7.0)
Total                      226.0                   343.1                569.1
(226.0)                  (9.0)               (235.0)
95.       Disbursement.  Disbursement of the proposed loan would be as
follows:
(a)  100% foreign expenditures of the CIF cost of imported equipment ar4
materials;
(b) 100X local expenditures of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured equipment and materials; and
(c) 100Z of the cost of technical assistance and overseas training.
96.       Domestic transport from port or factory would not be eligible for
Bank financing. Any savings under the loan would be cancelled unless
otherwise agreed with the Bank. Disbursements against training and contracts
for goods and services valued at less than US$50,000 each would be made on the
basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). To facilitate disbursements for
these items, a revolving fund will be established with an initial deposit of
US$500,000. Documentation supporting the SOEs will not be submitted to the
Bank but will be kept in the project office in Beijing and made available for
review by the Bank's supervision missions.



- 25 -
97.       Disbursements are expected to start slightly slower but proceed
slightly faster than the standard profile. Disbursement experience with the
First Railway Project has been good thus far.
98.       Environment.  No negative impact on the environment is anticipated
from the project. The electrification of the 619 km section between Zhengzhu,
Wuhan and Pingdingshan (presently steam and diesel operated) will signifi-
cantly reduce pollution in the area.
99.       Recent Financial Performance.  The operations of the Ministry of
Railways (MR) have been highly profitable.  The following table shows the
system's actual 1982 and 1983 and estimated 1984 financial results.
1982           1983           1984
Actual         Actual         Estimate
Cash working ratio (Z) /a              36              35             37
Total working ratio (Z)                54              52             52
Operating ratio (Z)                    70              67             66
Rate of return on average
net fixed assets in use (Z)          6.5             7.6            8.3
COC gross budgetary revenues
from the railway (Y bln)             4.2            4.8             5.4
GOC budget expenditures for
railway investments (Y bin)          3.7            4.6             4.5
GOC net budget revenues
from railways (Y bln)                0.5            0.2             0.9
/a   Ratio of cash working expenses, excluding major repairs, to sales
revenues, net of sales tax.
100.      Until recently, most of the net earnings of MR were remitted to the
State and formed part of general State revenues. Retentions were permitted
for only a small number nf clearly defined purposes. Capital investment and
working capital were financed exclusively from the State budget. Investment
levels were not related to net revenues earned by MR. Investment priorities
were determined nationally by the State Planning Commission, and were made
with reference to national and plan needs, not with reference to MR's greater
financial capabilities.
Possible Future Performance (1985-1995)
101.      Recently, China has introduced budget loans for capital investment
projects, and pronouncements by Chinese leaders suggest that this will play an
increasingly important role in the funding of national investment programs,
including that of MR. At the same time, more autonomy is gradually being
delegated from the State Planning Commission to ministries and enterprises for
the development of their own investment plans and priorities and the manage-
ment of their own finances. For the railway, it is possible - though by no



- 26 -
means certain - that in the pursuit of such reforms, the Government will
consider adopting a different form of organization for the operational part of
MR which would emphasize its self-accounting character and would convey a
somewhat greater degree of autonomy to its management.
102.      Even if this does not happen in the near future, it is appropriate
that MR should increasingly focus on questions such as the scale and pace of
its expansion program, the appropriate mix of local and foreign loans and
budget contributions to finance this expansion, and the relationship between
its tariffs and the growth of traffic, investment, tax and other dues to the
State, and debt service. Until these basic policy questions have been
resolved, it is not meaningful to attempt to quantify MR's future financial
performance. However, the prudence with which its affairs have been conducted
in the past encourages confidence that its future policies will be soundly
based.
103.      Under the First Railway Project (Loan 2394-CHA, March 1984), a
dialogue on railway finances was initiated between MR and the Bank. Up to the
present, this has productively emphasized current financial performance, new
financial concepts, and links to planning of each year's operations and
improved management systems. These are areas where the Bank's substantial
international experience and methodologies of planning and analysis can be
particularly useful to the Ministry, but they are also sensitive areas in
which the Bank should not expect to move quickly. The focus of our dialogue
should gradually be broadened to include development of an investment program,
its financing, and the implications for the railway's financial situation; but
progress can be expected only gradually and only to the extent that the Bank
can be seen to be offering useful and practical advice in the Chinese
context. Therefore, no specific financial performance requirements or
investment plan reviews have been included in this project.
104.      Financial Benefits of Zhengzhou-Wuhan Electrification.  The
financial implications of this component of the project have been assessed by
comparing the line's operating costs and revenues with and without the project
through 1995. Without the project, line traffic would be restricted to 33.8
billion net CTK, whereas traffic projections indicate that with the project
the line would carry 46.4 billion net CTK in 1991 and 56.3 billion net CTK in
1995. With the project, revenues in 1991 wouLd be Y 669.7 million and net
revenues would be Y 207.5 million; more than four times the net revenue of
Y 46.5 million which would be earned without the project.  By 1995, net
revenues with the project would be Y 317 million; over six times what they
would be without the project.  Electrification would also improve the rate of
profit on the line:  without the project the line's operating ratio in 1991 is
expected to 90%; with the project it would be 69%. By 1995 the operating
ratio with the project would improve further to 65%.
105.      Financial Benefits of Changchun Passenger Coach Factory
Development. In 1986, CPCF will discontinue production of its present coach
model in favor of an interim model, which would be produced through 1989.
After 1989, production of the new design coach will start and gradually build
up to 1,500 per year. It is estimated that the interim coach will cost
Y 156,000 to build and will sell for Y 187,000 and that the new design coach



- 27 -
will cost Y 162,000 and sell for Y 200,000. On the basis of these figures,
CPCF estimates that through 1991 it would earn a 42% rate of return on average
net fixed assets in use. Details of this projection are in the Project File.
106.      Audits.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations rhat project
accounts and the financial statements of (a) the Zhengzhou and Wuhan railway
=       subadministrations; and Cb) the Changchun Passenger Coach Factory, will be
audited in accordance with sound accounting practices by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and that audit reports would be sent to the Bank for
review not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (Section
4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Bank currently accepts SAA (para. 67)
audits for this purpose.
107.      Benefits.  The project would make a direct contribution to the
GovernmentT plan for providing the increased rail transport capacity that is
essential for sustained economic development. By electrifying the Zhengzhou-
Wuhan section of the Beijing-Cuangzhou line, the project would provide more
capacity to move coal frDm the rich fields of Shanxi and Henan provinces to
the major consuming points that lie to the south, thereby easing the serious
energy shortages in that region. Regional trade in grain and other essential
commodities and passenger travel would be facilitated as well. By helping to
increase production at the Changchun Passsenger Coach Factory and improve
coach quality, the project will help satisfy some of the rapidly growing
demand for passenger travel. Further production increases and quality
improvements wilL be facilitated by engineering studies of an improved coach
design and by a feasibility study of expanding the Changchun factory which are
also included in this part of the project; this further production expansion
could be the subject of a subsequent Bank loan. The proposed project would
also provide new research and quality testing facilities for the China Academy
of Railway Sciences which would be used to investigate a number of serious
operating problems on the railways (excessive rail wear and sleeper cracking,
for example). Finding a solution to any of these problems would further
increase the efficiency of railway operations. In addition, the project would
help further develop the subsector's technical and management expertise
through the Management Information System study and through updating
university curricula on the advice of a panel of specialists to include more
new technology. Project benefits would thus be well spread throughout the
economy.
108.      Overall Evaluation and Risks.  Overall economic evaluation shows
that implementation of all project components is well justified and should
proceed without delay. The overall ERR including the costs of the research
and the training components and the costs of complementary investments in coal
mines and other equipment is estimated at 25Z. The electrification works
involve proven technology that is already in wide use in China and elsewhere
in the world: technological risks are therefore small. Similarly, the
project at Chungchun carries little risks, since the foreign partner is an
established coach builder. In addition, MR has successfully completed similar
projects for a number of years; risks from inadequate project implementation
and operation are therefore negligible. The constraint placed on China's
development by tight energy supplies insures that the Government will continue
to focus on coal transport, just as the recent reforms in agriculture suggest



- 28 -
that transport of agricultural products will continue to be vital to the
economy. Passenger travel also has an important and constructive role to play
as the economy grows. Thus the risk is very low that the benefits of the
project would fall substantially short of projections.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
109.      The draft Loan Agreement between the People's Republic of China and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
llO.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. A special condition of loan effectiveness is that China's State Council
shall have approved the Loan Agreement.
111.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
112.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 23, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-29-                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
CYlll.  o       O.5 U7Ot - w .IUICA         DATA *ST
CElllA  rIOPLZS U. OP                UFImN  COUPS (IIQ103un     AVIUAsIS) /a
HOST                 (mOT 3ICUIT ESThIAU) b-
33CKIW     ~LOW ERCdmS          Him"    111-
z9utkb      197aotk    ZSTDIULb    ASIA 8 PACIFIC            AsIA 6 PAciFIC
TOTAL                               3381.0      ,s6i.0        9381.0
AURICLTO3AL                         3257.8       3642.0       385.9
cw In carf (to")                         40.0 IC      80.0        310.0          278.0                    1091.2
vm=  inornuu  a cairn
(czwauAS or OIL F4OIVALET)           191.0        250.0       412.0           272.0                     567.3
orPuLATION.MIDT4AR (THOUSANDS)    6700. 0    843700.0   1008175.0
Ulm  POPUlATION Z1 0f TOTAL)          18.4 /d                  20.8            21.7                      IL
POPMUTlOJ cnxrls
POPMLATION I 1TM  2000 (DULL)                               1118.3
STATIOUAET POPUlATION (MILL)                                161.0
POPMLATION Ngamma                                              1.7
PoratAnou DCSITT
taR So. m.                          71.9         U .5        103.8           16b.8                    281.9
P   SO. mX. ACI. LAND              211.1        217.9        256.8          345.5                    1735.1
POrAlAXSTI!ON  E S1330M  (2)
0-16 us                            3J.9         37.7         30.9            35.8                     39.0
15-,s   3s                          58.3         57.2        83.3            59.8                      37.8
65AN  ASCY                           4.8          5.1          5.5             6.3                      3.3
POPULATflON GRWTH KMT (Z)
roTaL                                1.j          2.1          1.5             1.9                      2.3
a                                     -            ..          ..             4.1                       6.3
CD  SIar    UTE (PER 2T1o)            39.2 /a      34.0         18.5           27.7                      30.1
CRUDEt STE MATE (DEL Tom)             23.5 1-      10.1          6.6           10.1                       9.5
Gamss mbODfCSTON 16T1                  2.8 7a       2.3          1.2             1.8                      2.0
FAULT PLANIlNG
aCWTOSS. ANNUAL (TIOUS)               ..
OS1U  CZ OF  URILD WI01)              *-           *-        89.6 7f           *-                      52.7 
FOO Am nwines
1150 OF POOD PRlOD. Pn CAPITA
(L98f-71-100)                           ..        100.0        124.0          112.8                     123.0
aC CAPITA SauPLr OT
cFatus (S OP EQUIRBKNTS)            93.0         88.0        107.0           97.7                     116.6
METINS (GRS PR DAT)                 56.0         53.0         8.0            56.8                      57.0
or NICI U      AUL  ND PULSE      16.0         16.0         17.0fjA        14.9                      16.1
CUfID (ACES 1-A) D=E lATEZ            26.0         14.0          7.0            9.8                       7.2
LIFE MuE. AT 311m  (TEAMS)            61.0 l       52.3         86.5           60.0                      60.4
SACT mor. NAE (FP   21)    * 165.0                1 109.0       67.0           83.8                      ".3
ACSS TO Sn WATE  (13OF)
TOTAL                                       ..               41-0            32.9                      37.0
1111                                  ..          ..                         70.9                      54.8
5L                                    ..          ..        3,0              22.1                      26.4
ACGESS TO ECflEA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 I..                       .1.                                    61.3
Mn                                     ,           ..          ..            72.3                      67.4
30.                                   .            . *6                                                .33.3
POPUATON PER PITCIAN                8390.0 /1    3830.0 11    1810.0 Il      3464.2                    7769.4
POP. TM UUSLIG 350                  '050.0       2870.0      1790.0          4793.1                    240.4
POP. Pl  OSPITAL ED
TOTAL                             1060.0        760.0       690.0          1066.5                    1004.2
3A                                 210.0           .        160.0           296.0                    651.2
iEL                              10160.0           ..        1020.0        5993.6                    2594.6
M555095 In UOfTAL RED                    .           .            ..                                     27.0
-SD
V155  SIE 0r HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..'..                    5.2
AVERAGE 30. OF PDESONSIZOOH
TOTAL                                                     ..                 ..
W                                     ..          ..           ..              .. -
mau                                   ..           .....-
T,TAL                                                      ..                 ..
SEAS                                  ..          ..           ..              ..                        ..-
ma...



-30-                                      ANNEX I
Page 2of 6
NOW                   cs s ucws *nstmn)
x.moLl    ~ ,i.a  usrazzk          iAS   a PACIFIC       Mu2  a Paturic
ftW*W.   TOTML                      100.0         L10.0        L1.0             91.6                      102.0
HALS                          ...                     U.              105                         0.
VUW.I  ..    ..        105.0            03.7                       954.
SUCSOAVL TOTAL                       21.0          23.0         44.0            35.6                       46.6
rVALZ                       ..            ..         5.0             2.                        43.1
Yoc23a1 (a or S          T)               ..           ..          2.2             2.1                       17.5
PVPZL-ZTACIR RATIO
luh                                     ..           ..         25.0            D.1                        31.5
*UaSEASI                               ..            ..         17.0            15.7             .         23.5
AT IJZISACT am5 (tS                    43.0 Id         *H.0                       33.4                       72.9
Sup   S  CARS/TU         or              ..            ..          0.2             O.9                       10.1
UD10 lzU/J/T Duu3%   top                 ..          14.2        123.3           IIU.1                      113.6
Ti RICKIvz SiuI saa S  op                ..           ou.         27.'            15.7                       30:1
hEWPAPER (1.UZL! CCL5AL
Iurn2S~) C2RCULATIOu
rn  TO        POPMATION                ..            ..           ..            1.2                        53.9
CID  ANUAS ATlU/CIST                     ..            ..           ..             3.6                        5.4
101*L 1ro  FE  CTMOU)              32144.0      360555.0      473465.0
FUSZ  (PUNdIT)                       25.3         23.0          37.2            33.3                       33.5
lLT   (1cZT)                      ..           ..         6.9               .6                       52.2
1803sm     (rfCCIET)                   ..            ..         U.7             15.8                       17.9
PASrzczt*TZaM lATE (PERCENT)
TOML                                 66.5          45.0         47.0            42.6                       36.7
ALE                                  55.           54.5         57.2            54.7                       50.6
f>Ltw                                27.o          35.0        32.0             29.8                       26.6
EWUoSGiC DEIzUoTUC  RATIO               0.5           1.0          0.5             1.0                        1.1
g.aC ortonT          ooo m                                            .               . 
TEC2r or nsIvan IOCME
EECTEID By
1g1T        OF O    OS                 ..            ..         12.5              ..                       22.2
Loan  20SO   300 L                     ..            ..         .a                  ,                     4,
1.3ST 203 er 100533010                 ..            ..          4.8 n            ..                        6.4
MUT 601 or   0                                                   O - ..  15.4     -             .          15.5
Prmr  UNLT  -RUP
LEKL .23S rFI CAPITA)
2*2                                    .                                       133.9                      118.6
R L                                    ..            .I ..                     111.&                     152.0
esneDM snTIZ roT  s
LZS (US  FM CAPITA)
U3.                                    ..            ..           ..              ..                      177.9
3UA                    ..                            ._           ..              ..                     14L4
ZSTIATED POP. sELOW 380101
POUR?  suca  L1 (Z)
,maha               ..            ..           ..            43.5                      23.6
303*1.                                 ..            ..           ..            51.7                      37.7
NOT AVAZLALL
NOT APLICABLE
O 3 0 s3
/a   Te greep avrages fart ach ludicagtr are paieeatl.."Iuhbre4 aritbmtic Seem    Cawrae of Countris own  Usr
SudJeAcora de,.da on avalLabLIlty of data au  la met inlere.
/b    Wa1sst etkeriie Lnote   -D.za for 1960  r  a-r to m, pear betwee. 1U59 and 1961: 'Dtes for 1970  between 1o  md
1971. mU data for Ibatc lcetc Zarlmat.  betwee  1950 md 1962.
It  Interpolated 1957-42 dats;  Id 1964;  Ia 1955-1965 arae:  /t ?ere.as e of AU marrie  "M* of Chlild bagrim
age practicing cotrtacopcio.nl;  U-977;  /b l953564 aerae;  'i kelor dactar of  _csger mediclne;
Distribtion of pepl        m eSm de per capita iacr . 1979 data.
* A11 pamelati. *ld vital ctS acl  age leoo  eatletere udick difter fre  _1aeaffical atatistic*a
Porml e*era_a1 only: e; 0,aS-9aerl e1MISL   is *eheGtaila.
-' DmifLMLa au  cavuraga dter trrr te- of 1Ma_ official eetaLltic.
I&. 1J66



-31-                                                    ~~~~~~ANNEX I
-deln      3eL -tPae   3ofn
aces,   cet~   ie dec en den em.aPln sl   ct  ec   OPk ..t  eiesiectia cmf   alOs. to bmltsd click  bbces tied tierW -y i 5Mb  Mlisseiettchl
jensple ke.. de. tad.5 eecieeiect d  bite..0   bilenceyt  .55 b,dl. itflsess       tc.  -L ailesce    Ns i.e..  lIh ems. eu.ss.es.efel 
anne. e..c cv esesecce.   sia. issUe. end ceccesta  nueel  misc  -lleen   en   e                 -le.
ti  elsipse. ga.   a  Is  eb6. en eas.,  anee    ahbjec                "Ins cM   U    case,k pies. sighs .nmcbe bl.  ess ero lece  ibm  te Ltny  cuIelte
estrjeL  a... L..e   s    i   Isse  at  il.n*s  cu..          a Isi    se  lIen eesidesae   elSIe te Llie               ekrucierp.  eeealee
sdti5e1    ste  eccescs,cc.i.accee   pcellt  mptd   tlkeceea                                cb  Ssnc        c     ale sAc. mjc-lcp bd 2eb eameel.J. Is
eras he ieee  ee abet1514cc.   tea   tie  .s.r.p   ei I eeee.e  b se  U...e  Iped  e- I         lile    let   tt               l."' c"'te  ne"b
cn.ccid  s uLe..cp   smsec  cc se  isilcesee S. -neck. The   eueaecal   ae  I. ceme91lb. ieae  ef. en Isteee  et I isa n-sci  a. eietle
%     eec  nIf..'                 Liss  -llasIeAtn-Mla-Fe14elM-d                                                            dIshed by ..6     1 eL.-eeIe.
- Seed.selee.e.  teeseadec.e   oe   cec  as                                             fSffh tase             d.etea  a,1b ebe satep, ta.   -61
retre. utte   e          atdc senmse ee1 eele lsee  N.                   bialep, icts.ei  bistyt.      lsk. I         UA     IP-iIT6 il
aI-en  en  seL.  .  b    reSLiibil kcpsecle  tmea.   sated .  kele  ad.sbili
teItl-eel   p... scsata .  ..n.e.s                   scacl ctteo e  geuascp seii P.               ues-1eee. cic5      ied
bc..
A.- f                                       m~~~~~~~~.ecsea ef ceetkL mnipec.eubmecmtjpel   .ad ce
eree ee IcIs  mc-se  6   ict -eat..t .ee  tetetpc.stmc.         i         ca       e-nl.. eeec. Lb     .8I t.iautdeete   chr  5 lue a   euc
dttterst deemtee ascC   usaa. tlt.t uccer.ettt.ctdet              ece eie.a te, ce....   ate..1 "b-.epea                  sb  etit
caerCiua *'                    e  c.                                                  tie saesee -Wer      L, eccessis ,li'use. -l               .-
'Viz_                  -,~eere.L:e,e    s    ueue     -e   ..;.q..                aeea
ad ts*5n.eekm- eed  .ceettu      e.taece. r.raeescu.  bm           Is.s,ueca   e-..c    csetce
uerslc ta ru'cc. m ...t . tee .-Ti ruse......l  eic. 5rtc   sptde.ci
ecece   preecel  u.rnter  eecs.rttte.mite es.rtese6 eun  eec.clad etue
et.rs   ucIc...   ee easer. te iLs  es..t.elel      e  tbes cecsIs...'I
Lstt.meI     . I resee -       cute ereci  e  rusjee .I. ecrp-                                                                  bs  aareseacirsp.t
mainee c. u sces  e~ ee  en-usceme  rsetac        ett~jtx~nssll!iiah~nstr!it- Cus. ttel  sea  ad  eaS
eetieseesmet  ses. en.   Cus prsc. sem. psesremle  csetmtt          cer
"cs   ..   t.esesaie   e   etees   es   ccce.r   eelesrrteaa.stt   ehc.eaee   edta
rer.datn   sc..t    5 'as ers.lemn.eiecete  ec  e  e.eae.le    het iject               lee   .- itcec    bip cIrLeseect           e
Ie  ejet i Ir        syt.ct,tetesrctem  lessse   .   t                                    esiisee   esue   aeceaelsea   sedI    ri
ceae.  cd aser. 5sssutt.r  ue..ett. heeasatesc  .5triets  se  ntI  cu  ba e en  te efttstecet  ci
tecessI es  urs!tsd  cetsmecmeclme eluie usm.iemee m tie  .e      seers .e.eeL -U scee   seea    sLc - "Iseyes 4acee. ce.scd1s
cam  adesscec  . dem L  .1cr tIle  eteme ceasset  cce.          dccctnrscste c  Ie.c  eesse   ecteeeadcuser  iaucIls
ceulcsIs.aces.,- 5  li  seEen   crcermeta e.usieeseiiccreeec  cs.cs. ssecnelIa  eecer  rcttseaeeuesaeacc
cesc  saee. im.releen.mecaSettierte  ssce5ss.  he               cptseceirectesemtentees  sseumdcs   atn  u
as sc.ese  sese  rrpsem.  ee eerecedets.  im         eneklenedd
-cc.  Ide....                                                             t~p~5e.mte5 .... IltAtsVpf  - tinessiedea   nn&td e
sils. sea. cml e.g m~~~5t des -
caee         L-1 re.-c.s-e.L    se   ie    ce  .emlte                               elt-eett



ANNuEX I
- 32 -                                                'P     ofrK  4 a  6
Populatlon    i  1,008 dillion (mid-1982)
CyP per capita-  U85310  (1982)
CHINA - ICONOKIC INDICATORS
Annual graoth (a) at conatant price
Indicator                                     1957-70   1970-77   1978       1979       1980      1981       1982      1983       1984
(eatimte)
Production
Gross output
Agriculture                                 2.2       3.4       9.0       8.6        3.9       6.6      11.0        9.5
Light indu.try                              8.3       7.8      10.8       9.6       18.4      14.1       5.7        8.7
Heavy industry                             11.6       9.3      15.6       7.7        1.4      -4.7       9.9       12.4
Net Material Product (NMP)                    5.2       4.8       12.4      7.0        6.1       4.8       7.4        9.1         ..
1957      1970      1977       1978      1979       1980      1981       1982      1983
Prices
Retail price index (1970-100)   92.2       100.0     102.7     103.3      105.4      111.7     114.4     116.6      118.3/h
N14P deflator       (1970-100)   90.7      100.0      99.1     100.5      104.5      108.4     110.5     110.9      iii.87T
Exchange rate       (V1US$)       2.46       2.46      1.86       1.68      1.55       1.50      1.71       1.89      1.9ET
Amount                                                             Average annual growth
1982                  Shares of CDP (1)                          (Z) at constant prices
National Accounts           ($ bin)      1957     1979     1982      1985     1990      1957-70   1970;79   1979-82   1982-90
-  -     -      7-          -        ~-7;--   --7;--
GOP                          264.5       100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0          5.8       5.8        5.1       6.5
Agriculture                 97.5          ..    32.5     36.9      34.0     29.4         1.6       3.2        5.1       3.2
Industry                   107.0         ..    43.5      40.4     43.0      45.7        12.1       8.9       7.4        8.2
other                       60.0          ..    24.0     22.7     23.0      24.9         3.5       4.3       0.3        7.8
Conaumption                  184.4       76.4    68.4      69.7      70.0     71.0         Z.7       5.4        5.8       6.8
Investment                    76.0       23.2    32.5      28.7      30.3     29.8         9.8       6.8        0.9       7.0
Exports GNFS                  23.5         3.7/b   6.0      8.9       9.0      9.6         1.6/b     8.0/b    19.9        7.5
Imports CNFS                  19.4        3.57i   6.8       7.3       9.3     10.4         2.37i;    9.47O      7.7      11.3
National savings              80.1       23.6/c  31.9      30.3      30.0     29.0
As 2 OF GDP
Pubilc Finance                                                       1957            1979           1981            1983
Current revenues (excluding foreign borrwing)                     28.7            34.5            31.9            29.1
Current expenditures                                              16.1            22.8            23.3            21.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-3                                       +12.6           +11.7            +8.6            +7.8
Capital expenditures                                              11.9            16.9             9.9             9.4
Foreign borrowing /d                                               0.7             0.9             1.6             0.7
Other Indicators                                                   1957-79        1979-82         1982-90
CDP grasth rate (2)                                                 5.8            5.1             6.5
CDP per capita grayth rate (Z)                                      3.8            3.9             5.3
Energy consumption growth rate (Z)                                 8.5              1.9
ICOR                                                               5.4
Marginal savings rate                                              0.42
Import elasticity                                                  1.6              1.5
/a NWP basis.
7T Goods only.
7TG GDS.
7T   Gross.



ANNEK I
33~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg 5f 6
Population    i  1,008 miLlion (mid-1962)
GCN per capitai US$310 (1982)
CHINA - EXERNAL TRADZ
Amount            -
(million US$ at                Annual zarmth rates (2) (at constant 1980 price.)
currant prices)                     Actual                                 Prosectet
Indicator                              1983         1980        1981        1982        1983       1984         1985         1986
External Trade
Maercendiae export.                22,223           17         16           6          10         14            5             S
Energy                            4,456          ..          ..          ..          ..
Otbhr prlmary                     4,947          ..
Manufactures                     17,557          ..          ..          ..
Other                               253          ..          ..          ..          ..         .            ..
Morchandie import.                18,970          17          -9          10          29         30            B             8
Food                              2.735                      ..          ..         . ..
Energy                               99          ..           .          .           ..
Machinery and equipment           3,537           .          ..           .           .
Other                            12,599          ..          ..                      ..
Prices
Export price index (1980-100)                     100         103          99          89         86           90            95
Import prIce index (1980-100)           .         l00         105          91          79         76          80             85
Term. of trade index (1980-100)                   100          98         108         113        113          112           112
Composition of merchandise trade (S)                      Average annual increase (1)
(at current prices )                                  Cat constent prices)
1980     1981      1982      1983     1985      1990      1957-70  1970-79  1979-82  1982-85  1985-90
Exports                 100.0  - 100.0    100.0    100.0         100       100         1.6       8.0     12.9       9.6         4
Energy                 25.1      22.9      23.8     20.1        11         0                                      -
Other primary          28.4      24.1      22.8  -  22.3        24        24
Manufactures           46.5      47.8     50.5      56.5        60-       71
other                   0.0       5.2       2.9       1.1        5         5
Imports                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0         100       100         2.3      9.4       5.4      21.9         7
Food                             19 6     22.5      14.4        16        17                                                  .
Energy                  0.0       0.0       0.0      0.5         0         8                              . .
Machinery and
equipment            27.5      24.2      19.1     18.7        24        25                    .
Other                            56.2      58.5     66.4        60        50          .                  ..
Share of trade with           Share of trade with         Share of trade with countries vith
industrial countries (Z)       developing countries (X)    centrally planned economies (Z) /a
1978    1901    1983          1978    1981    1983              1978       1981       1903
Direction of Trade /b
Exports                        37.3    45.9    42.1          51.6    50.2    53.1               11.1       3.9        4.7
Imports                        73.3    76.8    68.1          17.5    18.7    24.2               9.2        4.5        6.4
/a  Includes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba, North Korea and Mongolia.
/b  Bhsed on IMF:  "China - Recent Economic Developments,' October 1984, p. 90b.



ANMIX I
_34 -                                           Psg  b of 6
Population    :  1,008 million (tid-1962)
GNP per capita:  US$310  (1982)
CHINA -BLANCE OF PAIMNTS, EXTERNAL CAPrTAL AND DEBT
(i1tiiosn US4 at current prIces)
Actual                                   Projected
lndieator                                            1979      1980       1981       1982      1963       1984       1985      1990
Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and .erviceu                    15,351    20j901    25,157    25,989    26,369    29,060    32,000    53,300
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                 13,658    18,492    22.027    22,476    22,223    24,450    27,000    45,700
Imports of goods and services                   18,204    24,752    24,380    20,793    22,448    28,060    31,900    62,600
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                 16,212    22,049    21,047    17,830    18,970    23,710    26,900    52,600
*      Net transfer.                                       596        S00       680        412        511       600        700       600
Current account balance                         -2,257    -3,351       1,457     5,608      4.442      1,600       800    -8,500
Foreign direct investment (net)                       -        57        265        359       478        670       600      1,500
MLT Loans (net)                                    800      1,130        416       426        899      1,000      1,200     4,000
Official                                          350       446        479       557        789
Private                                          450        684        -63      -131        110                   ..
Other capital                                    2,054      2,555        365      -102    -2,481    -1.070    -1,300        1,00
Quange in net reserves ("-" - increase)           -597       -391    -2,503    -6,291    -3.338    -2,200    -1.500         2,000
International reserves                           7,274      7,665    10.166    16,459    19,797    22,000    23,500
of which: gold                                 5,120      5,120      5.120     5,120      5.120
Reserves as months imports                         4.8        3.7        5.0       9.4       10.6        9.4       8.8
External Capital and Debt
Gross disbursements
Concessional Loans                                             .
DAC
OPEC
ID&
Other
Nonconcessional Loans
Official export credits                                       .
IBRD
Other multilateral
Private
External debt
Debt outstanding & disbursed                              5,433      5.785     6,058      6,397
Official
Private
Undisbursed debt
Debt service
Total service payments
Interest
Payments as 2 exports GNFS                                  5.8        8.6/a    10.9/a      5.5/s
Average interest rate on new loans (2)
Average maturity of new loans (years)
/a Including some early repayment of principal.



ANNEX TI
-35 -
STATUS 0F DANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPUTLIC OF CRINA
A. STARTEMNT 07 DANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31. 1985)
Loan or                                                                                     US$  Sillion
Credit                                                                               Amount (less cancellation)
Number     Year    Borrower                      Purpose                             Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
9       2021/1167  1981    People's Republic of China  University Development                100.0    100.0        50.6
1261    1982    People's Republie of Chlna  North China Plain Agriculture            -      60.0        19.6
2207    1982    People's Republic of China Three Ports                             69.0       -         49.6
1297    1982    People'. Republic of China  Agric. Education & Research              -      75.4        28.1
2226/1313  1982    People's Republic of Chlna  Industrial Credit                      40.6     30.0        56.4
2231    1983    People'. Republic of Chlna  Daqing Petroleum                      162.4       -        110.1
2252    1983    People's Republic of China  Zhongyuan-Wenliu Petroleum            100.8       -         91.2
2261/1347  1983    People's Republic of China  Rellongjiang Land Reclamation          35.3     45.0        41.1
1411    1983    People's Republic of China  Polvtechnic/TV University                -      85.0        77.5
1412    1983    Peoplt's Republic of China  Technical Cooperation                    -      10.0         8.0
1417    1934    People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                       -     100.0        74.6
2382    1984    People's Republic of China  Lubuge Hydroelectric                  145.4       -        141.6
2394    1984    People's Republic of China  Railway                               220.0       -        178.1
1462    1984    People's Republic of China  Rural Credit                             -      50.0        41.1
1472    1984    People'. Republic of China  Rural Health & Nedical Educ.             -      85.0        76.1
2426    198'    People's Republic of China  Karanay Petroleum                     100.3       -        100.1
2434/1491  1984    People's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit              105.0     70.0       170.2
2444/1500  1984    People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Education          45.3     23.5        65.5
1516    1Q85    People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research             -      25.0        24.1
1551    1985/a  People's Republic of China  Second University Development            -     145.0       145.0
2493    19S5T7  People's Republic of China  Second Power                          117.0       -        117.0
2501    1985W  People's Republic of China  Changcun (Luau) Coal Miunig            126.0       -        126.0
Total                                                          1,367.1    903.9    1,791.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                 1.367.1    903.9
Total Undisbursed                                              1.181.5    610.1
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1985)
None
/a  Signed on March 15, 1985, but not yet effective.
7T Signed on March 15, 1985, but not yet effectlve.
7Wc  Approved on March 14, 1985, but not yet signed.
Notes:  (1)  Credits of $40.0 million (Seeds Developsent Project) and $80 million (Rural Water Supply
ProJect) were approved subsequent to the above date of Statement A.
(2)  The status of the projects listed In 'art A is described In a separate report on all Bank/IDA
-      financial projects ln execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 cnd October 31.



- 36 -                             ANNEX III
CHINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)   First presentation to rBRD:               18 months
(b)   The project was prepared by:             The Government and Bank staff
(c)   First presentation to IBRD:              December 1983
(d)   First mission to consider project:       July 1983
(e)   Departure of appraisal mission:          November 1984
(f)   Completion of negotiations:              April 12, 1985
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness:           September 1985
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions:
(a) The Ministry of Railways will commence the Management Information
System Study not Later than January 31, 1986 under terms of
reference agreed with the Bank (para. 85);
(b) Training will be carried out in accordance with a program to be
agreed with the Bank (para. 88); and
(c) The project accounts and the financial statements of: ti) the
Zhengzhou and Wuhan railway subadministrations; (ii) the Changchun
Passenger Coach Factory will be audited in accordance with sound
accounting practices by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
and audit reports will be sent to the Bank for review not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 106).



IBRD 10573
Ice.                         IID*                          170-                           130-
C H I N A                                                       - 
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT                                                                                  U SSR an
ELECTRIFICATION                                      Mnroga
In oper;ItIon                                       /
Under construction
.....    Near term plan                      ,    .2.                                                \   ,
|     Single track railways    _                    /
=  Double track railwayvs
Double track railways (Near term plan)
Provincial boundaries
International boundaries
(                                              *PrnO     fbogh
M      O N> G       O L  I  A                                                                                       3'a    l J); t^e0
_  _ _- '       \                  S                              DOEM. PEOPLES
REP OF KOREA
40-                                                      Do P; n  , *,,,-
Y,onai              .~REU-I
XWusew /tint.au:n S t) fs X { c w KOOREA\ 
J.~~~~~~."
N                                          1.,h    A,, S.MIE
THAILAND                                                        - \       0ngd   MI         1  C  h .a      301-
ano  A r@    ><~~~~~~~~~~ha
-   5Xt - E       Scsono              ;       Zh~~~~~~ong . nq
_ _ _                                                                                            1 ,  20Nnnmng  U K20
IqD 2a  X J0 ANUD A 410 YO
SURMA                   iVIET  NAM 96
-tt _5 > LAO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S o., fh Ch"a,  S..o  MILES
L_   PEOPLE S            )      /f                   njjw|zs_we0- r
r       >    ~~~DEM.                                                                 - l   /-~
THAILAN        RIePo   W-       I             {                                             Dr. If_g td           F- Do_awa    n_
L 1^1 ^  L ^ N  j n C ..         >         (>   7                  o- -0 _ d!    _                          -          ab . 
JANqUARIY 1985






