Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15230
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2540-CHA)
DECEMBER 29, 1995
Transport Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 1985)
Currency   =  Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit  =  Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00   =  100 Fen
$1.00   =  Y 2.84
Y 1.00   =  $0.35
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m  = meter (= 3.281 feet)
m 2 =square meter (= 10.764 square feet)
m3    cubic meter (= 35.315 cubic feet)
km     kilometer (= 0.621 mile)
tkm     ton-kilometer (= 0.621 ton-mile)
pkm     passenger-kilometer (= 0.621 passenger-mile)
mu     0.1647 acre = 0.0667 hectare (ha)
kWh      kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcal)
ctk    Converted tkm, traffic unit (1 pkm = 1 tkm)
Mt    million tons
Mtpy     million tons per year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARS       China Academy of Railway Sciences
CPCF       Changchun Passenger Coach Factory
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
FCTIO      Foreign Capital and Technical Import Office
MIS        Management Information System
MOR        Ministry of Railways
OECF       The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PCR        Project Completion Report
RERR       Reevaluated Economic Rate of Return
RIS        Railway Investment Study
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SPC        State Planning Commission
TMIS       Transportation Management Information System



The VIiiorld Bank         FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 29, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on China
Second Railway Project (Loan 2540-CHA)
The Project Completion Report (PCR) on the China: Second Railway Project (Loan 2540,
approved in FY85) was prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, with Part II contributed
by the Borrower. The loan for US$235 million equivalent was approved on May 14, 1985 and closed
on June 30, 1994, two years behind schedule. A balance of US$15 million of the loan amount was
canceled.
The project was prepared at a time when the transport system was becoming increasingly
bottlenecked as a result of China's high and sustained economic growth and its inadequate transport
infrastructure. The project's main objective was to help the Ministry of Railways (MOR) finance the
expansion of railway capacity. To this end, the project comprised: (a) upgrading the Beijing-Guangzhou
line, a key transport artery; (b) modernizing a railway car factory; (c) building new laboratories for
materials and equipment testing; (d) conducting a management information system (MIS) study; and
(e) providing technical assistance to MOR's railway universities.
Although the project progressed slowly in the first 5 years and its completion was delayed due to
protracted procurement and to a general retrenchment on investments in China during that period, the
project's physical components, which comprised 96 percent of project costs, were satisfactorily executed.
The line upgrading and the modernization of the railway car factory were completed. The
implementation of the institutional components was less successful. Conduct of the management
information system study was hampered for lack of computer equipment; funds were reallocated to
purchase such equipment, and, in the end, the MIS study was not done. The laboratory component was
completed but with a reduced scope. Modernization of MOR universities was not implemented due to
Government's reluctance to utilize technical assistance for this purpose. Four technical studies dealing
with MOR's infrastructure and equipment were added to the project's scope during its implementation,
and helped to prepare a subsequent project. The economic rate of return for the project's physical
investments, comprising 96 percent of total project costs, is estimated at 16 percent, compared to 25
percent estimated at appraisal. On completion of the project, the financial condition of the railway was
satisfactory as anticipated at appraisal.
The Operations Evaluation Department rates the project's outcome as satisfactory, its
institutional development as negligible and its sustainability as likely.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



The PCR is good. It offers a candid assessment of the project and contains a substantial amount
of supporting tables and annexes. An important lesson noted is that Borrower's reluctance to utilize
project's funds for the recruitment of outside consultants substantially hindered the institutional
development component.
The project may be audited, together with other China railway projects currently nearing
completion.
Attachment



FOR OPFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2540-CHA)
CONTENTS
Preface ..............................................    i
Evaluation Summary   .....................................    ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ...                           .......    1
Project Identity ....................................    1
Background   ......................................    I
Project Objectives and Description .........................    2
Project Design and Organization  ..........................    3
Project Implementation ................................    3
Project Results .....................................   7
Project Sustainability  .................................   13
Bank Performance   ..................................   13
Borrower Performance ................................   14
Project Relationship   .................................   15
Consulting Services ..................................   15
Project Documentation and Data ..........................   15
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . 16
PART III: PROJECT STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ................   17
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans and/or IDA Credits ..... ..                ........  20
Table 2:  Project Timetable  ...........           ..        ...............   21
Table 3A: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  ...              ......  21
Table 3B: Disbursements by Category  ........            ..       ............   22
Table 4:  Project Implementation  ..........           ..       .............   22
Table 5A: Project Costs ...... .........                   ................   23
Table SB: Project Financing  ...........           ..        ...............   23
Table 6: Project Results    ..24
Table 7: Status of Covenants              ..25
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources    ..26
A. Staff Inputs .26
B. Missions .26
Annex 1 Income Statements ...... ..........                      .................   27
Annex 2 Economic Reevaluation of Zhengzhou-Wuhan Track Upgrading  . ..  32
and Electrification
Annex 3 Economic Evaluation of the Changchun Passenger Coach Factory  ... .   42
Modernization
Annex 4 Project Review from Borrower's Perspective ...... ..                  .........  48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2540-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Railway Project
in China, for which Loan 2540-CHA in the amount of $235 million was approved on
May 14, 1985. The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, two years later than originally
planned. Disbursements amounted to $219.668 million. A total of $15.0 million was
canceled from the loan effective April 22, 1991. Final disbursement was made on
November 3, 1994, and the balance of $332,178 was canceled on November 3, 1994.
The PCR was prepared by U. Marggraf (Task Manager), H. Deboeck
(Financial Analyst), M. Rasheed (Financial Analyst), and H. K. Yen (Research Analyst)
of the Transport Operations Division, China and Mongolia Department of the East Asia
and Pacific Region and reviewed by Messrs. Richard Scurfield (EA2TP Division Chief)
and Yo Kimura (EA2 Project Advisor). The Borrower provided comments that are
included as Part II of the PCR.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's completion mission.
It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the
PCR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and commenting on the
draft PCR.



..                ....:



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2540-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
i.          The Project's principal objective was to make a direct contribution to the
Government's goal of increasing railway capacity to support economic growth by assisting
the Ministry of Railways (MOR) in financing urgently needed investments to expand its
transport and production capacity. To that end, the project was to increase railway line
capacity in central China on the important route between Zhengzhou and Wuhan and to
increase the production of passenger coaches. In addition, the project was to strengthen
applied research, continue the modernization of MOR's management techniques, and advise
on improvements in university curricula (para. 3.1).
Implementation Experience and Results
ii.         The project became effective on November 22, 1985, about six months after
Board approval on May 14, 1985. The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, two years later
than originally planned.
iii.        The Zhengzhou-Wuhan Upgrading and Electrification component (para.
5.3) was well prepared at appraisal. Shortly after Board approval, however, MOR had to
reduce investments for capital construction by at least 10 percent in order to meet a cost-
cutting requirement by the Government. This action resulted in a complete revision of
both the design and the implementation schedule, and a consequent delay of over two
years. The component was essentially completed by December 1992. A few items, which
did not affect the line capacity but did create safer train operations, remained unfinished
until early 1994. One of the project's principal objectives, the expansion of MOR's
railway capacity on an important route in China, was successfully met (para. 6.2).
iv.         The Changchun Passenger Coach Factory (CPCF) component (paras. 5.4
and 5.5) was approved as a first phase of factory modernization, which was intended to
provide careful preparation of the second phase, while the number and quality of coaches
produced at the factory were expected to increase moderately. The second phase to
implement consultants' recommendations and to equip the factory with machinery needed
for the more efficient production of a newly designed coach had been planned for a later
project. Shortly after the successful completion of the foreign consultants' work in 1990,



- ill -
local management of the factory combined the two phases in order to maintain momentum.
Originally, completion of the component was scheduled for the end of 1988. With the
coalescing of the two phases, installations were finished by the end of 1993. The objective
of the project component was to increase coach production at the factory based on
improvement in production technology and better factory equipment and machinery. This
objective was fully achieved although differently than planned at appraisal (para. 6.3).
v.          The China Academy of Railway Sciences (CARS) component (paras. 5.6
and 5.7) consisted of equipment and instruments for two new laboratories to test rolling
stock and track components, and consultant services to assist in the finalization of their
design, and setting up the facilities. During implementation, however, the Chinese side
found that the cost of the consultancy was much higher than anticipated. After years of
discussions at all levels inside MOR, and with the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the
State Planning Commission (SPC), CARS decided not to build the mechanical laboratory
because it was too expensive. Construction of the track-component testing laboratory,
which began in 1991, was completed in early 1994. The project objective to strengthen
applied research was, therefore, only partially met (para. 6.4).
vi.         The project's main technical assistance component (paras. 5.8 to 5.10) was
to carry out a Management Information System (MIS) study to improve MOR's quality
of management and railway operations with the help of a computerized information system.
Quite ambitiously, the study was also to provide sufficient experience of the new MIS for
MOR to decide how to extend it to other units. Due to a shortage of computers to collect
data, however, the allocated funds were used to purchase computer and telecommunications
cabling equipment for a different pilot project to computerize the existing expense and
revenue accounting systems of the whole Harbin Administration. Implementation of this
computerization was completed in June 1992 without achieving the MIS study's objectives
(para. 6.5).
vii.        Finally, the project component for the provision of technical assistance to
MOR's universities (para. 5.11) to strengthen curricula and meet MOR's changing
technology and management needs was not achieved because the component was never
implemented (para. 6.6).
viii.       Procurement. The Bank's procedures for procurement under international
competitive bidding (ICB) were still very new to MOR when the project started. The
workload for MOR was quite remarkable. Procurement administration was generally
unsatisfactory until early 1992, when a reorganization of the Foreign Capital and Technical
Import Office (FCTIO) improved the progress of procurement activities. In retrospect,
handling of procurement matters was the weakest part of project execution. The main
impeding factors were: (a) a very cumbersome approval process, with repetitive controls
from other government organs; and (b) an inherent lack of knowledge and experience of
contracting in a market economy (paras. 5.12 to 5.15).
ix.         Disbursement. The total project cost was $546.1 million compared to the
appraisal estimate of $569.1 million, 4 percent lower than originally calculated. This



- iv -
comes predominantly from the conversion of costs expressed in Yuan into US dollar at
devalued Yuan to US dollar exchange rates, which exceeded by far the price contingency
in US dollars. The overall result shows the Borrower's attempt to focus on physical
elements of the project with the emphasis on substituting foreign funds by local ones
wherever possible (paras. 5.16 and 5.17).
x.           Sustainability. The sustainability of this project is supported by the results
of sensitivity analyses conducted for both components. In the case of the Zhengzhou-
Wuhan Upgrading and Electrification component, increasing the project costs and mine
development costs by 20 percent, respectively, had only a minimal impact on the
ERR-lowering it from 16 to 15 percent. Similarly, for the passenger coach component,
reducing the benefits by 50 percent resulted in an ERR of 18 percent compared to a base
case value of 25 percent.
xi.          Bank Performance. Although the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified
the risk from inadequate project implementation and operation as negligible, the project did
not progress well in the first five years. During those years, there were only small (one
staff member) Bank supervision missions, after an initial, fully-staffed mission in October
1985. Beginning in 1990, systematic and in-depth supervision addressed outstanding
issues, with an emphasis on agreeing with MOR and SPC that specific measures be taken
by the railways to improve implementation performance. The missions appear to have
significantly contributed to improved project progress. Since then, supervision reports
provide a clear picture and assessment of project progress and the reasons for delays in the
past (para. 8.1).
xii.         Borrower Performance. Overall, MOR's administrative performance was
quite good, except for procurement and regular reporting (para. 9.1). MOR had, however,
some difficulty in coping with the requirements of being a project executing agency until
it belatedly installed the FCTIO to rectify the shortcomings.  Reporting was weak,
untimely and barely informative. Over the years, the Bank emphasized in supervision
missions that reporting, especially quarterly reporting, had to be improved with regard to
content and timing. Remedial steps take by FCTIO improved the situation somewhat but
not yet to a satisfactory level (para. 9.2).
Findings and Lessons Learned
xiii.        The project achieved only some of its objectives (para. 6.1). It was to make
a direct contribution to the Government's objectives of increasing railway capacity, to
strengthen applied research, continue the modernization of MOR's management techniques,
and advise on improvements in university curricula. When the loan was closed, the project
results were mixed:  in essence, the objectives related to physical investments were
achieved, but not those connected to technical assistance.
xiv.         The most important lessons (paras. 8.1 to 9.2) learned relate to the need for:
(a) stronger ownership of future projects by the Borrower, (b) the Bank focusing on
supervision in the early years of the project, (c) the establishment with MOR of a



procedure to properly record the Bank's agreement to changes of the project scope after
appraisal, (d) an improvement of the Bank's administrative efficiency in procurement, and
(e) MOR to realize that adequate emphasis on implementation of ongoing projects and
feedback to the Bank are essential for the successful preparation of new projects.
Experience with subsequent projects demonstrates that these lessons are still valid. Most
important for achieving project objectives is the ownership aspect. The Bank, therefore,
should establish at the beginning of project preparation a clear understanding with the
Borrower of what should and can realistically be achieved in a given timeframe. A joint
planning meeting with high-level participants not only from MOR but also from SPC and
other Government bodies, which are involved in policy refonn, could serve as a forum to
discuss the Bank's and the Borrower's objectives and possible scope of a new project and
reach an early agreement on a common approach to its preparation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2450-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name          Second Railway Project
Loan No.             2450-CHA
RVP Unit              East Asia and Pacific Region
Country              China
Sector                Transport
Subsector            Railways
2.    Background
2.1         China's economy is transport-intensive, like most other centrally planned
economies. The transport system is heavily concentrated along the eastern seaboard and
historically has been served mainly by railways, inland water transport and coastal
shipping. It is also characterized by high-intensity freight traffic. Economic growth,
especially after the Government adopted the open-door policy in 1978, continuously
outpaced capacity expansion. Although China's railway network more than doubled in
size, and the length of the highway system increased ninefold between 1952 and 1983, the
transport network was and is one of the sparsest in the world compared with the area and
population it serves.
2.2          The surge in traffic occurred despite capacity constraints and related
bottlenecks. By 1983, highway traffic had grown at the highest annual rate (15 percent)
compared with 8 percent for railway traffic and over 9 percent for coastal and inland
waterway traffic, reducing the railway's share of total traffic from 82 percent in 1952 to
66 percent.
2.3         Over the period 1953-80, about 15 percent of all new investments under
central government control went to transport. Compared to other countries, the annual
investments in China's transport sector had been rather low. In the early 1980s, the
Government prepared its Seventh Five-Year Development Plan (1986-90), which
recognized the need for much larger investments in all modes of transport if bottlenecks
to economic development were to be avoided. Individual modes were to be expanded and



-2-
links established between them, together with the incorporation of new technology and the
strengthening of institutions.
2.4         By 1983, China's railway capacity was insufficient to meet traffic demands.
Growth in freight traffic averaged 9 percent a year between 1952 and 1983, but slowed to
around 4.5 percent a year since 1978, as traffic saturated existing lines and rolling stock
capacity. The Government was aware of these impediments to growth and placed special
emphasis on developing the transport sector, as well as on the energy sector, which was
dependent on coal transport by rail.
2.5         In 1982, the Bank became involved in the transport sector for the first time
with the Three Ports Project (Loan 2207-CHA), followed, in 1984, by the First Railway
Project (Loan 2394-CHA). In 1985, further port and highway subsector projects were
under preparation. This project, the second in the railway subsector, aimed to assist the
Government in increasing railway transport capacity that was essential for sustained
economic development.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1         Project Objectives. As stated in the SAR, the project was to make a direct
contribution to the Government's objective of increasing railway capacity to support
economic growth by assisting MOR in financing urgently needed investments to expand
its transport and production capacity. To that end, the project was to increase railway line
capacity in central China on the important route between Zhengzhou and Wuhan and to
increase the production of passenger coaches. In addition, the project was to strengthen
applied research, continue the modernization of MOR's management techniques, and advise
on improvements in university curricula.
3.2         Project Components. The project comprised the following components:
(a)   Additional line capacity on the 547 km Zhengzhou-Wuhan section of the
Beijing-Guangzhou line, one of the most important transport arteries in
China;
(b)   Improvements in the production technology and increases in coach
production at the Changchun Passenger Coach Factory (CPCF);
(c)   Assistance in development of the China Academy of Railway Sciences
(CARS) with new laboratories for materials and equipment testing;
(d)   A Management Information Study in a selected area of the Ministry of
Railways (MOR); and
(e)   Technical assistance to MOR's universities to strengthen curricula and meet
MOR's changing technology and management needs.



-3-
3.3         In March 1991, the project scope was extended to include four studies on:
(a) permanent way maintenance and rehabilitation; (b) locomotive and rolling stock
maintenance  and  rehabilitation;  (c) system   electrification;  and  (d) system
telecommunications. The objectives of the studies were to deal better with systemwide
issues that affect the quantity and quality of railway services and the utilization of assets,
and to identify future investment needs. The studies were included in this project to assist
in the preparation of the Fifth Railway Project.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1         The concept and the scope of the project was proposed by MOR. The
timing of the project was appropriate, as pressure continued to alleviate the growing
capacity constraints of the railways. In the context of the Government's special emphasis
on developing the transport sector, the project was designed along the lines established in
the first Railway Project but was innovative in providing technical assistance and training
on a much broader basis than the first project.
4.2         The first Bank mission was sent in March 1984, and the project was
appraised in October 1984. It became effective on November 22, 1985, about six months
after Board approval on May 14, 1985 (Table 2).
5.    Project Implementation
5.1         Although the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified the risk from
inadequate project implementation and operation as negligible, the project did not progress
well in the first five years. MOR had some difficulty in coping with the requirements of
being a project executing agency until it belatedly installed the Foreign Capital and
Technical Import Office (FCTIO) to rectify the shortcomings. Poor communication with
the Bank was symptomatic of a weak organization. There was no regular reporting, and
written information on implementation provided to the Bank was barely informative.
5.2         After an initial mission in October 1985, there were only small Bank
supervision missions until mid-1990 (Table 8B). After that, supervision started to
systematically tackle outstanding issues with an emphasis on agreeing with MOR and SPC
that specific measures be taken by the railways to improve implementation performance.
In the end, the loan closing date had to be extended by two years to June 30, 1994.
Zhengzhou-Wuhan Upgrading and Electrification
5.3         This component was well prepared at appraisal time. Shortly after Board
approval, however, MOR had to reduce investments for capital construction by at least
10 percent in order to meet a cost-cutting requirement by the Government. This action
resulted in a complete revision of both the design and the implementation schedule, and
a consequent delay of over two years. Some savings were found, such as phasing
investments more gradually (e.g., lengthening the tracks of only every other station, in a
first phase. The project was essentially completed by December 1992. A few items,



-4-
which did not affect the line capacity but did create safer train operations, remained
unfinished until early 1994, due to late provision of MOR funds and difficulties with
suppliers.
The Changchun Passenger Coach Factory
5.4         The project component was conceived as the first phase of a two-phase
program. Its primary objective was to provide careful preparation for the second phase,
while some improvements in both number and quality of coaches produced at the factory
were expected to occur. The second phase was projected for the future, possibly with
additional Bank financing, to implement consultants' recommendations and to equip the
factory with machinery needed for the more efficient production of a newly designed
coach. Bank support under the project was for technical assistance to the factory covering
a feasibility study on the expansion of production, the development of a new coach design,
training of factory staff in modem technical and managerial practices, as well as to
increase the current production and to improve coach quality. In addition, the project
provided funds for the purchase of some factory equipment and machinery.
5.5         Shortly after the successful completion of the foreign consultants' work in
1990, local management of the factory combined the two phases in order to maintain
momentum. Instead of waiting for the appraisal of another railway project, MOR decided
to reallocate funds from the China Academy of Railway Sciences component. The foreign
funding for equipment was raised by about $5 million after consulting the Bank's team
only informnally, and the production program was changed accordingly. According to the
original SAR schedule, completion of the component was scheduled for the end of 1988.
With the coalescing of the two phases, this schedule was revised to June 1992 and
completed by the end of 1993.
The China Academy of Railway Sciences (CARS)
5.6         The plans for this component submitted to the Bank at preappraisal were not
very firm. After assistance was given by a foreign specialist to help the Bank with its
appraisal, the component was included in the project. It consisted of equipment and
instruments for two new laboratories to test rolling stock and track components; consultant
services to assist in the finalization of their design, carrying out of the purchase
procedures, and setting up the facilities; and training of Academy staff in the fields related
to the new laboratories.
5.7         The plan was that CARS would select a partner to carry out the design of
the new facilities, which were to involve modem technology with which CARS was not
familiar enough. A short list of firms was agreed. When the proposals were received,
however, the Chinese side found that the cost of the consultancy was much higher than
anticipated. Discussions at all levels inside MOR, and with MOF and SPC, lasted for
years. After five years of total inactivity, the component was believed to be dead.
Finally, CARS came to the conclusion that building the mechanical laboratory would be
too expensive. When an agreement was reached to drop the mechanical laboratory from



- 5 -
the project, the foreign exchange budget was reduced from $15.0 to $9.0 million. The
component began moving ahead. Construction of the track component testing laboratory,
which began in 1991, was completed in early 1994.
Management Information System (MIS) Study
5.8         The main purpose of this study was to improve MOR's quality of
management and railway operations with the help of a computerized information system.
The study's recommendations of streamlining and accelerating flows of information were
to be implemented in a pilot area of MOR and one of its factories. Quite ambitiously, the
study was also to provide sufficient experience of the new MIS for MOR to decide how
to extend it to other units.
5.9         Between 1985 and 1992, the project did not focus on conducting a MIS
study as originally envisaged. MOR was short of computers to collect needed data for the
pilot testing of the MIS in the designated Harbin Administration, starting with the
Mudanjiang Subadministration. The allocated funds, therefore, were used to purchase
computer and telecommunications cabling equipment for a different pilot project designed
to computerize the existing expense and revenue accounting systems in the whole Harbin
Administration. Implementation of this computerization was completed in June 1992
without achieving the MIS study's objectives.
5.10        In June 1992, MOR agreed to bring the narrower financial MIS study effort
in line with the full scope as appraised. The objective of a new action plan was to develop
an integrated financial MIS system for China Railways as a whole, using a "top-down"
approach. In addition, MOR decided to adopt a centralized database approach for a
Transportation Management Information System (TMIS), which would significantly impact
the present MIS data flow, and not to proceed with the implementation of the MIS beyond
the Harbin Administration in its original concept. A new short-term action plan was
agreed, which focused on developing this type of information to complete these study tasks
by early February 1993. The emphasis of the MIS work shifted to the TMIS, a Yard
Information System and an Intermodal Information System under the Sixth and Seventh
Railway Projects.
Technical Assistance to MOR Universities
5.11        The intention of the technical assistance was to assemble a group of high-
level (expensive) experts in higher education, to study graduates' skill mix as compared
with likely future needs, determine areas within MOR where new technology was most
relevant, and recommend adaptations in curricula. There was not much enthusiasm within
MOR, and absolutely no support outside MOR, since the Ministry of Education (now a
State Commission) was more interested in the institutes of higher education under its direct
control, and did not favor Bank assistance to MOR's universities.  During project
implementation, it became quite clear that there was an extreme reluctance in China about
hiring outside technical assistance, because the going rate of 300 to 500 times the cost of
an equivalent Chinese staff looked prohibitive. The Government did not agree to allocate



-6-
funds to this component, although it was listed as part of the project in both the SAR and
the Loan Agreement. The October 1991 supervision mission reported: "For all practical
purposes, this component is dead"; it was never implemented.
Procurement
5.12        The project, approved by the Board only 14 months after the First Railway
Project, experienced the same difficulties as the earlier one. The workload for MOR was
quite remarkable:  292 items were procured through 255 contracts.  Successive
authorizations and checks at various levels inside and outside MOR were cumbersome and
time-consuming. Internal procedures for procurement under ICB were still very new and
unsuitable to MOR when the project started. The various activities were carried out by
several departments and were generally uncoordinated until 1987 when MOR assigned
externally-financed projects to a central department.
5.13        Procurement administration was generally unsatisfactory until early 1992,
when a reorganization of the Foreign Capital and Technical Import Office (FCTIO) of
MOR improved the progress of procurement activities. Nevertheless, the closing date of
June 30, 1992 could not be met; and the date had to be extended to June 30, 1994, due to
the two-year delay of procurement for the Zhengzhou-Wuhan line, which began after the
new designs and budget were finalized.
5.14        Procurement of a Central Traffic Control System started in 1987 illustrates
best the way procurement sometimes was dealt with. Bid evaluation took almost two years
because of (a) the new technology involved and (b) the fact that an apparently ill-adapted
local firm was the lowest bidder. The two years were needed to clarify the many technical
specifications involved in the technology, apparently not fully understood by the local
bidder. After this was achieved, more than a year was spent on clarifying the terms and
conditions of the contract. At the end of 1991, contract negotiations resulted in a new
price, half a million dollars (about 16 percent) higher. At that time, misprocurement with
cancellation of the loan portion was proposed by the supervision team.
5.15        In retrospect, handling of procurement matters was the weakest part of
project execution. The main impeding factors were: (a) a very cumbersome approval
process with repetitive controls from other Government organs; and (b) an inherent lack
of knowledge and experience of contracting in a market economy.
Project Costs
5.16        The total project cost was $546.1 million compared to the appraisal estimate
of $569.1 million, 4 percent lower than originally calculated (Table 5). This comes
predominantly from the conversion of costs expressed in Yuan into US dollar at devalued
Yuan to US dollar exchange rates, which exceeded by far the price contingency in US
dollars. The overall result shows the Borrower's attempt to focus on physical elements of
the project with the emphasis on substituting foreign funds by local ones wherever
possible.



5.17        The Zhengzhou-Wuhan line component was completed at $499 million, well
within the original budget ($535.8 million), mainly due to the cost cutting at the beginning
of project implementation, although inflation over two additional years compensated for
some of the savings. Final costs of the Changchun Passenger Coach Factory component
($22.5 million) were about twice the appraisal estimate of $11.3 million, mainly because
they also contain the second phase, which was planned at appraisal but intended to be
carried out under another Bank-financed project. The costs for the second phase had not
been defined because its content was to be based on the consultants' recommendations.
As a result, local costs in Yuan for civil works increased twelvefold and for equipment
sevenfold. The foreign exchange part of equipment was threefold in US dollar terms,
while MOR had reduced the technical assistance and training element by about 25 percent.
The CARS component was estimated at $21.5 million. Despite the substantial reduction
of scope ($6 million), final costs were $18 million, actually exceeding the reduced cost
base by about 16 percent. The expenditures originally allocated for the MIS study
exceeded substantially the costs estimate ($0.5 million) due to MOR's fundamental change
of approach and substance; $3.3 million were spent on this redefined component. Four
technical studies were added to the project to assist in the preparation of the Fifth Railway
Project, which cost $3.3 million.
Disbursements
5.18        As a consequence of the delays in procurement   administration,
disbursements were much slower than appraised. Table 3 summarizes the disbursement
development, and compares the appraisal estimates with actuals. Effective April 22, 1991,
$15 million were canceled because of ICB procurement delay for the Zhengzhou-Wuhan
line section.  Needed goods were purchased with local funds in order to suit the
implementation schedule. When the loan was closed on June 30, 1994, about $511,000
remained unused, of which $332,177.71 were canceled on November 3, 1994.
Loan Allocation
5.19        The loan was allocated as established in the SAR. An amendment to the
Loan Agreement was granted on March 21, 1991, creating a new category to finance
additional four studies included in the preparation of the Fifth Railway Project and
allocating $3.5 million to it from the unallocated fund category.
6.    Project Results
6.1         As stated in the SAR, the project was to make a direct contribution to the
Government's objective of increasing railway capacity to support economic growth by
assisting MOR in financing urgently needed investments to expand its transport and
production capacity. To that end, the project was to increase railway line capacity in
central China on the important route between Zhengzhou and Wuhan, and the production
of passenger coaches. In addition, the project was to strengthen applied research, continue
the modernization of MOR's management techniques, and advise on improvements in
university curricula. When the loan was closed, the project results were mixed: in



-8-
essence, the objectives related to physical investments were achieved, but not those
connected to reform of management through technical assistance.
6.2         One of the project's principal objective, the expansion of MOR's railway
capacity to support economic growth on an important route in central China, was
successfully met by increasing traffic capacity through upgrading the 547 km Zhengzhou-
Wuhan section of the Beijing-Guangzhou line.
6.3         Another main objective of the project was to increase coach production at
the Changchun Passenger Coach Factory based on improvement in production technology
and better factory equipment and machinery. This objective was fully achieved, although
differently than planned at appraisal.  The Bank-financed technical assistance of this
component produced very good results, on both the design and the training aspects. One
of the results was the design of a new type of coach using modern technology and better
materials. The time between major overhauls is now 10 years for the new coach compared
with to 4 years for the traditional model. Actual capacity of 1,040 coaches per year is
clearly beyond the appraisal target of 800 coaches per year for the first phase.
6.4         The project objective to strengthen applied research was to be achieved
through assistance to CARS, although two new laboratories for materials and equipment
testing had to be built and the kind of tests to be carried out in them were not very specific
at appraisal. The mechanical laboratory was not built because it turned out to be too
expensive, and consultants' input was rather limited. As a result, the objective was only
partially met. A demonstration of the track component testing laboratory to participants
of the Heavy Haul Congress in 1993, however, was reportedly quite impressive.
6.5         The SAR stated as an other objective that the project was to continue the
modernization of MOR's management techniques although no reference was made to
ongoing efforts. The original concept for the proposed MIS Study as a pilot study was that
MOR would: (a) form a study team, (b) develop a financial MIS with the assistance of
outside consultants, and (c) then implement this system in the Harbin Administration,
starting with the Mudanjiang Subadministration. Due to a shortage of computers to collect
data, MOR changed the study's whole focus and allocated funds to the purchase of
computer and telecommunications cabling equipment to computerize parts of the existing
accounting systems in the whole Harbin Administration. Although management of this
administration reported that they were very pleased with the system, there were essentially
few direct, tangible benefits that could be claimed in terms of improved operations or
reduced clerical staff. However, the MIS study's objectives-streamlining and accelerating
flows of information in a pilot area, and to provide sufficient experience for MOR to
decide how to extend the system to other units-were not achieved.
6.6         The project objective of providing technical assistance to MOR's universities
to strengthen curricula and meet MOR's changing technology and management needs was
not achieved because the component was never implemented.



- 9 -
6.7         During project implementation, no environmental or resettlement problems
arose.
Financial Performance
6.8         This section deals with MOR's financial results of the total operation, as
well as the Zhengzhou-Wuhan Upgrading and Electrification and the Changchun Passenger
Coach Factory components as part of project. The evaluation of MOR's performance
should be seen in the context of financial matters, described in Annex 1.
6.9         During 1984-92, MOR was profitable. In 1993, MOR reported a net loss
of Y 0.7 million (after paying Y 3.2 billion interest from surcharge revenues); had the
surcharge revenues been included with base tariff revenues, MOR would have shown a
profit of Y 20.4 billion. Estimated net losses for 1994 and 1995 are Y 2.9 billion and
Y 4.4 billion, respectively; including surcharge revenues would result in a profit of Y 26.0
billion and Y 24.3 billion in 1994 and 1995, respectively. These results are net of MOR's
transfers to the Government.
6.10        The income statements for the total operation of MOR is given in Annex 1,
Table 1, showing the appraisal forecast for 1984 and 1985, the actual results from 1984
to 1993, and the estimated results for 1994 and 1995. The improvement in the 1986 to
1989 net income (compared to previous years) mainly reflects the introduction of the
economic contract in 1986 by which MOR was exempted from paying income tax to the
Government. The improvement in 1990 net income mainly reflects the increase in across-
the-board freight tariffs that took place in that year. Since 1991, revenues from base
tariffs are supplemented by revenues from a freight surcharge. Revenues from base tariffs
are declining in the 1990s because these tariffs did not keep pace with inflation and the
complete phasing out of input subsidies. This is also reflected in the working and
operating ratios that are increasing.
6.11        The actual working and operating ratios for 1984 and 1985 (see table below)
were marginally better than the appraisal forecast for those years. However, one can
question the relevance of these relatively low ratios as they were distorted by input
subsidies. There were no forecasts for the ratios in the SAR beyond 1985.



- 10-
WORKING AND OPERATNG RATIOS
(Percentages)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Working Ratio
Appraisal Forecast /a      45      47
Actual                     40     40      51     53     60      67     57
Operating Ratio
Appraisal Forecast /a      56      58
Actual                     52      52     63     66     72      79     68
/a The ratios were recalculated to be consistent with the calculations in this PCR.
WORKING AND OPERATING RATIOS (CONTINuED)
(Percentages)
Appraisal             Estimate
1991    1992    1993      1994    1995
Working Ratio
Excluding Surcharge Revenues         62      64      75        86      87
Including Surcharge Revenues         59      54      52        55      58
Operating Ratio
Excluding Surcharge Revenues         73      75      85        97      99
Including Surcharge Revenues         70      63      59        62      65
6.12        The statement of actual revenues and costs for 1993 for the Zhengzhou-
Wuhan line is given in Annex 1, Table 2. A comparison is made between appraisal
estimates for 1995 (SAR Table 5.9) and actual results in 1993 (Annex 1, Table 2) and the
results are as follows:



- 11 -
Yuan Million
1995         1993
SAR Estimate    Actual
Traffic: (converted ton-km, billion)                       56.3        65.3
Costs: (Yuan, million)
Operations                                              247.9        483.9
Stations and Terminals                                   29.7        109.8
Maintenance of locomotives and rolling stocks            54.1        186.5
Subtotal                                              331.7        780.2
Infrastructure maintenance                              203.2        558.3
Direct Cost                                           534.9      1,338.5
Overheads                                                42.8        144.7
Total Costs                                           577.7    1j483.2
Sales Revenues                                            894.7     3,241.1
Net Operating Revenues                                317.0      1.757.9
Operating Ratios (%)                                       65          46
6.13        The Zhengzhou-Wuhan line's electrification and upgrading has given a
better-than-expected impact on its traffic carrying capacity. The converted tkm (pkm plus
freight tkm) of 65.3 billion for 1993 have already surpassed, by 16 percent, the appraisal
estimate of 56.3 billion for 1995. The financial performance is also far better than
targeted. The operating ratio for 1993 has already improved to 46 percent as compared
to the appraisal target of 65 percent in 1995. The revenues of Y 3,241 million for 1993
are Y 2,346 million higher than the appraisal estimate of Y 894.7 million in 1995, while
the costs are only Y 905 million higher. Even though the financial performance is good,
MOR and the Administrations of Zhengzhou and Wuhan should focus on improving the
tariff structure in order to ensure that operating costs are appropriately reflected in rates.
6.14        The income statement for the Changchun Passenger Coach Factory is given
in Annex 1, Table 3. Although this table shows that the converted number of passenger
coaches manufactured has increased by 10 percent from 1,159 in 1988 to 1,272 in 1992,
these quantities are not reliable because the conversion factor used in quantifying the
production of coaches in terms of standard units is not accurate. The factor appears to be
too high, which may understate number of coaches actually manufactured. The financial
performance of the factory has not been the same as expected during appraisal. The



- 12 -
headquarters in Beijing control the prices, and the factory management has no freedom in
setting the sales prices to reflect cost. Although the working and operating ratios have
been positive, they have been on the high side. While the operating costs have been
increasing rapidly, the sales price adjustments have not been adequate. The average
revenues and manufacturing costs per coach were:
1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Average Revenue/Coach (Y'000)                   230   266   373   397   405
Average Manufacturing Cost/Coach (Y'000)        209   287   330   353   382
Profit/(Loss) per Coach (Y'000)                  21   (21)   43    44    23
The above figures indicate that the profit margin per coach was not high enough to
generate sufficient profit for paying interest and other expenses. MOR has been notified
that the pricing policy for this factory should be carefully reviewed and adjustments should
be made to improve the financial condition.
Economic Reevaluation
6.15        The economic analysis presented in this report is based on a reevaluation of
data on traffic, operational performance, economic cost and project benefits of each of the
project components since the SAR estimates were made. The methodology used is similar
to that used in the SAR and is summarized below. Briefly:
(a)   all the investments costs (capital, coal mine development, 110 kV power
line and rolling stock) have been revised to 1994 prices and included in the
costs stream;
(b)   the benefit streams, also in 1994 prices, consist primarily of the value added
to the economy from the incremental freight and passenger traffic made
possible by these project components and, in the case of the Changchun
Passenger Coach Factory component, the savings in major passenger coach
overhaul outlays; and
(c)   a project life of 20 years has been assumed for all railway construction
facilities.
6.16        As detailed in Annex 2, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the
Zhengzhou-Wuhan Upgrading and Electrification component is 16 percent.  The
comparable figure estimated in the SAR was 24 percent. The ERR for the Changchun
Passenger Coach Factory component is 25 percent. For the reasons set forth in Annex 3,
this result is not comparable to the ERR reported in the SAR. The overall ERR for both
components taken together is equal to 16 percent.



- 13 -
6.17        Other Project Components. Some of loan amount (about 2.6 percent) was
allocated to the other two components, namely for CARS and the MIS Study for
improvement of its facilities, railway managerial and operational efficiency. The results
of these improvements are not quantifiable in monetary terms and, consequently, cost-
benefit analysis of these investments cannot be undertaken in the usual manner. However,
the benefits are expected to be large.
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1         The sustainability of this project is supported by the results of sensitivity
analyses conducted for both components. In the case of the Zhengzhou-Wuhan Upgrading
and Electrification corilponent, increasing the project costs and mine development costs by
20 percent, respectively, had only a minimal impact on the ERR-lowering it from 16 to
15 percent. Similarly, for the Changchun Passenger Coach Factory component, reducing
the benefits by 50 percent resulted in an ERR of 18 percent compared to a base case value
of 25 percent.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1         Although the project did not progress well in the first five years, the Bank
provided very inadequate budget resources for supervision during those years. After an
initial mission in October 1985, there were only small Bank supervision missions until mid-
1990, always carried out as limited supervision by a single person or in connection with
other projects where the emphasis was on project preparation or appraisal. There was little
of "an implementation culture .... -to enable us to get results on the ground" (quoted
from: Office of the President, FYI to all staff of May 11, 1994). Beginning in 1990,
systematic and in-depth supervision addressed outstanding issues with an emphasis on
agreeing with MOR and SPC that specific measures be taken by the railways to improve
implementation performance. The missions appear to have significantly contributed to the
better progress of the project. Since then, supervision reports provide a clear picture and
assessment of project progress and the reasons for delays in the past.
Lesson: The Bank should focus on supervision in the early
years of the project. This would mean more and carefully
selected field visits to the implementation agencies of MOR
(and not just accepting desk reports at MOR), and a
commitment to follow up at regular intervals.
8.2         The project achieved only some of its objectives. This underlines the need
for stronger ownership by the Borrower of future projects.
Lesson: At the very beginning of project preparation, the
Bank should establish a clear understanding with the
Borrower of what should and can realistically be achieved in
a given timeframe. A joint planning meeting with high-level
participants not only from MOR but also from SPC and other



- 14 -
government bodies, which are involved in policy reform,
could serve as a forum to discuss the Borrower's and the
Bank's objectives and possible scope of a new project and
reach an early agreement on a common approach to its
preparation.
8.3         The content of the Bank's files as well as the supervision reports were
exclusively concerned with recording events-with little explanation why changes were
made and without analysis of their benefits. A kind of a "credit line approach," which is
still prevailing on the Borrower's side in several subsequent projects, appears to have been
the accepted attitude of the Bank. Outstanding examples are the MIS component and the
bringing forward of second phase of the CPCF component.
Lesson: The Bank should establish with MOR a procedure
to properly record the Bank's agreement to changes of the
project scope that will affect the project as appraised.
8.4         MOR had no access to foreign exchange except through Bank and OECF
funds.  As a direct consequence, the Bank had to deal with a very large scope of
procurement accepting also small items not produced in China. The loan amount of $220
million was disbursed through 255 contracts (292 items) ranging from $1,850 to $22.6
million, at high administrative costs for the Bank. Indicative is that about 85 percent by
volume of the Bank's files relate to procurement.
Lesson: In future projects, the Bank should try to increase
the administrative efficiency in procurement by agreeing with
MOR on Bank-financing of fewer but larger contracts for
goods to be imported.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1         The Borrower was the People's Republic of China, the Ministry of Railways
its project executing agency. Overall, MOR's administrative performance was quite good,
except for procurement and regular reporting. The fact that the second railway project
followed quickly after the first explains why there was little institutional experience during
the first years. An MOF telex dated June 11, 1992 summarized the situation: "During
the initial period of its implementation, Railways II faced a lot of difficulties, including
inexperience by MOR staff in the World Bank's procurement procedures, lengthy internal
review process, change of design and technical specifications, etc., and as the
consequences, the project was much delayed. The Chinese Government, and in particular,
its MOR, has recognized the important implications the delay had for this project ... and
has been taking serious efforts to address the problems. As a result, the overall situation
has been considerably improved, and we are confident that in future implementations, the
delay of this kind would be avoided." SPC appeared to have been the major stumbling
block in MOR's decision-making. Sometimes, MOR's proposals were effectively being
put on ice for weeks and months until an "agreement" had been reached. SPC's role



- 15 -
affected mainly procurement, but also implementation of components when cost revisions
had to be made.
9.2         While the Bank did not focus enough on supervision in the early years of
the project, MOR had some difficulty in coping with the requirements of being a project
executing agency until it belatedly installed FCTIO to rectify the shortcomings. Reporting
was weak, untimely and barely informative. Over the years, the Bank emphasized in
supervision missions that reporting, especially quarterly reporting, had to be improved with
regard to content and time. Remedial steps take by FCTIO improved the situation
somewhat but not yet to a satisfactory level.
Lesson: MOR should realize that adequate emphasis on
implementation of ongoing projects and feedback to the Bank
are essential for the successful preparation of new projects.
Further strengthening FCTIO should be considered.
10.   Project Relationship
10.1        The Bank relationship with the Government and MOR was good. Bank staff
were always well received and their comments were respected and acted upon by their
Chinese colleagues, both at MOR and the project subunits, who were very receptive to
suggestions.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1        A foreign firm  was successfully employed in modernization of the
Changchun Passenger Coach Factory. Other technical assistance, however, failed partially
(the CARS component), to a greater degree (the MIS study) or completely (MOR
universities). Chinese reluctance to use foreign consulting services to be paid out of loan
funds was the main underlying cause for abandoning the university component.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1        The Loan Agreement was well prepared and served its purpose adequately.
The few covenants were appropriate; they were all complied with.
12.2        The SAR was clearly written and provided a useful framework for all parties
during project implementation.
12.3        Information for the preparation of the PCR was provided by MOR and the
Changchun Passenger Coach Factory. Some additional information was also obtained
during supervision missions in October 1993 and May 1994, through extensive discussions
with MOR personnel and representatives of the Changchun Passenger Coach Factory.



- 16 -
PART II: PROJECT REVEEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. ZHENGZHOU-WUHAN LINE
2.1         Objectives of the Project. The Zhengzhou-Wuhan Line surpassing Henan
and Hubei provinces is one of the busiest section in the Beijing-Guangzhou Railway
Corridor which connects the south and north of China. The Zhengzhou-Wuhan Line
starting at the Zhengzhou North Marshalling Yard in the north, the biggest one in the Asia
to the Wuhan Terminal in the south, with total length of 547 km, plays very important role
in the Beijing-Guangzhou Corridor and even whole national railway network. The
construction of the project has ensured the commodity exchange between the north and the
south, and promoted the development of industry and agriculture in the central China and
improved the transportation capacity of the railway network as a whole.
2.2         Evaluation on Decision Correctness. Along with the reform and opening
to the outside world, as well as the development of the national economy, the existing line
capacity of Zhangzhou-Wuhan had been saturated, especially of the section between
Xingyang and Guangshui with gradient of 12.5 per thousand and surpassing the Dabishan
Mountain at the border of the two provinces. The diesel locomotive was used for this line
with yearly carrying capacity of only 37 mil. tons. However, the down bound traffic in
1984 had reached 41 mil. tons. Thus, the line became a bottleneck in Beijing-Guangzhou
Railway Corridor. After the normal operation of the electrification line at the end of 1992,
the yearly traffic carried has been more than 60 mil. tons and 22 pairs of passenger trains
per day. The constraints of transportation for this line has been relieved. All the above
has demonstrated that the decision of the project is correct.
2.3         Implementation of the Project. In order to respond the requirements by
the government for reducing the investment on the capital construction projects, the
original design of the project had to be revised in the early years of project
implementation, so as to reduce the total cost of the project, which caused two years delay
on project completion, and changed the closing date of the loan to June 30, 1994. The
electrification of Zhengzhou-Wuhan line was open to the traffic at the end of 1992. The
major objective of improving the capacity for the line has been achieved.
2.4         Procurement. In the early years of project implementation, the progress
of the procurement was rather slow. The reasons for such slippage was that the most of
staffs involved in the procurement and loan management in MOR were new hands to the
Bank operation and not familiar with the procurement procedures. Furthermore, there
were no sound management system and smooth working channels within MOR. Therefore,
in order to address these kinds of problems, MOR made a timely organization
restructuring, and set up the Foreign Capital and Technical Import Office composed of the
experienced people. As a result, the procurement progress was improved. However, the
loan was extended by two years due to the serious delays in the beginning of the project
implementation, which is a lesson for us to draw.



- 17 -
2.5         Construction Quality Evaluation. The future development for heavy haul
and density, and high speed was considered in the design of Zhengzhou-Wuhan Line.
Therefore, the high technology and full scale technical upgrading were applied not only
on the track, yard, signalling, interlocking and blocking system, but also on the traction
and power supply system for the electrification in which new technology and equipments,
and testing devices with the state-of-art technology were imported, and new technology of
"V" type reverse operation was introduced first time in China Railway. The design and
construction of the line had been satisfactory.
B. CHANGCHUN PASSENGER COACH FACTORY (CPCF)
2.6         Objectives of the project was to improve the quality and quantity of
passenger coaches by way of upgrading the manufacturing technology and machining
equipment for the CPCF. The objective was fully achieved when the project was
completed at the end of 1993.
2.7         Implementation of the Project. Based on the SAR, the CPCF project was
to be implemented by two phases. The loan of the railway II was only to finance the
Phase I of the project. At the Phase I, the CPCF signed a TA contract with an UN-based
company for a feasibility study aiming to address the expansion of the production and
product quality. It was also required by the contract to design a new kind of coach, and
train the people of the factory on modem technology and management method so as to help
improve the quality and quantity for the factory in the quickest way. Soon after the
completion of the TA and in order to implement the recommendations by TA consultants
as soon as possible, MOR consulted with the Bank for shifting 5 mil. USD from the
component of China Academy of Railway Science to the CPCF project so as to merge two
phases originally planned into one. The whole project was completed at the end of 1993.
Although it was two years delay for the completion of the CPCF component, the objectives
of the two phases have been achieved, realizing the manufacturing capacity with 1,500
coaches of new type per year. The fact shows the decision of the project is correct.
C. CHINA ACADEMY OF RAILWAY SCIENCE (CARS)
2.8         The purpose of construction of the track dynamic lab was to provide a
necessary means of testing for China Railway to analyze and address the lower loading
capacity of track structure, severe damage of components, too fast deterioration of track
geometry, short service life of rail and switches, too often overhaul and scheduled
maintenance of the track, all which are the problems for the railway transportation with
heavy haul, high density, heavy axle load and high speed. The project also aims to
provide a basis for the preparation of related technical policies, and revision and
optimization of the technical rules and criteria for track management.
2.9         The construction of the track dynamic lab has greatly enhanced the
capabilities of research and experiment on dynamics of track and rolling stocks for China
Railway, with a significance on research and improvement of the loading capacity of the



- 18 -
track, skills of track maintenance, optimization of the technical rules and criteria for the
track management, and enhancement of the technical level of the track.
2.10        A demonstration of the lab, just after its completion, was held in 1994 for
the foreign experts during then the International Railway Heavy Haul Conference in
Beijing. The demonstration made impression on everyone.
2.11        The construction of computer aided simulation testing lab for locomotive and
rolling stocks has played an important role on improvement of design skill of locomotives
and rolling stocks, acceleration of the research time for developing rolling stocks with new
models, upgrading of the old type locomotives and rolling stocks, so as to meet the
increasing demands for the transportation.
D. MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (MIS)
2.12        The purpose of the component was to help MOR set up a financial MIS at
the Mudanjiang Railway Subadministration as a pilot test and do some preparatory works
for MOR's modernization of the transportation dispatching and operation management.
After the completion of the component, Mudanjiang Subadministration, starting from the
information management of transportation, finance and statistics and expanded to
locomotive, wagons, track maintenance, signalling and telecommunication, personnel and
wages, education and office automation, has preliminarily possessed a cross-
subadministration MIS.
2.13        Evaluation of the Lending Policy and Performance. The focus of the
Bank policies in terms of the medium and long term lending to the member countries are
always to help member countries improve the infrastructure on the energy and
transportation and develop their economy, which are compatible with China's
requirements. The implementation of the Bank financed railway project shows the Bank's
policies are viable. However, the way of commitment charges needs to be further
improved so as to reflect some flexibilities. For example, the Bank could charge the
commitment fee just for the amount equivalent to 15 % of the total undisbursed amount of
the loan for the first year after the effectiveness of the loan; 45% of the total undisbursed
amount of the loan in the second year; 85% of the total undisbursed amount of the loan
in the third year and 100% of the total undisbursed amount of the loan in the fourth year.
The different commitment charges should be applied for the different projects with
different construction cycles. In this way, the charging system for commitment fee could
be more reasonable.
2.14        Evaluation of the Bank Staff.  The staffs sent by the Bank for the
preappraisal, appraisal, supervision and post evaluation all are diligent and hard-working,
and sometimes the Bank staffs concerned their work more than their health, which won the
high praise from MOR.
2.15        The World Bank missions came to China for supervision at least twice a
year, and often went to the construction site. The fact shows that the supervision did help



- 19 -
the progress of the project implementation, bidding and procurement, implementation of
the contract, project management and disbursement.
2.16        There were no issues related to the environment and resettlement in the
course of the project impl'ementation.



- 20 -
PART III: PROJECT STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR IDA CREDITS
[_Loan/Credit   __Purpose                                        _          Year of |_Status         Comments
| Tide      I                                                         I Approval I           I       
Ln. 2394-CHA   Construction of a 165 km single track from Xinxiang to Heze;    1984    Completed   Closed 12/31/90
First Railway    capacity increase of the existing 140 km Heze-Yanzhou sec-
Project         tion; track doubling of a 127 km section of the Datong-                          PCR of 06/24/91
Taiyuan line; electrification of the 355 km Datong-Taiyuan
line; doubling the production capacity of the Zhuzhou Electric
Locomotive Factory; technical assistance and training for the
factory staff; and undertaking a costing study (phase 1).
Cr. 1680-CHA/  Provision of additional capacity on the 456 km Chongqing-    1986    Completed   Closed 06/30/95
Ln. 2394-CHA   Guiyang line and the 704 km Yingtan-Ziamen line; improve-
Third Railway   ment of technology and increase of production of the Xi'an
Project         Railway Signaling Factory; provision of track maintenance
equipment for better permanent way maintenance; and continu-
ation of the traffic costing study started under the First
Railway Project.
Ln. 2968-CHA   Track doubling and panlial electrification of the 492 km     1988    In progress  Current closing
Fourth Railway  Yueshan-Xiangfan line; capacity expansion and quality                            date: 06/30/96
Project         improvement of three locomotive and rolling stock factories;
and development of a strategic plan for the capacity expansion
of the Beijing-Shanghai line.
Cr. 2014-CHA/  Construction of a 937 km single track line; acquisition and  1989    In progress  Current closing
Ln. 3060-CHA   installation of operational equipment; and recruitment and                        date: 12/31/96
Inner Mongolia  training of staff to operate the line.
Railway Project
Ln. 3406-CHA   Rehabilitation and maintenance of 500 km of track, 200 loco-  1991    In progress  Current closing
Fifth Railway    motives and 6,000 rolling stock; double tracking of 594 km of                   date: 12/31/98
Project         the Zhengan line; expansion of the Xuzhou terminal; and car-
rying out an action program of implementation of the railway
cost accounting system.
Ln. 3581-CHA   Electrification and modemization of the 694 km Beijing-      1993    In progress  Current closing
Sixth Railway    Zhengzhou line and the 1,094 km Chengdu-Kunming line; sys-                      date: 06/30/99
Project         temwide technological modemization for track maintenance
mechanization, telecommunications and a transport manage-
ment information system, and container transport. The policy
component comprises improvement of the efficiency of railway
investments, and the formulation and improvement of measures
to rationalize railway tariffs, modemization of MOR's account-
ing standards and improvement of railway management and
regulation. Technical assistance comprises the preparation and
implementation of action plans for expanding and modemizing
container transport, implementing more cost-effective railway
technology for capacity expansion, and strengthening MOR's
environmental protection.                                          .
Seventh Rail-   Policy reform and institutional development to provide techni-   1995 /a   Negotiated   Current closing
way Project     cal assistance to implement railway restructuring reform, tariff                 date: 12/31/01
reform, and labor productivity enhancement. Investment com-
ponents entail: electrification and modernization of the
1,044 km Wuhan-Guangzhou line; expanding capacity system-
wide (purchase of three-phase AC electric locomotives);
upgrading telecommunications systems; modernizing
information systems; commercializing container transport
(purchase of equipment and technical assistance to establish
and operate two or more container transport corporations); and
protecting the environment (polit-testing environmental
programs and upgrading MOR's environmental management
system).
aScheduled for Board approval on June 1, 1995.



- 21 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                                Planned        Revised        Actual
First mentioned in files                          03/11/82
Government's application                            N/A
Project Brief                                                    03/13/84
Preappraisal mission               00/04/84                      03/28/84
Appraisal mission                  00/09/84       00/10/84       10/09/80
Loan negotiations completed        04/05/85                      04/12/85
Board approval                     05/20/85                      05/14/85
Loan signature                        --                        08/26/85
Loan effectiveness                    --                         11/22/85
Loan closing                       06/30/92       06/30/94       06/30/94
Loan completion                     12/31/91      06/30/94       06/30/94
Source: Bank staff.
Table 3A: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
($ millions)
IBRD FY            1986 1987 1988 1989  1990 1991 1992 1993  1994 1995
Appraisal estimate    3.8 45.4 112.9163.4 214.0 235.0
Actual             14.6 24.9 41.4 76.4 115.2 146.0 181.3 213.6 219.5 219.7
Actual as % of
estimate         384.1 54.8  36.6 46.8  53.8 62.1  NA  NA   NA  NA
Notes: (1) $15.00 million cancelled effective 04/22/91.
(2) $332,177.71 canceled effective 11/03/94.
(3) The final disbursement was made on 11/03/94.
Source: Bank staff.



- 22 -
Table 3B: DISBURSEMENTS BY CATEGORY
($ millions)
Allocation                Actual Amount
Category                                        at Appraisal                   Disbursed
Equipment and materials /a                         208.00                       216.41
Consultant's services
and training                                      7.00                         3.26
Consultant's services
and overseas tours /b                             0.00                         0.00
Unallocated                                         20.00                         0.00
Total                                          235.00                      219.67
/a $15.00 million cancelled effective 04/22/91; $332,177.71 canceled effective
11/03/94.
/b This category was added on 03/21/91.
Source: Bank Staff.
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
[  Appraisal Estimate] Revised Date J     Actual or PCR Estimate
Zhengzhou-Wuhan          12/91                     Essentially completed in 12/92. A few
Upgrading and                                      items remained unfinished until early 1994.
Electrification
Changchun                12/88           06/92     Completed by 12/93. Revised date due to
Passenger Coach                                    coalescing of the two phases.
Factory
Chinese Academy          12/89                                      03/94
of Railway Sciences
MIS study                12/88           02/93     Different pilot project completed by 11/92.
Continuation of the MIS under the Sixth
and Seventh Railway Projects.
MOR universities      Not defined                  Not implemented
4 studies under          N/A             12/91                      04/92
Railways V
Source: Staff Appraisal Report, MOR and Bank staff.



- 23 -
Table 5A: PROJECT COSTS
($ million)
Appraisal               Actual
Local   Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
Zhengzhou - Wuhan Line       224.2    180.0  404.2  310.9   188.1  499.0
Changchun Coach Factory        1.3      7.2    8.5    7.2    15.3   22.5
Academy                        4.3     11.6   15.9   8.3       9.7    18.0
MIS study                      0.0      0.5    0.5    0.0      3.3     3.3
4 studies under Railways V     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0      3.3     3.3
Total Base Costs /a      229.8    199.2  429.0      -       -       -
Physical Contingencies        19.8      4.8   24.6    -        -       -
Price Contingencies /a        71.4    43.9   115.4    -        -       -
Total Project Costs /a   321.1    248.0  569.1  326.4  219.7  546.1
/a Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Source: Staff Appraisal Report and MOR.
Table 5B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal                Actual
Government    Bank    Government   Bank
(Y mln)     ($ mln)    (Y mln)    ($ mln)
Zhengzhou - Wuhan Line         1,086.3       176.2     1,464.7      188.1
Changchun Coach Factory           21.6        7.2         29.1       15.3
Academy                           41.0        11.6        44.4        9.7
MIS study                          0.0        0.5          0.0        3.3
4 studies under Railways V         0.0         0.0         0.0        3.3
Contingencies                    184.9       39.5          -          -
Total /a                    1333.8       235.0      1,538.2     219.7
/a Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Note: 0.35 is exchange rate of 1 Yuan at appraisal.
Source: Staff Appraisal Report and MOR.



- 24 -
Table 6: PRoJEcr RESULTS
Economic Impact
Economic Rate of Return - %
Appraisal
Base          Estimate                  Actual
Zhengzhou - Wuhan Line      Best estimate       24                        16
1 /a            23                        15
2 /b            23                        15
3 /c            25                        18
Changchun Coach Factory /d  Best estimate       47                        25
4 /e            37                        18
Overall ERR                                     25                        16
/a 20% increase of project costs.
/b 20% increase of coal mine development costs.
/c 20% decrease of coal mine development costs.
/d For reasons set forth in Annex 3, the actual ERR is not comparable to the ERR
reported in the SAR.
/e 50% per year reduction of benefits.



- 25 -
Table 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS
[   Covenant   |                    Subject                     Compliance          Status
Section 3.03     Commence MIS study                             1/31/1986   Complied with.
The scope was
expanded to include
transportation. The
work is now being
interfaced with the
proposed Seventh
l___________________________________________  ____________   R ailw ay   Project.
Section 3.04     Carry out the training in accordance with a                Complied with
program agreed with the Bank                               except for TA for
MOR Universities.
Section 3.05     Carry out four studies (added on March 21,    12/31/1991  Complied with by
1991) and furnish reports on those studies                 04/92.
Section 4.01 (a)  Maintain records and accounts adequate to                 Complied with.
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, the operations and financial condi-
tions of each of the Project Subunits
Section 4.01 (b)  In respect of the accounts:
(i) have them, including Special Accounts,     Annually   Complied with
audited each fiscal year by independent auditors  commencing  since 1987.
using appropriate auditing principles consis-    1986
tently applied;
(ii) furnish, not later than six months after the    6/30/1986   Complied with
end of each fiscal year, a certified copy of the   and annually  since 1987.
audit report;                                  thereafter
(iii) furnish other information concerning the             Complied with.
accounts as shall be from time to time
requested
Section 4.01 (c)  For all expenses made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure:
(i) maintain separate records and accounts;                Complied with.
(ii) retain all records until one year after the  6/30/1995   Not yet due.
Closing Date;
(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to exam-           Complied with.
ine such records;
(iv) include the separate accounts in the annual           Complied with.
audit and submit a separate opinion by the audi-
tors as to whether the proceeds of the Loan
have been used for the purpose for which they
were provided
Source: Bank staff.



- 26 -
Table 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs
FY         1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   199(0   1991    1992   1993    1994    Total
Preparation/Preappraisal            21.8                                                                             21.8
Appraisal                           71.1                                                                             71.1
Negotiations                         7.0                                                                              7.0
Supervisioni                         0.5    11.7    5.2   10.7    8.2    9.7    14.9   13.5    10.9    8.6    93.9
B. Mission Data
Stage of            Month/           No. of      Days in        Specialization         Performance          Types of
Project Cycle           Year            Staff       Field         Represented /a       Rating Status /b      Problems /c
Preparation           Oct 1982            5             8      EGR,ECN,FNA, 2C
Preparation           Jul 1983            9            10      EGR,ECN,FNA, 4C
Preappraisal         Apr 1984             9           20       EGR,ECN,FNA, 5C
Appraisal             Oct 1982            7           30       EGR,ECN,FNA, 3C
Supervision
1.              Oct 1985            3             7           EGR/FNA                    I                  ---
2.              Oct 1987             1            6            C [EGRJ                  n/a                 ---
3.              Mar 1988             1            5            C [EGRI                  n/a                  ---
4.              May 1989             1             3             EGR                    n/a                  ---
5.              Oct 1989             1            2            C IEGR]                  n/a                  ---
6.             Jun/Jul 1990          2             7           EGR/FNA                   2                T, M, F
7.            OctVNov 1990          2             6          FNA,C [EGRI                 2                T, M, F
8.            FebiMar 1991           2            5          FNA,C [EGRI                 2                T, M, F
9).              Oct 1991            3             3      EGR/FNA/C [EGR]                2                T, M, F
10).           May/Jun 1992          3             4         FNA,Cx2 [EGRI                2                T, M, F
11.              Nov 1992            3             5         FNA,Cx2 [EGRI                2                T, M, F
12.              Apr 1993            3             4       EGR/FNA/C [EGRI                2                T, M, F
13.              Oct 1993            3             5       EGR/FNA/C [EGRI                2                T, M, F
14.              Mav 1994            3             5         FNA,Cx2 [EGRI               n/a                M, F
/a  C - Consultant, EGR = Engineer, ECN = Economist, FNA = Financial Analyst, ESP   Environmental Specialist,
MEC = Mechanical Engineering Consultant, MISC = MIS Consultant.
/6  I  Problem-free of Minor Problems, 2   Moderate Problems.
/c  T - Technical, M  = Management. F = Financial, 0 = Other.



- 27 -                          ANNEX 1
INCOME STATEMENTS
1.          The evaluation of MOR's financial performance should be seen in the
following context:
(a)   Transfers to the Government consisted in 1984 and 1985 of an income
tax of 55 percent on net revenues and a business tax of 5.35 percent
applied on gross operating revenues from base tariffs [see (b)]; from
1986 to 1989 the transfer was a business tax only; from 1990 to 1993,
transfers consisted of the business tax and an annual lump sum payment
of Y 2.0 billion; from 1991 [when the freight surcharge was
introduced-see (b)] a 0.24 percent business tax on surcharge revenues
was applied in addition to the 5.35 percent business tax and the annual
lump-sum transfer; since 1994 transfers are the two kinds of business tax
and an income tax of 33 percent applied to net operating revenues from
base tariffs [see (b)];
(b)   Railway revenues are, by Government decree, divided into two parts: the
first is from base tariffs, which covers operating expenses and contributes
to the net income of the railway's transport operation; the second comes
from a Railway Construction Fund freight surcharge introduced in 1991,
which is earmarked for capital investments and cannot be used to meet
operating expenses. This separation has served the Government's effort
to control MOR's operating costs;
(c)   Tariff increases consist of across-the-board increases and selective
increases. Until MOR became responsible for financing all of its
expenditures in 1986, its tariffs had changed little since the mid-1960s.
On September 1, 1989, average passenger fares were increased by 112
percent; average freight rates were increased by 24 percent in March
1990. On March 15, 1991, MOR was allowed to introduce a freight
surcharge of 0.2 fen per tkm; the surcharge was increased to 1.2 fen and
2.7 fen per tkm on July 1, 1992 and July 1, 1993, respectively.
Selective increases in freight rates (for example, new rates for new lines)
and passenger fares (for example, higher fares during periods of high
demand in selected administrations) have taken place in 1994 and 1995;
no across-the-board tariff increases were implemented since 1994;
(d)   In 1986, the Government and MOR entered into an economic contract
under which MOR must finance all of its operating and capital
expenditures (until 1984, capital expenditures were financed from the



- 28 -                          ANNEX 1
State budget as a grant; in 1985 the financing was a budget loan). In
return, MOR is allowed to keep its net income after transfers to the
Government [see (a) above];
(e)   In 1991, a Railway Law was enacted that lays down the powers and
obligations of the central and local governments, MOR, the railway
customers (shippers and passengers), and the public at large, pertaining
to railway construction, ownership, management, tariff-setting, and
operations (including service quality, passenger safety, and environmental
protection). With regard to tariffs, adjustments of the base tariffs and
freight surcharge require approval from SPC/State Council. MOR's
flexibility in tanif setting is thus limited.
2.           In July 1993, MOF issued new national accounting guidelines with the
objective to bring China's accounting system closer to international accounting
standards. In response to these new guidelines, MOR revised its accounting guidelines,
classification of accounts and reporting in financial statements. MOR is developing
accounting policies for the railways, with the assistance of consultants, under Railways
VI.
3.           MOR has undertaken studies and developed tools to introduce financial
and technical reforms in its operations. In the costing area, the costing manual has
been prepared under Railways V and a costing model was developed under Railways
VI. This model has been used to underpin requests in tariff increases to SPC in 1994
and 1995. In the area of investment planning, the initial Railway Investment Study was
completed under Railways V and has been used to prioritize future investments in the
railways; these results also supported the Government's decision in 1992 to raise the
economic growth rate for infrastructure investment planning from 6 percent a year to 8-
9 percent. In the technical area, six studies funded under Railways IV, V and VI
focused on technical improvements with systemwide implications, including its
telecommunications and information systems, maintenance and rehabilitation of tracks
and locomotives and rolling stock, electrification, and heavy haul operations. MOR
applied their findings in modernizing the railways.
4.           Finally, several studies were launched under Railways VI to deal with
tariffs and costing, accounting issues, as well as regulations, management concerns, and
restructuring. They provided a basis for: (a) rationalizing tariffs in the market
framework; (b) redefining the Government-railways relationship; (c) restructuring the
monolithic railway organization into a number of profit-oriented, market-focused
enterprises; (d) bolstering the railways' treasury capability; (e) improving its labor
productivity; (f) rationalizing its diversified businesses; (g) reforming its housing
system; and (h) enhancing its human resources. Some of the studies' results support
the Bank's reform assistance under Railways VII.



Table 1: AcTuAL AND FORECAST CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDING DECEMBER 31
(in Y million)
1984      1984     1985     1985      1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993      1994     1995
Appraisal   Actual  Appraisal  Actual   Actual  Actual  Actual  Actual  Actual  Actual  Actual  Actual  Forecast  Forecast
VOLUTME
t're-gnt (tkm bil.)                 693       724      724       809      870     946      986   1,037   1,048   1,081   1,141   1,192    1,241      1,303
Passenger (pkm bil.)                190       203      203       241      258     284      326     303     260     281     313     348      360       380
Total (ctkm bil.)                 883       927      927      1,050    1,128   1.230   1,312   1.340   1.308   1,362   1,454   1,540    1,601      1.683
REVENUES
PREITlT 11647    13.215   12 171    15:773   17.707  19,186  19,925  22,007  27.213  31,139  39.229  58,402   68.876    72 317
From rates                      fft-47    T2,Zl        7 IZ,1/1         TT7952/    I7h213                         14i  JUt52 3      5    33U3 9 0  3,LT
From surcharge                       -         -        -         -        -        -       -       -       -   1,996   8,604  24,347   33,507    35,181
PASSENGERS                         3,377     3,663    3,613     4,545    4,999   5,563   6,381   7,665  11,090  12,180  13,814  15,882   17,172    25,726
OTHER                               742       871      764      1,072    1,205   1,463   1,756   1,935   2,802   3,385   3,428   6,010    6,280      6,594
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES  15.766    17,749   16,548    21,390   23,911  26,212  28.062  31,607  41.105  46,704  56.471  80.294   92,328   104,637
EXPENSES
UJFERATING EXPENSES
Payroll                          1,286     1,291    1,404      1,571    2,582   2,897   3,444   3,905   4,277   5,566   7,400   9,500   11,487    13,555
Materials                        1,060      1,067    1,113     1,361    1,553   1,820   2,598   2,870   3,258   3.772   4,825   6,777    7,209      8,002
Energy.                          1,763     1,781    1,955     2,253    2,596   2,644   3,075   3,383   3,846   4,351   5,393   8,513   10,597    13,246
Electi ciy                           -         -         -        -        -    389      530     740      897   1,023   1,290   2,285    3,259      4,497
Major Repairs                    2,103     2,159    2,226     2,510    2,993   3,314   3,414   5,874   6,527   7,277   8,085   8,915   11,435    13,207
De1reciation                     1,803     2,159    1,908     2,510    2,993   3,314   3,414   3,924   4,356   4,864   5 402   5,943    6,448       7 996
Oither                             678       721      738       943    2.437   2,912   3,797   4,286   4,646   5,656   3,416   5,708    6,711       7 986               k)
Inflation                          143         -      319         -        -        -       -       -       -       -       -        -        -         -
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES    8,836          9,178    9.663    11,148   15,154  17.290  20,272  2        27,     32,509  35,811  47.641   57146 
OPERATING INCOME                 6 930     8 571    6.885    10,242    8.757   8,922   7790   6,625  13.298  14,195  20.660  32.653   35.182    36.148
Nonoper,ati,ng Income from            263      (506)     271      (478)     849     992      865     479     200      49     237     399      400       410
subsidiaries & factories
NONOPERATING EXPENSES
Interest                               -         -        -         -        -    992      754   1,871   1,940   2,115   1,763   3 092    4 534      6,448
Nonoperating expenses               686          -     747          -        -       -       -       -       -        -   3,815   4,445    3,080     3,480
INCOME BEFORE TAXES              6.507     8.065    6 a49     9.764    9.606   8.922   7.901   5,233  11.558  12,129  15,19  25.515   27,968    26,63
Business tax                       2,365     2,662    2,482     3,368    1,265   1,382   1,487   1,675   2,188   2,499   2,693   3,130   (1,005)   (1,055)
Income tax                         2,278     2,971    2,160     3,517        -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -         -
Transfers to gov't                  765          -     780          -        -       -       -       -  2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000          -         -
NET INCOME                       1,099     2.432      987     2,879    8,341   7,540   6.414   3,558   7 370   7.630  10,626  20,385   28,973   27.685
Of which allocated to:
Retained Profits                   1,099     2,432     987      2,879    8,341   6,121   4,952   2,258   5,870   4,111   3,907    (734)  (2,911)   (4,355)
SpeiLal Fund for Health & Welfare--                       -         -        -   1.419   1,462   1,300   1,500   1,630               ----
Cway Construction Fund                 -         -        -         -        -       -       -       -        -   1,889   6,719  21,119   31,884    32,040
Working Ratio:
Netl oTSurcharge Revenues           45%       40%      47        40%      51%    53%    60%       67%    57%    62%    64%    75%           86%       87%
Including SItrharge Revenues        45%       40%      47%       40%      51%     53%     60%     67%     57%      59%     54%     52%      55%       58%
Operatin   tio:                                                                                                                                                             Z
NetofSurcharge Revenues             56%       52%      58%       52%      63%     66%     72%      79%     68%     73%     75%      85%      97%       99%                ri
Including Surcharge Revenues        56%       52%      58%       52%      63%     66%     72%     79%     68%      70%     63%     59%      62%       65%
Source. MOR and Bank staff, November 1994.



Table 2: LINE GROSS OPERATING REVENUE AND COST (1993)
WITH AND WrrHoUr PROJECT
(Y million)
Salaries     Energy         Others     Maior repairs   Depreciation       Total
W/out  With W/out  With  W/out  With  W/out  With  W/out  With   W/out    With
1.  Operation:
Steam locomotive    P   0.67   0.67  0.89   0.89   0.06   0.06    -     -     0.29   0.29      1.91     1.91
F   9.69   9.69  19.94  19.94   1.7    1.7    -      -      1.57   1.57    32.9    32.9  IGross Operating Revenue    Without    With
Diesel locomotive   P   3.44   8.26 86.4    2.46   1.4   0.07   -       -      4.53   0.75    95.77     3.54
F   9.45   2.2 251.6   28.06   0.83   0.34   -       -    21.42   3.04   283.3    33.64 JFreight traffic (bin tkm):  46.14    53.60
Electric locomotive  P   -   2.62   -    25.38   -       2.02    -      -      -      3.73     -       35.75
F   -      6.29   -   172.74   -    11.49   -        -      -    14.93       -     205.45 JUnit revenue (fen/tkm):    5.35     5.35
Passenger coaches   P   2.0    1.6   1.53   0.93  10.34   8.59    -     -    13.41  10.67    17.28    21.79 lGross Freight Revenue
Freight cars      F   -       -     -       -   132.3  106.03    -      -    45.6   33.52   177.9   139.55 1 (Y mln):                2,468.40 2,867.60
Train operations  P  10.3    9.76  0.7    0.5    0.34   4.88    -       -      -      -       17.34    15.14
F   5.32   4.25   -      -    12.53   9.93    -      -       -      -      17.85    14.18 IPassenger Traffic (bin pkm):   8.97    11.67
Power facilities  P   0.31   2.06   1.51  10.36   0.8    2.29    -      -      0.01   0.26     2.63    14.97
F   1.42   8.27  3.3   39.77   1.4   9.15                   0.2    1.05     6.32    58.22 lUnit Revenue (fen/pkm):    4.43     4.43
Subtotal -     P  16.72  16.97 90.33  42.52  18.94  17.91                  18.24  15.7   144.23    93.10 1
Operations   F  25.88  30.7 274.84 260.49  I48.76 138.64                 68.79  54.11   518.27   483.94 IGross Pass. Revenue (Y min): 397.30    56.98
11.  Stations &        P  12.30  10.02   1.60   1.43  11.61   9.25           -      -      -      25.51    20.70 1Total freight & passenger
Thermals         F  53.43   4.49  8.34   7.21  42.5   37.02    -       -      -      -      104.27    89.13 Jrevenue (Y mmn):       2,865.70 3,384.58
111. Maintenance
Steam locomotive    P   0.38   0.38  0.03   0.03   1.13   1.13   -      -      -      -        1.54     1.54
F   4.77   4.77  0.23   0.23   4.54   4.54   1.55   1.55   -        -      11.09    11.09 ISales tax (15%. Y mln):  121.51   143.51
Diesel locomotve   P   4.51   2.80 20.68   0.19  26.4   11.21   5.45   3.83    -      -       57.04    18.03
F   9.43   6.65 21.83   1.02  66.8   44.8   21.37  15.33   -        -     199.43    47.87 INet sales revenue (Y mln): 2.744.19 3,241.07
Electric          P   -      0.26   -       -      -      1.56   -      0.34   -      -        -        2.16
locomotive       F   -      1.51   -      -      -      6.31    -     3.21    -      -        -       11.03
Operation         P   -       -     -       -     2.3   10.62   -       -      -      -        2.3    10.62
facilities       F   -       -     -      -      4.15  28.54   -       -      -      -       4.15    28.54
Passengercoaches   P   4.53   3.66  0.93   0.69   0.43   6.18  11.4    8.22   -       -       25.29    18.75
Freight cars      F   -       -     -       -     3.54   2.36  42.3   34.47   -       -       45.84    36.83
Track & per-      P   4.03   4.24  0.31   0.35  16.3   17.22  15.14  18.63  14.8   15.02    50.58    55.46
manent way       F  18.93  21.24   1.34   1.82  65.4   68.89  63.51  74.53  65.31  69.87   214.49   236.35
Teleconim. &      P   1.91   1.95  0.54   0.69   4.1    4.47   1.1    1.3    1.02   1.22       8.67     9.63
signaling        F   8.92   9.80  2.13   2.47  15.4   17.89   4.13   5.23   4.14   4.96    34.72    40.35
Buildings         P   0.7    0.95  0.07   0.09   1.43   2.23   2.45   3.39   2.1    3.28       6.75     9.94
F   2.84   3.21   0.31   0.42   5.32  11.05   8.31  13.61   9.4   13.13    26.19    39.35
Miscellaneous     P   -       -     -       -    13.43  12.49   5.15   4.72   1.36   0.89    19.94    18.10
F   -      -      -      -    21.31  19.27  15.76  14.06   2.93   2.61    40.0    35.94
Subtotal -     P  16.06  14.24 22.56   2.04  73.52  67.11  40.69  38.43  19.28  20.41   172.11   144.23
Maintenance   F  44.89  47.18 25.84   5.96 186.46 201.65 156.93 161.99  81.48  90.47   495.90   507.25
Overhead          P   7.41   6.25  0.3    0.06  19.32  17.03            -      5.14   5.32    32.17    27.66
F  37.86  31.3   0.52   0.28  74.36  68.17    -      -    24.23  17.31   136.97   117.06
Total              P  52.49  47.48 114.79  46.05 123.39 111.3   40.69  40.43  42.66  40.43   374.02   285.69
F 162.06 154.08 309.54 277.94 452.08 445.48 156.45 161.99 174.8  161.99 1,255.41 1,197.48
Total Passenger &
Freight Cost        214.55 201.56 424.33 319.99 575.47 556.78 197.62 202.42 217.46 202.42 1,629.43 1.483 17
Net Operating Revenue                                                                          1.114.76 1.757.90
Source: MOR, September 1994.



- 31 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 3: CHANGCHUN PASSENGER FACToRY:
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT, 1985-92
(Y million)
Item                          1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
No. of cars produced/a           -       -       -  1,159   1,130   1,081   1,054   1,272
Gross revenues              166.01  186.90  229.84  277.24  333.24  414.14  437.42  533.55
Sales tax                     8.27    9.25    9.46   10.66   12.43   10.86   18.17   18.11
Net sales revenue           157.74  177.65  220.38  266.58  300.81  403.28  419.25  515.44
Working expenses            126.17  144.67  190.61  231.29  312.93  343.43  356.49  468.91
Other expense                    -   0.06    0.09    0.11    0.12    0.10    0.35    0.30
Subtotal - Working expense    126.17  144.73  190.70  231.40  313.05  343.53  356.84  469.21
Basic depreciation            8.18    9.13    9.72   10.41   11.32   13.48   15.41   17.80
Total operating expense     134.35  153.86  200.42  241.81  324.37  356.99  372.25  487.01
Net operating revenues       23.39   23.79   19.96   24.77   -3.56   46.29   47.00   28.43
Nonoperating revenues            -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -
Other revenues                   -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -
Total operating revenues     23.39   23.79   19.96   24.77   -3.56   46.29   47.00   28.43
Nonoperating expenses         2.33    2.69    4.47    6.72    7.66    9.57   10.34   12.25
Interest                      0.55    1.04    2.44    3.04    7.50   14.45    9.37    8.05
Profit before tax            20.51   20.06   13.05   15.01  -18.72   22.27   27.29    8.13
Income tax                       -       -       -      -       -       -       -       -
Profit after tax             20.51   20.06   13.05   15.01  -18.72   22.27   27.29    8.13
Working ratio (%)            79.99   81.47   86.53   86.80   97.58   85.18   85.11   91.00
Operating ratio (%)          85.17   86.61   90.94   90.71  101.11   88.52   88.79   95.00
Net fixed assets             91.51   98.86  105.83  115.08  122.94  161.37  179.09  193.87
Actual rate of return           26     24      20      22      -3      29     26      19
Estimated rate of return (SAR)  21     25      30      32      25     29      34      42
/a Converted production.
Source: MOR, September 1994.



-32 -                           ANNEX 2
ECONOMIC REEVALUATION OF ZHENGZHOU-WUHAN
TRACK UPGRADING AND ELECTRIFICATION
Project Capital Costs
1.          All capital costs have been revised to 1994 prices for both the PCR and
SAR.
2.          The development of a conversion factor for the PCR's project capital
costs is shown in detail in Table 2.1. The foreign cost has been converted to Yuan by
using an 8.7 shadow exchange rate. The resultant conversion factor for this project
component is 0.95.
3.          The PCR economic project costs are 30.7 percent higher than those
reported in the SAR (adjusted to comparable 1994 prices levels). The details are
reported in Table 2.2a and are summarized on a year-by-year basis as follows:
ECONOMIC PROJECT CAPITAL COST
(Million Yuan)
SAR                               PCR
Year                 1984 prices            1994 prices            1994 prices
1986                     164.2                  288.1                   76.5
1987                     376.9                  620.1                  181.2
1988                     278.3                  412.2                  246.4
1989                     245.2                  342.3                  410.4
1990                     221.2                  290.9                  564.3
1991                      11.6                    14.6                 611.6
1992                        -                      -                   230.4
1993                                                                    82.9
1994                        -                      -                   168.6
Total               1.297.4                2,572.3               2,572.3
Difference                                                + 30.7%



- 33 -                          ANNEX 2
4.          The increased economic project costs are attributable to two major
developments: (a) subsequent changes and additions to the initial design that resulted in
a scope of work considerably larger than the plan that was evaluated at appraisal (see
Table 2.2b); (b) budgetary constraints that precluded MOR from adhering to the
original implementation schedule-a factor that shifted the project to a later period
marked by higher-than-anticipated cost inflation.
Other Capital Costs
5.          This railway development is part of an integrated coal production and
distribution system. All coal transport-related capital costs, therefore, should be
considered within the cost stream. The detail comparisons are in Table 2.2 and
summarized as follows:
(a)   Coal Mine Investment Costs. The economic cost is calculated at
Y 653.0/ton/year, on the basis of an investment model described in the
Sixth Railway Project and updated to 1994 prices in the Seventh Railway
Project (December 1994). This value is about 60 percent higher than the
corresponding figure used in the SAR (Y 407.3/ton/year at 1994 prices).
As in the SAR, coal mine development is assumed to be spread equally
over the five years prior to production increments. With respect to
volume, current projections call for incremental traffic on the line to
grow to 33.83 million tons by 2015 or almost 30 percent less than the
47.8 million tons indicated in the SAR. Taken together, the higher cost
of creating new production and lower volume estimate yields an overall
amount for mine investment in the PCR that is 25.5 percent higher than
in the SAR. The detailed calculations are shown in Table 2.3 and
estimated in Table 2.2a.
(b)   110 kV Power Line. Current costs in the SAR and the PCR have been
converted to 1994 constant economic prices. The investment on this item
has been delayed by five years, and the actual total investment is
53.7 percent lower than the SAR estimate.
(c)   Equipment and Rolling Stock. The financial and economic prices (as of
January 1, 1994) for freight locomotives (electric and diesel) and for
freight wagons are presented in the table below (these data are reported
in the Seventh Railway Project). According to MOR, 114 electric units
have replaced a comparable number of diesel locomotives on the project
route. Consequently, only the difference in their respective economic
costs properly are attributed as a complementary cost to the project. To
accommodate the incremental freight traffic, MOR indicates that 1,185
wagons have been acquired. Since the project is not expected to result in
altering the volume the volume of passenger traffic, no complementary
equipment costs (or benefits) have been quantified for passenger coaches.



-34 -                           ANNEX 2
Taken together, equipment and rolling stock outlays are 81 percent lower
than the SAR estimate (see Table 2.2a).
Financial     Economic           Unit           Total cost
-------- (Y million) --------  (net increase)  (Y million)
Locomotives:
1. Electric          5.7          7.4
2. Diesel            3.1          4.0
Net (1)-(2)                     3.4                114            387.60
Wagons                0.133        0.159             1,185            187.94
Total                                                             575.54
Project Benefits
6.           Traffic. Actual traffic performance was lower than the SAR forecast
(Table 2.4). The future growth of coal transport is also expected to be lower than the
SAR estimate due to the completion of two other railways within the next three years
(Jiaocheng railway in 1995 and Jingjiu railway in 1997). The total traffic of the
railway, however, is expected to reach its designed capacity of 70 million tons per year
in the year 2011.
7.           Coal Value-Added. All the coal transported by the railway over the
project route is for consumption by domestic users. Therefore, the economic
contribution of coal is considered to be much greater within the domestic economy than
as an export item. Utilizing the coal investment model referred to above, and allowing
for capital recovery (depreciation), the value of the induced traffic made possible by
this project is calculated at Y 131 per ton in 1994 prices (see Working Paper 24,
Railways VII-China, p. 3 and Working Paper 22, Railways VI-China, p. 4). This
figure is applied to the incremental traffic delineated in Tables 2.2a and 2.3 to yield the
benefits reported in Table 2.5.
8.           Nonquantified Benefits. Additional benefits-and hence a higher
economic rate of return-are associated with the lower operating and maintenance costs
of electric as contrasted with diesel locomotives. Because adequate data are not
available, these savings have not been quantified here (as well, theses benefits were not
documented in the SAR). Furthermore, from an environmental perspective, the
benefits of electrification also are of consequence. This is particularly evident in



- 35 -                         ANNEX 2
maintenance shops where a serious environmental problem-the disposition of waste
diesel oils-is avoided by the substitution of electric units.
Least-Cost Alternatives for Electrification
9.          Without electrification of the existing railway, the congestion of the
railway line will lead to the building or upgrading of a new nonelectrified railway line
to meet the traffic demand. The capital cost of such an alternative will be much higher
than electrification of the existing facility (see Railways VII SAR, Corridor Expansion
Component).
Reevaluated Economic Rate of Return (RERR) and Sensitivity Analysis
10.         Based on all the inputs stated above, the detailed RERR and sensitivity
analysis of this railway line, in comparison with the SAR, are shown on Table 2.5 and
summarized as follows:
SAR        PCR
Best estimate                  24%        16%
Project cost:
20% Increase                 23%         15%
Coal mine development
cost:
20% Increase                 23%         15%
20% Decrease                 25%         18%



-36 -                                      ANNEX 2
Table 2.1: ZHENGZHOU-WUHAN LINE: PRICE CONVERSION FAcrOR
(Y million)
Conver-
sion      Financial - Current       Shadow priced           Econornic - 1994
factor   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Land                    0.80     189.63   0.00    189.63   151.70   0.00    151.70   222.79   0.00    222.79
Labor:
Unskilled              0.54    106.67   0.00    106.67    57.60   0.00   57.60    84.59   0.00    84.59
Semiskilled/Technician  0.80   105.18   0.00    105.18   84.14   0.00    84.14   123.57   0.00    123.57
Supervisor             2.00     74.07   0.00    74.07   148.14   0.00    148.14   217.56   0.00    217.56
Materials:
Steel                  1.00     44.44 299.10   343.54    44.44 299.10   343.54    65.26 309.13    374.39
Timber                 1.00     19.26  31.09    50.35    19.26  31.09    50.35    28.29  32.13    60.42
Cement                 1.00     38.52  65.93    104.45    38.52  65.93    104.45    56.57  68.14    124.71
Sand                   0.80      5.93   0.00     5.93     4.74   0.00     4.74     6.96   0.00     6.96
Stone                  0.80    162.96   0.00    162.96   130.37   0.00    130.37   191.46   0.00    191.46
Bitumen                1.00      1.48   0.00      1.48    1.48   0.00     1.48    2.17   0.00      2.17
Others                 0.80    103.70   1.61    105.31    82.96   1.61    84.57   121.83   1.66    123.49
Fuel:
Diesel                 1.00     10.37   0.00     10.37    10.37   0.00   10.37    15.23   0.00    15.23
Gasoline               1.00     14.81   0.00     14.81    14.81   0.00   14.81    21.75   0.00    21.75
Heavy oil              1.00      1.48   0.00     1.48     1.48   0.00     1.48    2.17   0.00      2.17
Others                 1.00      8.89   0.00     8.89     8.89   0.00     8.89    13.06   0.00    13.06
Electricity             2.00     37.04   0.00    37.04    74.08   0.00    74.08   108.79   0.00    108.79
Water                   1.00      14.81   0.00    14.81    14.81   0.00    14.81    21.75   0.00   21.75
Construction            0.80    204.44   0.00   204.44   163.55   0.00    163.55  240.19   0.00   240.19
Mechanical equipment    1.00    263.70 138.30   402.00   263.70 138.30   402.00   387.27 142.94   530.21
Others                  0.80     74.09   0.00    74.09    59.27   0.00    59.27    87.04   0.00    87.04
Total                       1,481.5  536.0   2 017.5  1,374.3  536.03  1.910.3  2.018.3  554.0   2 572.3
Overall conversion factor                                                  0.95



-37 -                                             ANNEX 2
Table 2.2a: ZHENGZHOU-WUHAN LINE: COAL TRAFFIC AND
ECONOMIC COST COMPARISONS
(Y million)
Traffic
(million tons)    Project Capital Cost      Mine Investment        110 kV Power Line      Rolling Stock
Incre-      SAR         PCR         SAR          PCR         SAR      PCR        SAR         PCR
Year      SAR  PCR  mental  1984    1994    1994   1984        1994    1994    1984  1994  1994   1984      1994   1994
1986     37.0 32.08          164.2   288.1    76.5   141.5   325.9        0.0  0.0    0.0   0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0
1987     37.0 33.80          376.9   620.1   181.2   187.7   432.3        0.0  21.2  48.8  0.0    23.6    54.3    0.0
1988     37.0 34.39          278.3   412.2   246.4   211.5   487.1        3.3  21.2  48.8  0.0    23.6    54.3   0.0
1989     37.0 36.01          245.2   342.3   410.4   235.4   542.1    344.8  21.2   48.8  0.0    23.6    54.3    0.0
1990     37.0 36.21          221.2   290.9   564.3   260.8   600.6    703.9  21.2   48.8  0.0   184.5   424.9   0.0
1991     45.9 33.81           11.6    14.6   611.6   144.7   333.2   743.1                  0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0
1992     48.8 36.17                          230.4    98.6   227.1    743.1                 36.8    60.1   138.4  575.5
1993     50.3 36.27  0.10                     82.9    74.7    172.0   818.2                54.1    35.0    80.6   0.0
1994     51.8 41.50  5.33                     168.6    50.9    117.2    515.9                       37.6    86.6   0.0
1995     53.4 47.00 10.83                              25.4    58.5    197.2                        39.7    91.4    0.0
1996     55.0 47.60 11.43                              0.0      0.0    288.6                        40.7    93.7    0.0
1997     52.8 48.20 12.03                              0.0      0.0    417.9                        16.4    37.8   0.0
1998     50.8 48.80 12.63                              0.0      0.0    489.8                        17.6    40.5    0.0
1999     48.8 49.40 13.23                              0.0      0.0    587.7                        18.8    43.3    0.0
2000      46.8 50.02 13.85                              0.0      0.0    684.3                       20.1    46.3
2001      45.8 52.02 15.85                             33.4    76.9    666.1                        21.5    49.5
2002      47.9 54.60 18.43                             73.2    168.6    613.2                       23.0    53.0
2003      50.0 56.30 20.13                            116.1    267.4    621.0                       24.6    56.7
2004      52.3 58.40 22.23                            160.6   369.9   606.0                         26.4    60.8
2005      54.6 60.50 24.33                            208.3   479.7    594.2                        28.8    66.3
2006     57.1 62.22 26.05                             222.7   512.9    508.0                        30.2    69.5
2007      59.6 63.99 27.82                            233.8   538.4    392.5                        32.3    74.4
2008      62.3 65.81 29.64                            244.9   564.0    273.6                        34.4    79.2
2009      65.1 67.68 31.51                            256.1    589.8    151.5                       68.7   158.2
2010      68.1 69.60 33.43                            265.6   611.7    26.1                         67.8   156.1
2011     71.1 70.00 33.83                             217.9   501.8       0.0                       70.0   161.2
2012      74.3 70.00 33.83                            167.0   384.6                                 74.7   172.0
2013      77.7 70.00 33.83                            112.9   260.0                                 79.0   181.9
2014      81.2 70.00 33.83                             57.3    132.0                                80.7   185.8
2015      84.8 70.00 33.83                              0.0      0.0                                87.3   201.0
Total                    1,297.4  1,968.  2,572.  3,801.0  8,753.7  10,990.  84.8  195.2  90.9  1,290.7  2,972.0  575.5
Average growth,
% p.a.
1993-2015 3.8  3.6
SARIPCR (1994 prices)                        30.7                      25.5              -53.4                   -80.6



-38 -                         ANNEX2
Table 2.2b: ZHENGZHOU-WuHAN LiNE: QUANTrrY OF MAJOR WORIS
(Y million)
SAR           PCR         Change
Unit        (Plan)       (Actual)       in %
Earthwork                 mln m3          1.67          2.40       +43.7
Masonries                 min m3          0.21          0.28       +33.3
Bridges and culverts       meter         3,035         3,996       +31.7
Land                        mu           1,586          1,821      +14.8
Rails laid                  km           80.80         89.20       +10.4
Turnout laid                set         170.00        225.00       +32.4
Ballast laid              min m3          0.25          0.37       +48.0
Buildings                 miln m2         0.20          0.23       + 15.0



Table 2.3: ZHENGZHOU-WUHAN LINE: INVESTMENT iN COAL MINNG
(Y million, 1994 prices)
1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997  1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Ecn. coal mine dev. cost (Y/ttyr.):    Distribution by years:
1992 /a            500.0       1st. 2nd. 3rd. 4th.  5th
1994 Lb            653.0 326.5 20%  20%  20%  20%  20%      1/2 yr.
Annual Traffic (million tons)  36.17 36.17 36.17 36.17 36.17 36.27 41.50 47.00 47.60 48.20 48.80 49.40 50.02 52.0254.60 56.30 58.40 60.50 62.22 63.99 65.81 67.68 69.60
Incremental Traffic (million tons)   0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.10 5.23 5.50 0.60 0.60  0.60 0.60 0.62 2.00 2.58 1.70 2.10 2.10 1.72 1.77 1.82 1.87 1.92
Mining Investment (Y mln)    16.3  3.3  3.3  3.3  3.3  3.3
1,707.6    341.5 341.5 341.5 341.5 341.5
1,795.8          359.2 359.2 359.2 359.2 359.2
195.9                39.2 39.2 39.2 39.2 39.2
195.9                      39.2 39.2 39.2 39.2 39.2
195.9                           39.2 39.2 39.2 39.2 39.2
195.9                                39.2 39.2 39.2 39.2  39.2
202.4                                      40.5 40.5 40.5  40.5 40.5
653.0                                          130.6 130.6 130.6 130.6 130.6
842.4                                                168.5 168.5 168.5 168.5 168.5
555.1                                                      111.0 111.0 111.0 111.0111.0
685.7                                                           137.1 137.1 137.1137.1 137.1
685.7                                                                137.1 137.1137.1 137.1 137.1
561.6                                                                      112.3112.3 112.3 112.3 112.3
577.9                                                                          115.6 115.6 115.6 115.6 115.6
594.2                                                                               118.8 118.8 118.8 118.8 118.8
610.6                                                                                     122.1 122.1 122.1 122.1 122.1
626.9                                                                                          125.4 125.4 125.4 125.4 125.4
130.6                                                                                                26.1 26.1 26.1 26.1 26.1
0.0                                                                                                       0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0
Total (million Yuan)   3.3 344.8 703.9 743.1 782.3 818.2 515.9 197.2 288.6 417.9 489.8 587.7 684.3 666.1613.2 621.0 606.0 594.2 508.0 392.5 273.6 151.5 26.1
/a Railway 6, Vol. 2, Febnuruy 1993. Working Paper 22, p. 4.
/b Railway 7, Vol. 2, December 1994, Working Paper 24, p. 3.



-40 -                                      ANNEX 2
Table 2.4: ZHENGZHOU-WUHAN LNE: ACTUAL FREIGHT TRAFFiC (1985-93)
(Million tons)
Zhengzhou-bei  Zhengzhou  Mengmiao  Luohe    Xinyang   Guangshui Jiang'an    Mengmiao
to          to         to        to        to         to        to           to
Zhengzhou    Mengmiao    Luohe   Xinyang   Guangshui   Jiang'an  Wuchang   Pingdingshan
1985    Up          15.70        22.97      23.44     23.14     21.60      21.02     23.65        15.30
Down           34.66        37.69      49.94    45.62      42.23      42.02     40.83        3.22
Coal          20.12        21.05      32.24    29.42      27.02      26.78     22.81       13.64
1986    Up          28.21        25.62      24.60     23.94     22.13       21.52    25.32        15.53
Down           37.83       41.09       52.41    47.91      44.68      44.37     42.46        2.83
Coal         20.25        21.79       32.08    29.19      26.98      26.67     22.50       12.94
1987    Up          29.60        26.55      25.92     25.20     23.57       22.89    23.98        14.99
Down           41.87        45.13      56.76    52.65      49.21      48.89     42.98        2.52
Coal         21.91        22.93       33.80    31.47      29.18      28.78     23.53       13.30
1988    Up          30.41        27.23      26.65     26.01     24.30       23.58    26.31        14.37
Down           44.90        48.09      59.86    55.55      52.02      51.28     47.62        1.70
Coal         21.83        23.03       34.39    31.07      29.36      28.99     24.48       13.38
1989    Up          33.12        29.69      28.76    28.72      27.12       26.50    29.57        14.62
Down           46.46        50.15      62.23    57.67      53.74      53.50     50.07        1.68
Coal         22.79         34.25      36.01    33.20      30.15      29.85     25.38       13.60
1990    Up          32.15        28.74      27.86    27.61      26.12       25.76    29.36        14.40
Down           47.86        51.77      63.22    59.62      56.44      56.10     53.50        1.80
Coal         23.59        25.24       36.22    34.03      31.58      31.25     26.98       13.49
1991    Up          34.84        30.76      29.59     29.25     27.81       27.37    31.20        14.49
Down           46.84        50.69      62.35    59.48      56.97      56.69     54.70        1.48
Coal         21.80        22.85       33.81    32.02      30.07      29.16     25.61       13.35
1992    Up          35.32        31.80      30.63     30.37     28.90       28.66    32.69        14.49
Down           54.93        55.03      67.29    64.65      62.23      61.95     59.35        3.36
Coal         22.49        24.81       36.17    34.66      32.85      32.59     27.48       17.85
1993    Up          35.60        31.90      31.00     31.00     29.90       29.50    33.00        15.20
Down           51.60        56.50      68.00    56.10      63.50      63.50     63.50        3.20
Coal          21.05       23.99       36.27    34.55      32.92      32.68     27.54       14.72
Source: Ministry of Railways.



-41-                                       ANNEX 2
Table 2.5: ZHENGZHOU-WUHAN LINE: REEVALUATED ECONOMIC RATE
OF REruRN (REER) AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
(Y million, 1994 prices)
Best estimate                                 Sensitivity Analysis
Costs                     Benefits    Net      Project
Project    Mine     110 kV  Rolling           (value    cash      costs    Mine develovment costs
Year       costs  development  line   stock    Total    added)    flow      (+20%)   (+20%)    (-20%)
1986         76.5       0.0      0.0     0.0      76.5              (76.5)    (91.8)    (76.5)    (76.5)
1987        181.2       0.0      0.0     0.0    181.2              (181.2)   (217.4)   (181.2)   (181.2)
1988        246.4       3.3      0.0     0.0    249.7              (249.7)   (298.9)   (250.3)   (249.0)
1989        410.4     344.8      0.0     0.0    755.2              (755.2)   (837.3)   (824.1)   (686.2)
1990        564.3     703.9      0.0     0.0   1,268.2           (1,268.0)  (1,381.0) (1,409.0)  (1,127.0)
1991        611.6     743.1      0.0     0.0   1,354.7           (1.355.0)  (1,477.0) (1,503.0)  (1,206.0)
1992        230.4     743.1    36.8   439.5   1,449.9            (1,450.0)  (1,496.0)  (1,598.0)  (1,301.0)
1993         82.9     818.2    54.1      0.0    955.2      6.6    (948.7)   (965.2) (1,112.0)   (785.0)
1994        168.6     515.9              0.0    684.5   698.2        13.7     (20.0)    (89.4)    116.9
1995                  197.2              0.0    197.2  1,418.7   1,221.5   1,221.5   1,182.1    1,260.9
1996                  288.6              0.0    288.6  1,497.3   1,208.7   1,208.7   1,150.9   1,266.4
1997                  417.9              0.0    417.9  1,575.9   1,158.0   1,158.0   1,074.4   1,241.6
1998                  489.8              0.0    489.8  1,654.5   1,164.8   1,164.8   1,066.8   1,262.7
1999                  587.7              0.0    587.7  1,733.1   1,145.4   1,145.4   1,027.9   1,262.9
2000                  684.3                      684.3  1,814.4   1,130.1    1,130.1    993.2   1,266.9
2001                  666.1                      666.1  2,076.4   1,410.3   1,410.3   1,277.1    1,543.6
2002                  613.2                      613.2  2,414.3   1,801.1   1,801.1   1,678.5   1,923.8
2003                  621.0                      621.0  2,637.0   2,016.0   2,016.0   1,891.8   2,140.2
2004                  606.0                      606.0  2,912.1   2,306.1   2,306.1   2,184.9   2,427.3
2005                  594.2                      594.2 3,1877.2   2,593.0   2,593.0  2,474.1    2,711.8
2006                  508.0                      508.0  3,412.5   2,904.5   2,904.5   2,802.9   3,006.1
2007                  392.5                      392.5  3,644.4   3,251.9   3,251.9   3,173.3   3,330.4
2008                  273.6                      273.6  3,882.8   3,609.2   3,609.2   3,554.5   3,663.9
2009                   151.5                            4,127.8   4,127.8   4,127.8   4,097.5   4,158.1
2010                   26.1                             4,379.3   4,379.3   4,379.3   4,374.1   4,384.5
2011                                                    4,431.7   4,431.7   4,431.7   4,431.7   4,431.7
2012                                                    4,431.7   4,431.7   4,431.7   4,431.7   4,431.7
2013                                                    4,431.7   4,431.7   4,431.7  4,431.7   4,431.7
2014                                                    4,431.7   4,431.7   4,431.7  4,431.7   4,431.7
2015                                                    4,431.7   4,431.7   4,431.7  4,431.7   4,431.7
Total   2.572.3  10,990.0    90.9   439.5  13,915.0
RERR (%)                                                             16        15        15        18
NPV (12%)                                                         2,000      1,704    1,403     2,596



- 42 -                         ANNEX 3
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF THE
CHANGCHUN PASSENGER COACH FACTORY
MODERNIZATION
Introduction
1.          As of the mid-1980s, the Changchun Passenger Coach Factory produced
nearly three-fifths of China's railway coaches. Given the pressing need for more and
better-quality passenger rolling stock, this facility was selected as the most promising
location for upgrading and expansion.
2.          At the time of appraisal, the modernization was to occur in two distinct and
separate phases. The primary objective of the first phase was to designate a suitable
foreign partner for transfers of design and technology. Along with the appropriate local
personnel, the partner also was to evolve recommendations for the second phase during
which most of the production of the new design would take place. (Included in the first
phase was a small amount of welding and surface treatment machinery and machine tools
to be used for any design that was likely to be selected for second-phase production.)
3.          The objectives of the first phase were attained as planned.  The
recommended new coach, designed with the assistance of British Rail Engineering Limited
(BREL), was approved at all levels in China. Rather than wait for Bank evaluation and
appraisal of a follow-on effort, the Chinese elected to proceed without additional Bank
funding.
4.          In light of these developments, the two phases of this component as
originally contemplated are indistinguishable. From the standpoint of economic evaluation,
therefore, it is not possible to isolate the costs associated with the "first phase" from the
total project outlays. Thus, the analysis, which follows, embraces the costs and benefits
of the overall Changchun Passenger Coach Factory modernization effort. As such, though,
it is important to recognize that the results reported here are not comparable to the SAR
evaluation, which necessarily focused only on the first phase.
Project Capital Costs
5.          The factors developed to convert financial prices into shadow prices are
identified in Table 3.1 Foreign costs have been converted to Yuan by using the shadow
exchange rate of 8.7 Yuan per US dollar. The resulting overall conversion factor for all
items is 0.98. When restated at 1994 price levels, the economic project costs are 32.5



- 43 -                         ANNEX3
percent higher than the shadow costs. This is shown for the total project in Table 3.1 and
on a year-by-year basis in Table 3.3.
Project Benefits
6.          Because the new coach is far more durable than its predecessor, it is able
to accumulate more time in revenue service, thereby facilitating an incremental amount of
railway passenger traffic volume. In addition, the newer rolling stock will require fewer
and less costly major overhauls than the coach it replaces.  Each of these factors
contributes to two discreet benefit streams, which are considered in turn.
(a)   Value-Added to the Economy
7.          Constructed of higher-quality and longer-lasting materials, the passenger
equipment now being produced at the Changchun factory requires far less time for routine
maintenance compared with prior models. Older coaches on average spent 125 days per
year out of service for maintenance or 2.5 times as long as the 50 days for the new wagon.
This means that the newer coach is in operating service 315 days per year compared with
only 240 days for the older version. Assuming that both coaches account for 56,000
passenger-kilometers (pkm) per day (12.5 hours per day, 35 km per hour, and 128
passengers per coach), the additional 75 days of inservice time enables the railway to
achieve about 4.2 million incremental pkm for each coach annually.
8.          As a consequence of this project, annual production at the Changchun
factory amounts to 1,040 coaches-or 240 more than the 800 units manufactured prior to
modernization. At 4.2 million pkm per additional coach, the project results in just over
1 billion more pkm of railway capacity each year.
9.          Railway passenger traffic has experienced rapid expansion in China. As of
1993 (the most recent year for which data are available), the volume of intercity railway
passengers approximated 1.0 billion persons per year-about 200 million more than in
1980. Over the same time period, the average trip distance doubled, from 186 km in 1980
to 372 km in 1993. In combination, these elements have produced a 2.5-fold increase in
railway pkm. Even allowing for the concurrent rise of the nonrailway modes, the volume
of passenger traffic by railway in 1993 was substantial, amounting to almost 345 billion
pkrn.
10.         This long-term increase in personal rail travel (as gauged by railway pkm)
has been reflected by similar growth in the economy [as measured by gains in the real
gross domestic product (GDP)]. Between 1980 and 1993, the correlation in the behavior
of these two indices is quite strong: a regression analysis of these two values for this
period yields an R-squared of 0.85. Even if this relationship should deteriorate somewhat
due to the enhanced roles of the nonrailway modes, the implication is that growth in rail
passenger travel will continue to move in concert with real national economic output,
especially in the near term.



-44 -                          ANNEX 3
11.         Under these conditions, incremental growth in the output of the country's
goods and services constitutes the major economic benefit of this project. Table 3.2
reports the time series for real GDP and railway pkm used in this analysis. The data from
1980 to 1993 are actual, while those from 1994 onward are estimates. In the "without
project" scenario, GDP is projected to increase at an average annual rate of 7.0 percent
over the period 1994-2000 and at an average annual rate of 4.0 percent for the years 2001-
2015. The values for railway pkm in the "without project" case are predicated on this
GDP forecast utilizing the regression relationship for the 1980-93 period noted in the prior
paragraph. To develop a "with project" projection, the incremental pkm attributable to the
additional output of the Changchun factory are added to the "without project" pkm on an
annual basis from 1994 through 2003 (it is assumed, conservatively, that all of the older
model coaches will have been replaced by this latter year). Using these "with project"
pkm and the same regression relationship established earlier, a projection of "with project"
real GDP is derived.
12.         The differential pattern of real GDP growth in the "without project" and
"with project" scenarios thus comprises the incremental real GDP benefits attributable to
the project. These values are detailed in Table 3.2 and replicated in Table 3.3.
(b)   Major Overhaul Savings
13.         An additional benefit is associated with the major overhaul savings made
possible by the lower maintenance costs and longer operating cycles of the newer
equipment. Previously, the typical passenger coach required a major overhaul every 4
years, but with the newer model, this period has been extended to 10 years. With unit
maintenance costs of Y 180,000 for the new coach (compared to Y 200,000 for the
predecessor model), the average annual overhaul outlay amounts to Y 18,000 over 10 years
(Y 180,000/10) or 64 percent less than the comparable Y 50,000 figure (Y 500,000/10)
for the older coach. With production of the new coach equal to 1,040 units per year
contrasted with 800 coaches annually for the prior model, the per-year incremental savings
benefit as shown in Table 3.3 amounts to Y 21.28 million.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
14.         Based on the inputs stated above and as shown in Table 3.3, the net present
value (at 12 percent) for the overall Changchun Passenger Coach Factory modernization
project is Y 180.2 million and the economic rate of return is 25 percent.
15.         Three alternative scenarios are developed in the sensitivity analysis. In the
first two cases, the two benefit streams are reduced by half, respectively. The effect of
these assumptions are to lower the ERR to between 20 and 23 percent  For the third
scenario, both benefit streams are reduced by half simultaneously. Here, the ERR is equal
to 18 percent.



- 45 -                                    ANNEX 3
Table 3.1: CHANGCHUN PASSENGER COACH FACTORY:
PRICE CONVERSION FACTORS
(Y million)
Conver-
sion     Financial - Current       Shadow priced           Economic - 1994
factor   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
Land                   0.80      0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00
Labor:
Unskilled             0.54      0.43   0.00     0.43    0.23   0.00     0.23    0.30   0.00     0.30
Semi skilled/Technician    0.80  0.72   0.00    0.72    0.58   0.00     0.58    0.77   0.00     0.77
Supervisor            2.00      0.58   0.00     0.58    1.16  0.00      1.16    1.54   0.00     1.54
Materials:
Steel                 1.00      0.93   0.00     0.93    0.93   0.00     0.93     1.23   0.00    1.23
Timber                1.00      0.21   0.00     0.21    0.21   0.00     0.21    0.28   0.00     0.28
Cement                1.00      0.42   0.00     0.42    0.42   0.00     0.42    0.56   0.00     0.56
Sand                  0.80      0.03   0.00     0.03    0.02   0.00     0.02    0.03   0.00     0.03
Stone                 0.80      0.42   0.00     0.42    0.34   0.00     0.34    0.45   0.00     0.45
Bitumen               1.00      0.01   0.00     0.01    0.01   0.00     0.01    0.01   0.00     0.01
Others                0.80      0.13   0.00     0.13    0.10   0.00     0.10    0.13   0.00     0.13
Fuel:
Diesel                1.00      0.02   0.00     0.02    0.02   0.00     0.02    0.03   0.00     0.03
Gasoline              1.00      0.01   0.00     0.01    0.01   0.00     0.01    0.01   0.00     0.01
Heavy oil             1.00      0.01   0.00     0.01    0.01   0.00     0.01    0.01   0.00     0.01
Others                1.00      0.01   0.00     0.01    0.01   0.00     0.01    0.01   0.00     0.01
Electricity            2.00      0.30   0.00     0.30    0.60   0.00     0.60    0.80   0.00     0.80
Water                   1.00     0.14   0.00     0.14    0.14   0.00     0.14    0.19   0.00     0.19
Construction           0.80      0.22   0.00     0.22    0.18   0.00     0.18    0.24   0.00     0.24
Mechanical equipment    1.00     14.97  44.51    59.48    14.97  44.51    59.48    19.84  58.99    78.83
Others                 0.80      9.51   0.00     9.51    7.61   0.00     7.61    10.08   0.00    10.08
Total                        29.07  44.51    73.58   27.55  44.51    72.06   36.51  58.99    95.50
Overall conversion factor                                                0.98



-46 -                       ANNEX 3
Table 3.2: RAILWAY PASSENGER TRAFc AND REAL DomESIc PRODUCT,
ACTUAL (1980-93) AND PROJECTED (1994-2015)
Railway Passenger Traffic (bln pkm)       GDP (Y billion)
Without     With       Incre-    Without     With       Incre-
Year   project     project     mental    project    project     mental
1980     133.4      133.4                  974.4     974.4
1981     142.4      142.4                1,022.1    1,022.1
1982     152.2      152.2                1,113.6    1,113.6
1983     172.1      172.1                1,226.3    1,226.3
1984     199.2      199.2                1,404.7    1,404.7
1985     237.1      237.1                1,572.6    1,572.6
1986     254.5      254.5                1,700.6    1,700.6
1987     280.1      280.1                1,881.4    1,881.4
1988     321.1      321.1                2,081.6    2,081.6
1989     299.0      299.0                2,173.5    2,173.5
1990     257.1      257.1                2,260.7    2,260.7
1991     279.5      279.5                2,442.2    2,442.2
1992     311.7      311.7                2,766.8    2,766.8
1993     344.9      344.9                3,138.0    3,138.0
1994     403.6      404.6       1.0      3,357.7    3,367.3      9.6
1995     428.3      430.3       2.0      3,592.7    3,611.9     19.2
1996     454.7      457.7       3.0      3,844.2    3,873.0     28.8
1997     482.9      486.9       4.0      4,113.3    4,151.7     38.4
1998     513.1      518.2       5.0      4,401.2    4,449.2     48.0
1999     545.5      551.5       6.1      4,709.3    4,766.9     57.6
2000     580.1      587.1       7.1      5,038.9    5,106.2     67.2
2001     601.2      609.3       8.1      5,240.5    5,317.3     76.8
2002     623.2      632.3       9.1      5,450.1    5,536.5      86.4
2003     646.1      656.2      10.1      5,668.1    5,764.2     96.0
2004     669.9      680.0      10.1      5,894.8    5,990.9     96.0
2005     694.7      704.7       10.1     6,130.6    6,226.7     96.0
2006     720.4      730.5       10.1     6,375.9    6,471.9      96.0
2007     747.2      757.3      10.1      6,630.9    6,726.9      96.0
2008     775.0      785.1       10.1     6,896.1    6,992.2     96.0
2009     804.0      814.0       10.1     7,172.0    7,268.0     96.0
2010     834.1      844.2      10.1      7,458.9    7,554.9     96.0
2011     865.4      875.5      10.1      7,757.2    7,853.3     96.0
2012     898.0      908.0       10.1     8,067.5    8,163.5     96.0
2013     931.8      941.9       10.1     8,390.2    8,486.2     96.0
2014     967.1      977.1       10.1     8,725.8    8,821.8      96.0
2015    1,003.7    1,013.8      10.1     9,074.9    9,170.9     96.0



-47 -                              ANNEX 3
Table 3.3: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (EER) AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS:
CHANGCHUN PASSENGER COACH FACTORY
(Y million, 1994 prices)
Sensitivity analysis
Base case                Case I        Case 2     Case 3
Benefits         Net   Incremental  Maintenance    Total
Capital  Incremental Maintenance   cash    GDP         savings    benefits
Year        cost       GDP        saving    flow      (-50%)      (-50%)     (-50%)
1986        10.1                           (10.10)   (10.1)       (10.1)     (10.1)
1987        15.9                           (15.90)   (15.9)       (15.9)     (15.9)
1988        21.7                           (21.70)   (21.7)       (21.7)     (21.7)
1989        16.1                           (16.10)   (16.1)       (16.1)     (16.1)
1990        10.0                           (10.00)   (10.0)       (10.0)     (10.0)
1991         9.7                            (9.70)    (9.7)        (9.7)      (9.7)
1992        10.0                           (10.00)   (10.0)       (10.0)     (10.0)
1993         2.0                            (2.00)    (2.0)        (2.0)      (2.0)
1994         0.0        9.6       21.28     30.88      26.1        20.3       15.5
1995         0.0       19.2       21.28     40.49      30.9        29.9       20.3
1996         0.0       28.8       21.28     50.09      35.7        39.5       25.1
1997         0.0       38.4       21.28     59.69      40.5        49.1       29.9
1998        0.0        48.0       21.28     69.30     45.3         58.7       34.7
1999         0.0       57.6       21.28     78.90      50.1        68.3       39.5
2000         0.0       67.2       21.28      88.50     54.9        77.9       44.2
2001         0.0       76.8       21.28      98.11     59.7        87.5       49.0
2002         0.0       86.4       21.28     107.71     64.5        97.1       53.8
2003         0.0       96.0       21.28     117.31     69.3       106.7       58.6
2004         0.0       96.0       21.28     117.31     69.3       106.7       58.6
2005         0.0       96.0       21.28     117.31     69.3       106.7       58.6
2006         0.0       96.0       21.28     117.31     69.3       106.7       58.6
2007         0.0       96.0       21.28     117.31     69.3       106.7       58.6
2008         0.0       96.0       21.28     I17.31     69.3       106.7       58.6
2009         0.0       96.0       21.28     117.31     69.3       106.7       58.6
2010         0.0       96.0       21.28     117.31     69.3       106.7       58.6
2011         0.0       96.0       21.28     117.31     69.3       106.7       58.6
2012         0.0       96.0       21.28     117.31     69.3       106.7       58.6
2013         0.0       96.0       21.28     117.31     69.3       106.7       58.6
2014         0.0       96.0       21.28     117.31     69.3       106.7       58.6
2015         0.0       96.0       21.28     117.31     69.3       106.7       58.6
Total    95.5
ERR (%)                                      25        20          23         18
NPV (12%)                                   180.2      91.4       147.5       58.5



ANNEX 4
- 48 -
P~Sf-APPRAISAL OF DOUBLE-TRACK ELECTRIFICATION
PROJECT BETWEEN ZHENGZHOU AND WUCHANG WITH
THE SECOND LOAN FROM THE WORLD BANK
1. Features of the Project
1.1 Name of the Project
Double-track electrification project between Zhengzhou
and Wuchang
1.2 Loan Code for the Project
2540CH4
1.3 Dates Related to the Loan
1.3.1 Date of negotiation on agreement of the loan
April 8, 1985
1.3.2 Date of approval by the executive board of
directors of the World Bank
May 14, 1985
1.3.3 Date of signature by the two sides
August 26, 1985
1.3.4 Date of the agreement of the loan going into effect
October 22, 1985
1.3.5 Dead line for drawing money
June 30, 1992, and postponed to June 30, 1994
2. Basic Situation of the Project
2.1 Goal and Significance
The existing double-track railway line of
Zhengzhou-Wuchang section, located in the south of Henan
province and the north of Hubei province, is the middle
section of Beijing-Guangzhou Railway and has a total length
of 547 kilometers. It extends up north to Beijing, and down
south to Guangzhou. It intersects China's main line from



- 49 -
east to west - the Longhai Railway at Zhengzhou, joins
Hankou-Danjiang Railway in the south, and links up water
transport of the Yangtze River. It is an artery running
through the south and north of China and connecting the
northeast, the north and middle west of China, and is a
strategic passage of transporting coal of the north to the
south, undertaking arduous passenger and freight transport
tasks.
The section between Xinyang and Guangshui is the most
difficult section, with the ruling grade of 12.5% and
maximum down grade of 17.7% . It is difficult for steam or
diesel locomotives to run upgrade in this section, and when
running down grade, locomotives can hardly run at limited
speed required for safety operation. Therefore, the
Xinyang-Guangshui section is the controlling section of the
whole line. The carrying capacity of that section used to be
37 million tons. However, the carrying capacity of down
direction has been over-saturated since 1984, and has become
the "bottle neck" on Beijing-Guangzhou Railway. Thus, the
section must be upgraded technically, in order to meet the
requirement of future passenger and freight traffic. Because
of the long period required by easing the grade, large
investment, and large areas of farmland to be used, it is
decided to do technical upgrading in stations and yards and
carry out electrification. In this way, not only can the
whole existing track be used so that investment can be saved
and construction speed will be fast, but also can the
operation problems of Xinyang-Guangshui section be solved.
2.2 Main Technical Specifications
2.2.1 Grade of railway: I-grade main line
2.2.2 Number of mainline: double-track
2.2.3 Ruling grade: 6% (single locomotive)
12.5% (double locomotive)
2.2.4 Minimum radius of curve: 600m
2.2.5 Effective length of receiving-departure track:
850m, 1050m
2.2.6 Type of locomotive: electric
2.2.7 Model of locomotive: SS4 (freight), SS3 (passenger)
2.2.8 Tonnage rating of locomotive: 5000t (freight)
lOOOt (passenger)



- 50 -
2.2.9 Type of block: automatic block
2.2.10 Headway: signal arrangement 6 minutes
computation capacity 7 minutes
2.3 Designed Traffic Volume
The designed traffic volumes after revision in 1987 are
listed in the following table.
------------------------------------------------------------
Section       Freight Traffic Volume          Passenger Train
up           down           Pairs ( pairs/day)
------------------------------------------------------------
Zhengzhqu-
Xinzheng          2630         5050                   36
------------------------------------------------------------
Xinzheng-
Luohe             2290         5400                   36
------------------------------------------------------------
Luohe-
Xinyang           2220         6150                   30
------------------------------------------------------------
Xinyang-
Guangshui         2030         5630                   26
Guangshui-
Jiang'an West   1990           5620                   32
------------------------------------------------------------
2.4 Main Items of the Project ( including Zhengzhou-Wuchang,
and Mengmiao-Pingdingshan east)
2.4.1 Electrification project and related signalling and
communications project
2.4.2 Technical upgrading and expansion projects of
Zhengzhou Terminal, Xinyang Marshalling Yard, Jiang'an West
Marshalling Yard, and Wuchang South Marshalling Yard.
2.4.3 construction project of New Hankou Passenger Station.
2.5 Main Engineering Volume
2.5.1 Electrification project
a. Traction sub-station: 8
b. District: 8



- 51 -
c. Open-close sub-station: 12
d. AT sub-station: 10
e. Electric locomotive depot: 2
f. Power supply station: 1
g. Contact wire gang: 27
2.5.2 Reconstruction and expansion project of Xinyang,
Jiang'an West and Wuchang South Marshalling yards, and
construction project of New Hankou Passenger Station.
a. Earthwork and stonework of subgrade: 2.4 million m3
b. One extra large bridge: 1221m
c. 14 medium-sized and small bridges: 391m
d. 103 culverts: 2384m
e. Rail laid: 89.2km
f. Turnouts laid: 225
g. Ballast paved: 366000m3
h. Industrial and residential buildings: 240000m2
2.5.3 Signalling and Communications Upgrading Project
a. Communications
No.  Name of Project              Unit   Amount   Remarks
------------------------------------------------------------
1  8-core-single-model optical
cable                          km      579.01
2----------lon-distance---------cable-------km---583.77-----
2  14x4x0.8 long-distance cable   km       583.77
3  14x4xO.9 long-distance cable   km       75.5
------------------------------------------------------------
4  14OMbit/s photoelectric digi-
tal transmission equipment     system   1
5-------b---t-------photoelectric--------------d---git------
5  8Mbit/s photoelectric digital



- 52 -
transmission equipment                 system    1
------------------------------------------------------------
6   2Mbit/s cable digital trans-           system   4        Luohe-
mission equipment                                        Pingdong
----------------------------------------------------------__
7   2Mbit/s cable digital trans-           system   5         Zhengzhou
mission equipment                                        area
------------------------------------------------------------
8   2Mbit/s cable digital trans-           system   10       Wuhan
mission equipment                                        area
------------------------------------------------------------
9   program-controlled digital             line       6100
exchange
------------------------------------------------------------
10  signal-command change-over             system    1
equipment
------------------------------------------------------------
11                                         system    1
multiplexer (including DCE)
12  air pressure monitoring                system    1
equipment
------------------------------------------------------------
13  measuring meter                        set        3      Zhengzhou
Xinyang
Wuchang
b. Signalling
(1) Block
986 sets of UM71 equipment
575 point-type equipment
215 TVM300 cab signal
2000 kilometers of outdoor cable
890 ground proceed signals
120 sectional power supply panel
(2) Microcomputer interlocking
One main cabinet of interlocking
One multichannel transmission equipment
One set of technical staff terminal for maintenance
1.5 kilometers of data transmission cable
5 outdoor equipment boxes
8 microcomputer interlocking module frames at throat
(3) Centralized traffic control



- 53 -
Traffic control center are established one each in
Zhengzhou and Wuhan
8 control sections
93 stations are centralized controlled and supervised
(76 foreign-financed, 17 local-financed).
Among them, 50 are CTC controlled (44 are divided into 2
bureau-control areas, 5 are not specified, and one is
divided into 4 bureau-controlled areas); 43 are dispatch
supervised stations.
3. Strategic Decision of the Project
3.1. Process
3.1.1 In order to raise the traffic  capacity  of
Zhengzhou-Wuhan section on Beijing-Guangzhou Railway and
ensure smooth traffic of the Beijing-Guangzhou main line, in
September, 1978, the Ministry of Railways sent to the State
Planning Committee the "Report on Terms of Reference of the
Electrification Project of Zhengzhou-Wuhan section of
Beijing-Guangzhou Railway with the number of (78)TJZ1499.
3.1.2 In December, 1982, the State Planning Committee sent
to the State Council for approval the "Examination Report on
Terms of Reference of the Electrification Project of
Zhengzhou-Wuchang and Hengyang-Guangzhou sections of
Beijing-Guangzhou Railway" with the number of JJ(1982)1103.
3.1.3 In January, 1983, the State Planning Committee sent
back to the Ministry of Railways the "Official Reply to the
Terms of Reference of the Electrification Project of
Zhengzhou-Wuchang and Hengyang-Guangzhou sections on
Beijing-Guangzhou Railway' with the number of JJ(1983)14,
which had been approved by the State Council, and required
the Ministry of Railways to carry out according to the
document.
3.1.4 In 1983, the Ministry of Railways transmitted to
related construction and designing units the notice of the
"Official Reply to the Terms of Reference of the
Electrification Project of Zhengzhou-Wuchang and
Hengyang-Guangzhou sections on Beijing-Guangzhou Railway"
with the number of (83)TJZ654.
According to the above reports, application and



- 54 -
approval, the project is officially listed among the state
construction projects.
3.2 Appraisal
The Beijing-Guangzhou Railway is a main transport
lifeline running through the south and the north of China,
and also one of the six busy main lines along the coast. The
Zhengzhou-Wuhan section, located in the central plains, is a
section of busy passenger and freight traffic volume on the
Beijing-Guangzhou Railway, and is the key passage of
transporting coal of the north to the south. Apart from
receiving large amount of coal from places further than
Zhengzhou, the section has coal mines of Pingdingshan,
Mixian and Yuxian in west Henan province along it. The
section used to have a transport capacity of only 37 million
tons, but in 1985 the transport capacity reached 45.6
million tons, which made the carrying capacity
over-saturated. If electrification is not carried out, it
will be very difficult to meet the requirement of the
ever-increasing traffic volume.
After electrification of Zhengzhou-Wuchang section, the
transport capacity can reach 78 million tons. After the
section was open to traffic after electrification in 1992,
the freight traffic volume has reached 64.6 million tons,
and 27 pairs of passenger trains are run each day. The
tonnage rating of locomotives has been raised from 3700t
before electrification to the current 5000t of SSd electric
locomotive. It is predicted that the freight traffic volume
will reach 74.7 million tons in the year of 2000, and the
transport task can still be completed. Real operation proved
that the electrification upgrading of railway in this
section can greatly raise transport capacity and meet the
needs of ever-increasing traffic volume. Therefore, the
strategic decision is completely correct.
3.3 Major Changes in the Design
According to the comments of the Appraisal Committee of
the Ministry of Railways, the original design was changed in
the following aspects:
3.3.1 In order to meet the needs of "V"-type maintenance
window on busy double-track electrified railway, equipment
fitted to opposite direction running of trains are added to
electrification and signalling and communication equipment.



- 55 -
3.3.2 In the Jiang'an West Marshalling Yard, the
semi-automatic humps of the original design were changed
into automatic humps. The turnout at the tail of marshalling
yard was changed from electric centralized control to
microcomputer centralized control. The four tracks of the
receiving yard was extended to 1050m. One track was added to
the shunting yard. Two tracks were added to down direction
departure yard. The Huangpu Cross-over with a span of 36m
(8+10+10+8m) was added.
In Wuchang South Marshalling Yard, the mechanical hump
of the original design was changed into automatic hump, and
the turnout at the tail of the marshalling yard was changed
from the original electric centralized control to
microcomputer centralized control.
3.3.3 Hankou Passenger Station is moved out of the site, and
a new one is going to be built outside Jiang'an West
Station.
3.3.4 Add an infrared HB detection system.
3.3.5 In the original design, electronic shift frequency
automatic block and shift frequency cab signal are applied
to the Zhengzhou-Wuchang double-track section, and except
the Zhumadian-Guangshui section which uses centralized shift
frequency, other sections all use decentralized shift
frequency. The total investment was 1.933 million yuan. Then
the Ministry of Railways changed the design into importing
the French 4-aspect, non-insulation track circuit in
electrified sections, and cab signals with speed
supervision. The estimated investment is 181.88 million
yuan.
3.3.6 The effective length of tracks in stations is extended
to 1050m. In the preliminary design, it was planned to
extend the effective length every one station. Then,
according to the need of operation, all the stations except
18 of them in the Zhengzhou-Wuchang section have their
effective length of tracks extended.
4. Implementation of the Project
4.1 Implementation Organization
4.1.1 Designing institute
Electrification Survey and Design Institute, Electrification
Bureau, MOR



- 56 -
Signalling and Communications Survey and Design Institute,
Electrification Bureau, MOR
Fourth Survey and Design Institute, MOR
Zhengzhou, Xitan and Wuhan Survey and Design Institute,
Zhengzhou Railway Administration
Mid-South Architecture Design Institute
4.2 Builder: Zhengzhou Railway Administration
4.3 Construction Unit:
Electrification Bureau, MOR
Signalling and Communications Engineering Corporation, MOR
Zhengzhou Railway Administration
Second Engineering Bureau, MOR
General Construction Corporation of Wuhan City
4.4 Units in charge of Inviting Tenders and Purchase
China National Technical Import and Export Corporation
China National Machinery Import and Export Corporation
China National Instrument Import and Export Corporation
China Railway Import and Export Corporation



- 57 -
POST APPRAISAL ON ZHENG-WU LINE
2. Purchase on bids
2.1. General descriptions
A total of US$188130 thousand foreign funds has been used in
this project for the purchase of the following materials and
equipment(see table 6).
Table. 6
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Serial   Descriptions                                  Amount                         Percentage
no.                                                  (Thousand  US$)                   (%)
-------------------------------------------------------------------
I            Rails                                   3,915                            2.08
2            Fishplates                              1,503                            0.80
3            Other  steel                          23,781                            12.64
4            Cement                                  4,406                            2.34
------------------------------------------------------------------_
5            Timber                                  9,566                            5.08
------------------------------------------------------------------_
6            Non-ferrous metal                       1,987                             1.06
------------------------------------------------------------------_
Sub-total(material)                  45,158                            24.00
----------------------------------------------------------------__-
7            Communication  cables                   7,825                            4.16
------------------------------------------------------------------_
8            Communication equipment  16,550                                          8.80
9            Signalling  cables                      6,800                            3.60
10           Signalling  equipment                 34,363                            18.27
----------------------------------------------------------------__-
11           Power  cables                           1,283                            0.68
12           Power  equipment                      33,303                            17.71
----------------------------------------------------------------__-
13           Insulators                              1,351                            0.72
------------------------------------------------------------------_
14           Miscellaneous wires                     16,200                             8.61
-----------------------------------------------------------------__
15           Miscellaneous equipment    5,175                                           2.75
------------------------------------------------------------------_
16           Vehicles                                6,408                            3.41
17           Instruments                             2,506                            1.33
18           Design & construction
facilities                            11,208                            5.96
Sub-total (equipment)   142,972                                        76.00
---------------------------------------------------------------__--



- 58 -
Sub-total                   188,130
Reserve funds                    610
Total                       188,740
The materials and equipment listed in the table have been
purchased  through  international   competitive bidding or from the
markets in accordance with the agreements on loans and purchasing
instructions. 30 international bids have been invited in the period
of 1986 to 1992, with 129 manufacturers in 18 countries and regions
won the bids, among them 41 in P.R of China, 23 in USA, 18 in
Japan, 13 in England, 7 in Germany, 7 in France, 6 in Switzerland,
1 in Belgium, 1 in Austria, 1 in Australia, 2 in Sweden, 2 in
Denmark, 1 in Brazil, 2 in Canada, 1 in Argentina, 1 in Italy, 1 in
Taiwan and 1 in Hong Kong. 209 contracts with a total amount of
US$188,130 thousand have been concluded. Of the contract amount,
US$53,190 thousand are signed by Chinese manufacturers, taking
account 28.27X of the total.
2.2 Comparisons between appraisal planning and actual fulfillment
(annually)
The implementation of purchase has delayed due to fundamental
modification of designs, increase of projects and update of
purchasing lists, the last contract of this project was concluded
in January, 1993. See table 7.
Table. 7
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Year 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993
Planning
------------------------------------------------------------------_
Actual
2.3 Contract amount of purchases in the following years are shown
in table 8.
Table. 8                                  Unit: One thousand US$
Year       Contract amount  Contract amount  Percentage
(one year)          (accumulated)       (accu.amount /total)
--------------------------------------------------------__---------
1986       21,047               21,047              11.19
------_---------------------------------------------------------__-
1987        6,434               26,481              14.08
----------------------------------------------------------------__-
1988       37,767               62,428              33.18
----------------------------------------------------------------__-
1889       49,471              113,719              60.45
1990----------15,018-------------128-------737--------68.43----__--
1990       15,018              128,737              68.43



- 59 -
-------------------------------------------------------------------
1991         27,838               156,575                 83.22
---------------------------------------------------------------__--
1992         26,451               183,026                 97.29
---------------------------------------------------------------__--
1993          5,104               188,130                100.00
--------------------------------------------------------------__---
2.4 Coefficient of purchase and payment
The accumulated contract amount and the actual payment in
1986-1994 are shown in table 9.
Table.  9                                         Unit:  One thousand US$
----------------------------------------------------------------__-
Year         Contract  amount    Actual payment    Percentage  (t)
(accumulated)           (accumulated)         (payment/purchase)
1986         21,047                  13,464                  63.97
-------------------------------------------------------------------
1987         26,481                  22,367                  84.46
----------------------------------------------------------------__-
1988         62,428                  33,166                  53.13
1989       113,719                   50,904                  44.76
----------------------------------------------------------------__-
1990        128,737                  96,313                  74.81
1991        156,575                 129,817                  82.91
---------------------------------------------------------------__--
1992       183,026                  151,374                  82.70
---------------------------------------------------------------__--
1993       188,130                  173,414                  92.18
---------------------------------------------------------------__--
1994       188,130                  183,130                 100
-----------------------------------------------------------------__
2.5 Experiences and lessons on purchases and contract negotiations
The purchases of this project have been implemented in
accordance with the agreements of the loan and the instructions of
purchase. Supported by the State Planning Committee, Ministry of
Finance and the World Bank, the task group has been working hard to
implement the purchases and has obtained the following experiences:
1) Organization has been reformed and purchase management
improved
Founded in March, 1987, the Foreign Capital and Technical
Import Office, MOR, under the leadership of deputy minister and
chief engineer, is empowered to carryout the centralized-management
of foreign capital, including project creation and implementation,
purchase on bids and technology import. The implementation
capability has been improved since the centralized management
superseded the dispersed one. The task group, organized for
purchase management, has summed up some experiences in purchase



- 60 -
implementation, such as, international tendering, bidding documents
evaluation and contract negotiation, leading to improvement of
purchase quality.
In the purchase process, a responsibility system combining the
centralized management and management by levels has been set up,
which is organized by the Foreign Capital and Technical Import
Office with the participation of project management departments and
customers. Purchase implementation groups have been built up to
work out bidding documents, to carry out the evaluation of bids,
contract negotiations and project implementations. In the process
of purchase , all of the designing departments, construction teams
and customers have played important role in individual links of the
project.
2) Competition between purchase agencies has been intensified
At the primary stage of implementing this project,  the
International Tendering Division, China National Technical Import
and Export Corporation was the only agency for the purchase, since
1987, the International Tendering divisions of China National
Machinery Import and Export Corporation and China National
Instrument Import and Export Corporation have become its
competitors. Competition between agencies has led to a higher
efficiency and better service.
3) Quality of bidding documents has been upgraded
With a view of upgrading the quality of bidding documents, a
technical consultation service was built up in 1990. Qualified
technical personal have been employed to support the purchase, for
example, to work out technical specifications attached to the
bidding documents. Computer-based management of the documents has
also played a key role in speeding up documents preparation and
shortening the purchase cycle.
4) Market investigations have been focussed
With the deepening and expanding of China's reform and opening
to the outside world, fresh information on new products and
technologies have been gathered from both home and abroad through
technical survey, design communication, technical training and
technical exchanges. This has contributed a great deal to the
building up of project and working-out of bidding documents, bids
evaluation and contract negotiations. The "China Modern Railway
Exhibition, 1992" attracted 55 foreign manufacturers, during the
period of the exhibition, contracts amounted US$ 64million in total
have been concluded.
5) Problems
a) Long purchase cycle due to complicated approving process;
b) System equipment has been purchased from different
manufacturers by small separated items, which effects the operating
reliability of the system. For example, of the primary equipment



- 61 -
for the power sub-station in Zheng-Wu line, different items are
supplied by Alsthom, France, ABB, Sweden and Chinese manufacturers,
and, of the secondary equipment, manufacturers are TUM, Japan, ABB,
Sweden and Westinghouse, England. These multivendor-equipment have
given rise a lot of difficulties in interfacing.
c) Software of the equipment could not meet the requirements of
the Chinese Railway due to that the operation conditions of the
railway have not been clearly specified in the contracts.
3. Evaluation of the equipment imported
The line, an important trunk channeling the North and South
China, is featured by high technical standard and therefore, the
following equipment with comparative advanced technologies have
been imported:
1. Optical transmission equipment               1 set
2. Program-controlled exchange                   13100 lines
3. Package switching network                    4 joints
4. Optical cables                                600km
5. Microcomputer interlocking device             1 set
6  CTC                                           1 set
7. Auto blocking system and Loco. Signalling  1 set
( 400 sets on the wayside, 31 sets on the loco.and 300 sets
of point type)
8. Telecontrol                                  2 sets
9. Traction power transformer                 129 sets
10. Segment insulator                          470 sets
11. Failure points calibrating devices            2 sets
12. Relay                                         1 set
13. Rail flaw detecting car                            1 set
14. Track recording car                           1 set
15. Hi-rail cars                                 5 set
16. Computer network system                      1 set
These equipment are featured by advanced technology,  fine
structure and good quality, compact and light weight, easy
operation and maintenance, safety and reliability. Since the
operation of the system, very few failures have been discovered in
segment insulator, relay, failure point calibrating and
tele-control devices.
Most of the above equipment are introduced to China for the
first  time,  therefore,  the software  used  in computer-based
interlocking system, CTC, etc. should be improved so as to meet the
actual conditions of the Chinese Railway.
4. Comment on suppliers
Most of the suppliers have acted strictly according to the
contracts, including delivery date, product quality and after sale
service. Many of them have sent their technical personal to carry
out the on-site installation and testing of equipment and training
of operators. Some of them, such as ABB, Jisima, Birili, have sent
their experts now and then to visit end users and offer



- 62 -
consultations after the completion of guarantee period , and have
supplied some parts free of charge.
A few suppliers, however, have delayed their delivery,
installation and testing date of the equipment, even asking for a
higher price. Sone quality problems have not been tacked on time.






IMAGING
DRAFT
CONFIDENTIAL
Report No:      15230
Type: PCR



