Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23289
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-251 10)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$26.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR THE
FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
December 27, 2001
Water and Urban II
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Leone (Le)
Le 1800 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1 = 0.0005
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
CBD                         Central Business District
CME                         Chief Municipal Engineer
DO                          Development Objective
DOHSS                       Department of Health and Social Services
DOW                         Department of Works
EIA                         Environmental Impact Assessment
FCC                         Freetown City Council
FIRP                        Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
GoSL                        Government of Sierra Leone
GVWC                        Guma Valley Water Company
IDA                         International Development Association
IP                          Implementation Progress
KfW                         Kreditanstalt fuir Wiederaufbau
MU                          Maintenance Unit
NGO                         Non Govenunental Organization
NPRC                        National Provisional Ruling Council
O&M                         Operation and Maintenance
PMCU                        Project Management and Coordinating Unit
PPF                         Project Preparation Facility
PSR                         Project Status Report
QAG                         Quality Assurance Group
RRMP                        Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
SAR                         Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                         Special Drawing Rights
SLPP                        Sierra Leone Peoples Party
SLRA                        Sierra Leone Roads Authority
TTL                         Task Team Leader
UNDP                        United Nations Development Program
UWSP                        Urban Water Supply Project
VOC                         Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo, AFRVP
Country Manager/Director:   Peter C. Harrold, AFC1O
Sector Manager/Director:    Letitia A. Obeng, AFTU2
Task Team Leader:    Charles K. Boakye, AFTU2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE
FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                12
6. Sustainability                                                                    14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   19
9. Partner Comments                                                                  21
10. Additional Information                                                          26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project 1D. P002433                                        Project Name. FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Team Leader. Charles K. Boakye                              TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date. December 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTUERE                        L/C/TFNumber. IDA-25110
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Country/Department: SIERRA LEONE                                           Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: UM - Urban Management; WW - Water Supply &
Sanitation Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/09/1992                               Effective:                     09/13/1993
Appraisal:  03/19/1993                                 MTR:                        12/01/1995
Approval:  06/10/1993                               Closing: 06/30/1998           06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/SLRA; GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA
LEONE/GVWC; GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/FCC
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Callisto Madavo                            Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:      Peter C. Harrold                           Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:       Letitia A. Obeng                           James Wright
Team Leader at ICR:   Charles K. Boakye                          Nguyen Tin
ICR Primary Author:   Charles K. Boakye; Marie-Adele
Tchakounte Sitchet
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL-Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objective of the project was to improve the infrastructure in Greater Freetown, with
special regard for the most disadvantaged sectors of the urban poor in the city. It was also to enhance
sustainability of such urban infrastructure by improving the technical and financial capacities of agencies
responsible for operating and maintaining new facilities and for planning and managing future investrnent
programs.
Assessment of Development Objectives and Design
The objectives of the project were clear and relevant, but the project was not in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). The objectives were consistent with the recommendations of a United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) financed study carried out in 1992, and supervised by development
partners then active in Sierra Leone, including the International Development Association (IDA). The
UNDP study assessed the condition of Freetown's physical infrastructure and institutional capacity and
made recommendations for improvement.
In April 1992, following the resumnption of IDA operations in Sierra Leone, IDA agreed to the
request by the Government of Sierra Leone (GoSL) to help prepare a rapid response project to address the
unsatisfactory condition of urban infrastructure in Freetown. In July 1992, an IDA project identification
mission visited Sierra Leone and, on the basis of the UNDP study, identified components for an urban
rehabilitation project. The UNDP report, carried out by local consultants, recommended: (i) urgent
measures to stem the tide of deterioration and improve environmental conditions; (ii) formulation of
long-term plans for each of the physical sectors to enable the design of more major projects to address
future needs; and (iii) identification and strengthening of institutional responsibilities to meet the
implementation, operational and maintenance needs of the sectors under their control.
During appraisal, it was realized that the needs of Freetown were far in excess of those identified in
the study. IDA and the Govemment of Sierra Leone decided to support an initial project that would help
arrest the ongoing deterioration of infiastructure facilities, build the technical and financial capacity in the
relevant institutions and support comprehensive studies, which would form the basis for a follow-up
project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The initial project objectives were maintained throughout implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised of five components: (a) urban upgrading; (b) rehabilitation/upgrading of
access roads; (c) water supply; (d) institutional support to Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA) for
project implementation and to FCC to help establish a maintenance capacity; and (e) technical assistance.
(a)    Urban Upgrading US$8.13 million:  This component was further divided into three
sub-components:
(i) Improvement of Deprived Settlements -US$5.28 million: Of the 14 identified deprived areas in
Freetown, the six which exhibited the worst conditions, included Krootown/Kroo Bay, Mabella, Susan's
Bay, Congo Market, Brookfield and Ginger Hall.
- 2 -



As some of the settlements (Kroo Bay and Susan Bay) occupied prime urban land, which could be
assigned to other uses in the future, upgrading measures were limited to minimum improvements to provide
essential facilities like water supply, toilets, solid waste disposal and access to such facilities. The four
remaining areas were to benefit from more comprehensive upgrading measures, including roads and
footpaths, drainage, water supply and sanitary facilities.
(ii) Market Improvement - US$2.48 million: This sub-component was designed to improve the
conditions at six of the busiest central markets in Freetown (Smythe Street Market, Krootown Road
Market, Garrison Street/Fisher Street Market, Hagan Street Market and Abattoir, Bombay Street Market
and Kennedy Street Market). These markets were unhygienic, overcrowded and severely dilapidated.
Specific activities earmarked under the project were the improvement of water supply, toilet and ablution
facilities, improving access, garbage collection and disposal facilities, and structural repairs to market
buildings. The improvements were short-term measures, which did not prejudice long-term studies of the
suitability of market locations in the city.
(iii) Solid Waste Management - US$0.37 million: As many of the problems of the settlement and
market areas were connected with the accumulation of uncollected solid waste, the project was to support
and extend the ongoing solid waste management project operated by the Departmnent of Health and Social
Services (DOHSS), with the support of the Government of Republic of Gernany. Under the project,
provision was made for acquiring 50 garbage containers to be placed within the project upgrading and
market areas, 2 skip trucks and necessary vehicles to support the monitoring unit of DOHSS. In addition,
a study was to be financed under the project to review the Solid Waste Management system in Freetown
and identify long-term options to address organizational, technical and operational aspects of the sector.
(b)    Road Rehabilitation (US$7.75 million)
The roads and drainage component was to provide access to deprived areas and markets selected
for upgrading to complement efforts of the Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (RRMP) to
remove bottlenecks and enhance trans-city movements. Physical works were expected to concentrate on the
repair and improvement of carriageway and footway surfaces and, in order to sustain those improvements,
provide adjacent roadside drains. Existing open drains in the areas of high pedestrian traffic were expected
to be covered so as to ensure the safety of pedestrians and motorists. This component was also to facilitate
a comprehensive traffic management study to assist in formulating a comprehensive traffic and
transportation policy.
(c)    Water Supply (US$7.01 million)
This component was aimed at optimizing the capacity of the water supply system and improving
the financial and management capacity of the Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC). The component
included a leak detection and repair program to reduce system losses; a universal metering of all
consumers; a routine distribution program; provision of communications and transport facilities to improve
GVWC's operations and improvements of its accounting and billing systems. Studies were to be carried out
to assess water demand and systems requirements; review of the organization, operation, finances and
water tariff structure of GVWC and recommend measures for improvement. These studies were to forn the
basis for a future water supply/sewerage project for possible IDA financing.
(d)    Institutional support to SLRA and FCC to establish a maintenance capacity (US$3.43
milion)
-3 -



SLRA: A Project Management and Coordination Unit (PMCU) for the Freetown Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project (FIRP) was to be established within SLRA to be responsible for the implementation
of the project. Provision was made in the project for financing the services of a Project Manager for at
least three years, and acquisition of vehicles, office equipment and supplies for the unit.
FCC:  An organizational and financial review of FCC was to be carried out with a view to
improving the operations and finances of the City Council. Subject to the findings of the study, and in
order to sustain and ensure the efficient operation and routine maintenance of physical facilities provided
under the project, the FCC was expected to establish a maintenance capability within its City Engineer's
Department. The project was to provide financing for the services of a Municipal Engineer for setting up
and managing a Maintenance Unit (MU). Provision was also to be made for the acquisition of necessary
equipment including emergency firefighting equipment and facilities to service the unit. The FCC was to
establish the MU and appoint the Municipal Engineer by January 31, 1994.
(e)    Technical Assistance (US$3.82 million)
Provision was to be made for consultant services to carry out a number of studies for solid waste
management, traffic management, storm drainage and sewerage and the organizational and financial review
of FCC. In addition, the project was to include technical assistance for engineering design and construction
supervision for the various project components to be implemented by SLRA and GVWC, for strengthening
the FCC's operational capacity and the overall management of project implementation. Technical
assistance was also to be included for the preparation of a structural plan for Greater Freetown and
feasibility studies for the rehabilitation/upgrading of infrastructure in other major urban centers in Sierra
Leone.
Assessment of Original components
The five components above were clearly linked to the objectives of the project. They covered most
of the critical areas for improving infrastructure in the city of Freetown and strengthening the technical and
financial capacity of FCC. The two main implementing agencies, SLRA and GVWC were also ready to
implement the project.
Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA)
SLRA was established under legislation enacted in 1992, during the preparation of the
IDA-financed RRMP, as a semi-independent entity to be responsible for administrative control, planning,
development and maintenance of all roads and related structures in Sierra Leone. The Authority was
headed by a Director General, who was an experienced Civil Engineer, and managed by a Board of
Directors. To assist the Director General in implementing the project, a Project Management and
Coordinating Unit (PMCU) was established within SLRA to manage and coordinate the implementation of
all project components other than the Water Supply component. The PMCU was headed by a Project
Manager, who was an experienced expatriate Engineer, with adequate local counterpart personnel
(Assistant Project Manager, Procurement Specialist and Project Accountant). The PMCU reported directly
to the Director General. SLRA was therefore fully equipped to handle the engineering, procurement and
financial aspects of the project. Lessons were taken from the RRMP, which was approved by the Board
and made effective the month before FIRP was declared effective.
The Guma Valley Water Company, established in 1961 to supply water to the city of Freetown,
was also ready to implement the less complicated water component.
- 4 -



A Project Steering Committee, chaired by the Ministry of Finance, and comprising all agencies
(FCC, GVWC, DOHSS, and so forth), was also set up to provide policy guidance and oversee the
implementation of the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were maintained throughout the life of the project. However, following
the disturbances of May 1997 and January 1999, the project was put on hold, where most of the partially
completed road works were washed away by storm water. Some sections of the completed roads were also
vandalized during the crises. Repairs for such damage and cost escalation associated with the hold up
necessitated a reduction in the scope of works. This led to a revised scope of works, which excluded a
substantial amount of road works in two of the six upgrading sites of Susan's Bay and Mabela. A
Technical and Financial audit was carried out prior to the resumption of work, which recommended
completion of the road works, including remedial works, as against focusing only on the outstanding works
in the contract.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry is rated as satisfactory. The project was prepared through the active
participation of GoSL, FCC, SLRA and GVWC, and consultations were carried out with the Government
and management of these agencies to articulate their priorities and scope into the project design. Also
consultations were carried out with the beneficiaries through a local Non-Governmental Organization
(NGO) which helped sustain the interest of residents in the project. The participatory approach helped to
remove institutional differences among agencies.
There has been political instability in Sierra Leone as a result of two coups d'etat in the early
1990's. There were no rebels in Sierra Leone then, but rather, in Liberia, which resulted in a mass exodus
of people into urban areas of Sierra Leone. The ruling military Govermnent had committed itself to
important economic reforms and set out to undertake democratic elections and hand over power to a
Civilian government, a process which was completed by 1995.
The project was the first IDA-financed urban development operation in Sierra Leone and the
US$26 million IDA funding was additional to the original IDA budget for Sierra Leone for that financial
year. It was prepared and processed in a relatively short period of about six months, with the active
involvement of the then Division Chief, who participated in the identification mission. The quick
processing of the project could not have been achieved without the strong cooperation and support of the
Government and the project agencies -- Freetown City Council, Guma Valley Water Company and the
Sierra Leone Roads Authority. Lessons learned and experience gained from the preparation of the RRMP
(also managed by SLRA) facilitated the quick processing time of FIRP, which was approved by the Board
in June 1993, signed in July 1993, and became effective in September 1993.
The institutional arrangements were in place and an implementation/procurement plan was agreed
with GoSL during appraisal. The preliminary and detailed engineering studies of the upgrading, roads,
market and water components commenced during project preparation, and the terms of reference for the
recruitment of the Municipal Engineer and the preparation of all studies were prepared by GoSL, cleared
by IDA and included in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). All consultant assignments prior to the
preparation of the project were delivered on time, and Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) were
prepared for all major components.
- 5-



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Objective I - In spite of the severe disruption caused by civil disturbances, including a coup d'etat
and a rebel incursion, the project's outcome on the overall objective of improving the infrastructure in
Greater Freetown, with special regard for the most disadvantaged sectors of the urban poor in the city
was satisfactory. The impact of the construction of infrastructure was satisfactory. The outcome on
poverty reduction was rather modest due to the reduction in the scope of the road construction necessitated
by the war, which affected poor communities of Freetown (see below).
Quality of life in low-income areas. The impact of the public standpipes, ablution and toilet
facilities in six low-income areas is substantial. They have served many of the most vulnerable residents of
the city since their completion in 1996, who otherwise would not have access to such services. As this took
place at a time when there was a rapid influx of people into the city from other parts of the country due to
the civil war, it also provided some relief to these internally displaced people. The current population
benefiting from the amenities in these settlements was estimated at 1.4 million, and by far exceeds the
project projections of 1.1 million, lowering the service level to well below the intended target (i.e. the
number of people served per stand post and per toilet).
Improvement of Markets. The impact of the improvements to the six busiest markets in the city is
substantial, as it has generated a high demand to undertake similar works in other markets. The only major
problem that remains is the irregular removal of refuse from the market areas (see below). According to a
1997 study carried out by Fourah Bay College of the University of Sierra Leone, the improvements in the
environmental conditions at the six rehabilitated markets benefited over 196,000 inhabitants, who visited
the markets on a daily basis, while a third of the number traded outside the market. Currently, it is
estimated that more than 350,000 trade in the markets. The study, also assessed the impact of the market
upgrading activities on market users, revenues and incomes, and concluded that almost three quarters of
market users of all rehabilitated markets were satisfied with the cleanliness of the markets and especially
with the availability of adequate toilet facilities. However, in the case of the markets at Hagan and Kennedy
Streets, about 55 percent of the users were dissatisfied with the size and cleanliness of the toilets.
Refuse Collection. The outcome of the assistance provided for refuse collection is negligible.
During the disturbances and the subsequent civil war, nearly all the equipment procured for solid waste
management under the project was either diverted to other uses or vandalized. Refuse collection in
Freetown, particularly in the six low-income communities targeted by the project, is currently in a poorer
condition than at the beginning of the project. At the time of project preparation, GoSL had in place a solid
waste collection system, established through a bilateral agreement with the German Government. To avoid
duplication of efforts, the FIRP did not include resources for the institutional and operational aspects of the
on-going activity, but rather provided specific equipment inputs targeted at the six low-income communities
and recommended further studies. The German team left at the end of the assignment in 1995, and the
contract for the local private sector refuse collectors lapsed after the coup.  Currently, an ad-hoc
arrangement has been put in place where SLRA manages the collection of refuse in Freetown and other
major cities under a Sanitation Task Force program. The solid waste collection situation in Freetown
remains a serious issue that needs to be addressed.
Access to deprived areas and markets. The impact of the construction of roads and drains is
substantial. The residents of four of the six deprived communities in Freetown, namely Brookfields, Congo
- 6 -



Market, Ginger Hall and Krootown, benefited greatly from the road construction, especially in areas where
(before the construction) steep slopes had caused serious soil erosion with the heavy rainfall, making the
intervention highly successful. The impact in Susan's Bay and Marbella is negligible since the road
construction was curtailed to allow for the reconstruction of roads elsewhere that were left unfinished for a
long time following the civil war and had seriously deteriorated (see Section 4.2, Outputs). The roadside
drains that were constructed serve as conduits for the discharge of storm water, thereby reducing flooding
and erosion, and improving pedestrian and vehicular traffic. The discharge of sullage water through these
channels has significantly improved environmental conditions and eliminated stagnant waters, the breeding
ground for mosquitoes. They have reduced the indiscriminate dumping of refuse and are likely to prolong
the life of roads and reduce maintenance costs.
Recent studies carried out under the RRMP show significant improvement in road condition and
reduction in the Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC) for similar roads constructed in Freetown's Central
Business District (CBD). Since this was designed mainly as a rehabilitation project, traffic capacity
problems on the improved roads were not addressed. However, traffic management facilities were installed
within space constraints, particularly at junctions, and the lay-byes which have eased the traffic congestion
to a limited extent. The Traffic Management and Improvement studies carnied out under the project have
recommended ways to improve the road network and traffic circulation in Freetown, and it is expected that
these recommendations would be implemented.
Water Supply. Water distribution systems and public standpipes constructed under the project in
the westem parts of the city have provided potable water to a significant number of low-income dwellers.
Some of the water points are dry at present but are expected to become operational when the water
transmission mains, to the eastem part of the city, are completed. They are currently under construction
through the Urban Water Supply Project (IDA Cr. 2702 - SL). Under the current system, domestic
consumers pay an amount of Le3O per Le 000 of annual property ratable value, i.e. 0.3 percent of property
ratable value, resulting in very low returns for GVWC's operations. Until early 2001, several Government
and state institutions were in arrears on the payment of water. This had an adverse effect on GVWC's
revenue, resulting in their inability to service loans contracted for their operations. The GoSL has since
paid a substantial portion of the arrears. Charging for water by Universal Metering, which has commenced
in the west side of the City and now operative in about 30 percent of the city, has resulted in improved
collection from consumers. Some unconnected consumers use stand posts through a prepaid card system.
Objective 2 - Technical and financial capacity.  The improvement of adequate technical and
financial capacity in agencies responsible for operating and maintaining new facilities has been modest
at best (see Section 6 - Sustainability). (a) The Maintenance Unit in FCC started operating only after the
closing date with the resumption of duty of the Chief Municipal Engineer (CME). A detailed work
program for the unit and a training program have been prepared, but full operations cannot be carried out
since the anticipated allocation to FCC from the road find has not yet been made. Road maintenance
works, currently being handled by the Maintenance Department of SLRA is yet to be handed over to the
MU. The maintenance of markets, ablutions and other public facilities are however handled by the MU.
(b) The PMCU that was created in SLRA for the project has been integrated into SLRA. The staff that was
recruited is still in place and managing some aspects of the Urban Water Supply project, Transport Sector
project, and assisting with the technical Audits and disbursements under the Road Fund. (c) GVWC
management instituted reforms to improve the finances of the Company, including metering and the design
of simple prepaid cards with which to collect water from public standpipes. New water rates were also
gazetted in November 2000 and contributed to 60 percent increase in revenue in 2000, according to
GVWC's Audited Financial statement. However, the collected amount is still not sufficient to cover all of
its operational costs excluding debt servicing.
- 7 -



Objective 3 - Planning and managing future investment programs.  The outcome of this
component was satisfactory. With the exception of the Freetown Structural Plan and Investment program
(the only study that was in progress at the commencement of the disturbances), all the other studies were
completed, but most of the reports cannot be found, and therefore none of the findings in these studies have
been considered for implementation (see section 4.2). The studies carried out under GVWC were however,
implemented and the project provided GVWC with the tools with which to plan and manage the follow-up
IDA financed Urban Water Supply Project (Cr. 2702-SL), now under implementation.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The overall achievement on outputs has been substantial. The implementation of the Freetown
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project progressed well until the coup d'etat occurred in May 25,1997.
Disbursements were suspended twice because it was impossible to continue with the project. By the time
the coup occurred, about 65 percent of the Credit had been disbursed. The status of completion of the main
project components, according to SLRA, were as follows:
Community/Urban Upgrading                -      100% (Toilets & Ablutions)
Market Rehabilitation                    -      100%
Support to MOH Waste Program             -      100%
Roads Component                          -      50%
Water Supply                             -      60%
Equipment, Vehicles & Materials (SLRA)   -      100%
Equipment, Vehicles & Materials (FCC)    -      100% (Fire Force)
Equipment, Vehicles & Materials (FCC)    -       60% (Maintenance Unit)
Studies/Master Plans                     -       75%
When the disbursements resumed in July 1999, the project focused mainly on road works, water
supply, rehabilitation of the maintenance yard, and the procurement of maintenance equipment. A large
unsettled claim for damages under force majeure by the contractor for road construction prevented the
speedy resumption of construction activities and caused further deterioration of the unfinished portions of
the roads and associated works. A technical and Financial audit was carried out on the Roads contract by
the GoSL to determine the state of the works and how to prioritize and complete the works with remaining
funds. Priority was given to the restoration of works that had been vandalized.
The status of completion of the components at the time of closing of the credit is shown below:
Urban Upgrading. (US$3.44 million) The achievements on the outputs on this component were
substantial. Under the project, 17 toilets and ablution facilities were completed in the six low-income areas
of Freetown and handed over to FCC in 1996. Six of the busiest markets of the City were rehabilitated to
satisfactory standards, with the provision of toilet and other sanitation facilities, water, electricity, and
day-care centers. The success of the component led IDA to agree to FCC's request during the Mid-tenn
review workshop to release US$1 million to carry out the rehabilitation of three additional markets. The
designs were completed but the works could not be awarded on contract because of disturbances in early
1997. Fifty refuse containers were place at the various markets and the selected low-income areas. Two
skip loaders were given to the Ministry of Health and Sanitation for enhancing collection and disposal of
waste as well as two monitoring vehicles for supervisory staff. Most of this equipment was either diverted
to other uses or destroyed during the disturbances (see Section 4.1).
Road Rehabilitation and Drainage. (US$11.22 million) The achievements on this component are
- 8 -



modest. The rehabilitation of about 15 km out the 27 km envisaged under the project were completed in
Brookfields, Congo Market, Ginger Hall and Krootown, which are four of the six deprived communities in
Freetown, representing 70 percent of the planned length of roads. A further 9 km is partially complete as
the road surfaces are secured at base and prime levels, and there is the need for the application of the final
bitumen surface on the road. The works in Susan's Bay (0.66 km) and Marbella (0.41 km), constituting
about 4 percent of the total contract, were deleted from the contract due to insufficient funds after the
reallocation of funds for rehabilitation and completion of roads that had been left unfinished at the start of
the coup d'etat. During the last visit to Freetown after the closing of the project, the contractor was
carrying out work on the 9 km that was left uncompleted at the closing of the project, being financed by
GoSL at the cost of $500,000.
Shortly before the closing date of the project, IDA received a request from the Government for a further
extension of Closing date of the Credit to December 31, 2001 to enable the contractor complete the roads
contract. The information that a substantial portion of the road works remained to be completed came as a
surprise to the IDA since the Borrower had assured the previous implementation review mission that the
remaining works would be completed before the closing date. The project had been extended three times,
and considering that only five days remained to the closing date and in the absence of the required detailed
action plan for the project's completion, the IDA was unable to approve the extension. Moreover, no
reliable estimate was available of the value of the work performed up to the time the extension request was
made.
Water Supply (US$6.86 million) The completion of the physical works was substantial, while the
output on the institutional and financial aspects of the project were modest at best.
Civil works. Out of 9,899 meters planned for installation towards a Universal Metering Program,
about 9,188 meters or 93 percent were installed in the distribution network. About 28 km of pipeline of
various sizes have been laid to extend the distribution system, which is 130 percent of the planned output of
22 km. Water now flows in most parts of the city, except for the east where transmission mains are
currently being laid under the Urban Water Supply project (Cr. 2702-SL). A total of 524 standpipes were
built in depressed communities, where the installation of metered household connections was not a realistic
option, as against a planned figure of 500 standpipes. This brings the total number of standpipes working
in Freetown to about 774. Two water tankers were also procured to supply water to the communities
where flow has been curtailed as a result of non-completion of works under the UWSP.
Universal Metering program. and Leak Detection and Repair. Generally, about 90 percent of the
water produced is used by domestic consumers, and this category of users account for 23 percent of
revenue instead of 50 percent as forecast. GVWC has so far not been able to implement a universal
metering program and tariff structure that would ensure a realistic and sustainable system of billing for
consumers. The universal pattern of water consumption throughout the network could not be ascertained
due to the malfunctioning of flow loggers and bulk meters. However, some leakage detection has been
done on a routine basis and bulk meter readings taken periodically to determine priority zones for
inspection and repairs. The unit set up under this project has improved on leak detection and repairs,
resulting in some water conservation. The current water rate does not allow GVWC to operate
economically (supplying of chemical for water treatment, hiring competent staff, paying its debts and
counterpart funding, etc.). There is a need to bill water based on consumption, and not on a fixed lump sum
as is done currently for domestic consumption, and adjust water tariffs from time to time to enable the
company to achieve at least a break-even situation.
To facilitate the leak detection program, improvements were made to the Company's
-9-



communication and transport program by repairing radio transmitters and receivers and procuring
additional ones, and this has helped maintained links to all outstations. Two new company substations
have been established in the west at Wilberforce village, and in the east, along the Freetown Highway to
strengthen the contacts between the company and its consumers.
Billing and Collection
Charging for water by Universal Metering, which has commenced in the west side of the City and
now operative in about thirty percent of the city has resulted in the collection of money from categories of
consumers that did not pay for water supply before. Unconnected consumers use standposts through a
prepaid card system. Universal meter charges for water supply has improved on revenue and encouraged
conservation.
Institutional improvements included the computerization of the billing and accounting system
which have ensured that; (i) bills are prepared and delivered to consumers on a timely basis with one
hundred percent billing as opposed to about thirty five percent before the system was computerized; and (ii)
Guma Valley Water Company's receivable position is gradually improving due to settlement of the
Governments arrears of Le2.7 billion. Revenue collection has improved with regular and comprehensive
billing. The engagement of disconnection contractors pursuing vigorous disconnection has had a positive
effect. The Governnent and GVWC signed a memorandum of understanding for settlement of arrears as of
December 31 1999; this had an improvement in the public sector's payments (as of April 18, 2001, the
government arrears were Le2.7 Billion). The majority of the population is still not paying for the water it
consumes and collection rates are estimated around 15 percent, the overall situation has not improved and
remains a major problem for the company. This situation is endangering the operational performance of the
company and the adequate water supply to Freetown.
Management Inforrnation System. _A management information system, which has been put in
place, has created some improvement in the level of financial and general management and has produced
some important management information, including operational budgets; capital budgets and annual
budgets with variances. The MIS facility has also helped GVWC to undertake annual revaluation of
assets.
Institutional Support to FCC and SLRA. (US$1.17 million) FCC Workshop and Maintenance
yard. The project rehabilitated the Blackhall Road Works Yard to make it the Engineering and Technical
Services Department of FCC. The work was delayed due to delays in turning over the site (by the client) to
the contractor and later, the events of May 1997 and January 1999. With the rehabilitation of the block,
the maintenance yard is made up of the following: (i) an office block and toilet facilities; (ii) vehicle
maintenance facilities; (iii) electrical and mechanical workshop; and (iv) vehicle and equipment parts
storage block. Other facilities include: (i) an open work space and storage to vehicle maintenance and car
park; (ii) carpentry workshop; (iii) offices and secured storage space; (iv) a generator house; (v) an
engineering drawing office; (vi) single office block for the Environmental Health Division; (vii) security
posts; (viii) two underground fuel storage tanks and service bays; and (ix) vehicle/car wash and covered car
park. A number of items including drawing office equipment, Road Maintenance equipment (Bituminous
Sprayer and accessories, Pedestrian rollers, plate compactors, air compressors, concrete mixer, etc), and
office furniture and equipment have been supplied to ensure efficient functioning of the yard.
The Chief Municipal Engineer (CME), recruited through a competitive process is in place to
manage the yard, and there is a complement of support staff to assist. Two different expatriate CMEs were
appointed to run the affairs of the city but they have left one after the other, as the political instability and
- 10 -



uncertainty raged in Sierra Leone for over three years. The previous (CMEs), who were expatriates were
paid with IDA funds. As the project got to a close, a new CME was appointed, a citizen of Sierra Leone,
and the salary is paid from the Road fund. It was learnt that a program for the management of facilities
has been prepared but no road fund transfers have been made to FCC yet.
The PMCU that was set up in SLRA is still in place and the staff has contributed to the
implementation of the UWSP, TSP and other projects. All the personnel that were recruited in 1993 are
still in post.
Technical Assistance (US$4.76 million) The output results of this component are modest. The
project was to formulate long-term plans for each of the infrastructure sectors, to enable the design of
future projects to further improve conditions in Freetown. A number of studies were carried out that could
serve the basis for the preparation of future projects.  These include, Traffic Management and
Improvement Studies, Solid Waste Management Study, Freetown Sewerage and Drainage Study, and
Freetown Structural Plan and Investment program, and the Organizational and Financial Review of FCC
operations. With the exception of the Freetown Structural Plan and Investment program all the other
studies were completed, but most of the reports cannot be traced, and none of the findings in any of these
studies have been reviewed for implementation. According to SLRA, the reports were destroyed during the
raid of SLRA offices and the burning of FCC's City Hall during the disturbances. A recent committee,
constituted by the FCC to review the studies and their findings, has been able to assemble some of the
reports, and the committee plans to obtain copies of the missing reports from the consultants who carried
out the studies.
Studies carried out under GVWC were implemented and the project provided GVWC with the
tools with which to plan and manage the follow-up IDA financed Urban Water Supply Project (Cr.
2702-SL). The Organization and Management Review of the operations of GVWC were adopted, and
most of the recommendations made have moved further to develop a Management Infonnation System.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic viability of the project was estimated in the SAR by calculating the rates of return of
the physical components and gave a combined ERR of 34.4 percent. It was not possible to estimate the rate
of return upon completion; however, recent studies done under the RRMP (Credit 2451-SL) indicate
economic rate of return for simnilar roads in the central business district to be about 99 percent. Beneficiary
surveys, conducted after the completion of certain components, showed substantial benefits, including: (i)
market users were generally satisfied with the rehabilitation works (including the improvement in
environmental conditions) and did not raise any opposition to the fee increases proposed by FCC; (ii)
construction of roadside drains allow discharge of sullage from homes and has eliminated the then
ubiquitous stagnant pools of water in the six low-income areas with associated reduction in grounds for
breeding of mosquitoes; (iii) construction of public standpipes has increased access to water by vulnerable
groups in the low-income areas in the eastern parts of the city; and (iv) rehabilitation of local roads in
Brookfield, Congo Market, Kroo Town/Kroo Bay and Ginger Hall has improved access to public transport
by residents and generally improved environmental conditions in these settlements.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return could not be calculated as no data was available.
4.5 Institutional developmnent itnpact.
The institutional development objectives of the project can be described as modest. Capacity has
been built in SLRA with the establishment of the PMCU and all personnel are in place. The FCC
- 11 -



Maintenance unit has been established, and some personnel and equipment are in place. The project did not
set out to build organizational and financial management capacity in FCC but to establish a maintenance
unit to be able to operate and maintain the infrastructure and services established with project support. To
a moderate extent this capacity has been established. The buildings have been completed and a core staff,
headed by a Chief Municipal Engineer, has been recruited and all the equipment installed. SLRA has
agreed in principle to allocate a part of the proceeds from the Road Fund to FCC for maintenance of local
roads; however, it has not been possible to agree on the quantum of this amount.
A total of seven studies involving over 300 man-months of consultant's inputs were prepared,
including the Storm Water Drainage and Sewerage, Traffic Management, Solid Waste Management, Water
Master Plan, Organizational and Financial Review each of FCC and GVWC and Structure Plan of
Freetown. FCC has now made an attempt to put in place a committee to advise the way forward; even then,
it has not been possible to assemble the reports from these studies. However, the Project Management and
Coordinating Unit, which was set up in SLRA and headed by an expatriate Engineer for three years, has
been useful. Some measure of project management expertise was imparted to local counterpart staff who
are working on other IDA-supported Projects.
The Guma Valley Water Company has, on the basis of the recommendation of the Financial
Review Study, installed a Management Information System, which has improved performance in revenue
collection. New billing procedures have been put in place and include a paid card system that authorizes the
user to collect water from public standpipes, new water rates have been gazetted and are already showing
cash-flow results. The performance of the leak detection system was not very satisfactory, due to the
absence of certain critical equipment, and does not allow their performance in relation to reduction of
unaccounted for water to be measured.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of governmnent or implementing agency:
The Impact of the May 25, 1997 Coup d'etat on the project
The implementation of the FIRP progressed well from 1993 until the coup d'etat of May 25, 1997
occurred. Generally, SLRA's records indicated that, by the time the coup took place, disbursements of the
Credit funds were about 65 percent -- indicative of approximately the same or higher percentage of
physical completion of the project components (see Section 4.2). According to SLRA, the works were
suspended and the ensuing rainy season (between June and October 1997) brought considerable amounts of
rains that adversely affected those roads that had been partially completed; unquantifiable volumes of
sub-base and base materials that had been laid and compacted (but not protected) were washed down the
slopes in Ginger Hall causing severe damage. Storm water, overflowing the drains and moving at great
speed brought down portions of premises and boundary walls in the Brookfields and Kroo Bay areas;
debris was found on streets and roads in most parts of Freetown during that period, resulting in
compensation claims.
The legitimate government was reinstated on March 10, 1998, shortly after external.military
intervention of February but IDA could not lift suspension of disbursements relating to the project until
June 22, 1998, by which time most of the consultants and contractors staff had left the country. The site
suffered damages and the contractor incurred losses in equipment and materials. In the course of the chaos
that ensued, new works were vandalized while existing structures at that time had deteriorated further.
- 12 -



The impact of the January 6, 1999 Rebel invasion of Freetown on the project
As the security situation in the country started improving, there was another setback involving the
invasion of Freetown by rebel forces and their allies on January 6, 1999. Even though Freetown was
liberated after a few weeks, over 50 percent of the provincial areas of the country remained under rebel
control. Disbursement of IDA Credit funds was again suspended until June 1999. The rainy season of June
to October 1999 generated more storm water damage on unprotected roads in the project areas,
endangering additional restoration works and washing off complete sections of some roads, thereby cutting
off flow of vehicular traffic. During the period the city was invaded, a considerable number of buildings,
including FCC City Hall, the Central Bank and other public buildings were destroyed by fire. In the
process, power and telephone lines and water supply services were curtailed, bringing virtually all
socioeconomic activities to a halt. The project lost a considerable amount of property, including vehicles
and office equipment. All the expatriate personnel fled the country; some never returned.
When work resumed, a Claims Expert was recruited by SLRA in August 1999, on the advice of
IDA, to examine and review the contractor's huge claims of US$15 million. This was subsequently reduced
to US$7.5 rnillion. The Bank's mission of October 1999 advised SLRA to set up an internal claims
committee to deal with the matter prior to entering negotiations with the contractor. The claim was
thereafter reduced to US$6.75 million, which was later approved by Government, but has not been settled.
Because the payment of the approved claim was delayed, the contractor was reluctant to continue full-scale
work due to his severe cash flow difficulties at that time, and this adversely affected the progress of the
roads contract.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The NPRC and the SLPP Governments should be commended for their firm commitments in
meeting the various covenants of the project, which contributed toward the success of the implementation
of the FIRP at the initial stages. Among the unfavorable circumstances affecting the implementation of the
project was the issue of counterpart funds. All the local contributors, including the Government, reneged on
their counterpart fund contribution and this affected the implementation schedule of certain key
components.
A serious shortcoming of the Government was the limited progress made in redefining in clear
terms the responsibilities of agencies for operation and maintenance of the City's infrastructure. For
example, the ad-hoc nature of the decision to assign the responsibility for the collection of refuse to the
Ministry of Health, and equally, the appointment of a contractor in a premature bid to privatize provision
of the service.   The multi-sector nature of these problems required the intervention of the central
Government. The general tendency was to centralize service delivery, thus depriving the Council an
opportunity to exercise its mandate.
As agreed at appraisal, the Government honored its promise to waive duties and taxes on imported
goods and equipment on the project, and this contributed to the early procurement successes of the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Systems and procedures needed for the effective management of the project were not established at
project commencement. Thus, beyond the inputs of the expatriate Consultant, implementation could not be
sustained at the same level. The first three years of project implementation was very smooth and the Project
Management and Coordinating Unit located in the SLRA discharged its obligations in a satisfactory
manner, all IDA guidelines were followed, including the procurement and disbursement procedures, and
also reporting. After the departure of the expatriate Project Manager there was a sharp drop in the
- 13 -



performance of the unit, including irregular reporting.
At the initial stages, care was not taken to install the requisite project management software needed
to track the different stages of implementation. In particular, the accounting system used could not capture
all the numerous transactions made, and as a result, reconciliation of the project and special accounts could
not be carried out on a timely basis.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost as stipulated in the SAR was US$36 million, which was made up of the
following: IDA - US$26 million, GoSL - US$9.3 million, FCC - US$0.10 million and GVWC - USS0.6
million. The Government counterpart funds contribution of US$9.3 million was made up of: (i) custom
duties and taxes on imported goods and equipment; (ii) operating cost of SLRA, FCC and GVWC; and (iii)
matching funds for civil works. At appraisal, it was estimated that Government would waive duties and
taxes on Goods and equipment worth US$22 million, and give a tax relief of about US$6 million to
contractors, consultants and suppliers. The actual tax relief accrued is not available but it was learnt that
the Ministry of Finance indeed wrote to the Customs and Excise Department to waive duties and taxes on
all contracts under the project. It was also leamt that the Government bore the full operating cost of
SLRA, GVWC activities, including the preparation of progress reports estimated at Le814 million. Even
though the project benefited immensely from the tax relief, the total counterpart fund contribution of
Government was high, and the figure should have been restricted to not more than 20 percent of IDA's
contribution.
The final total cost of the project was about US$27.5 million, and there were significant
differences between the appraisal estimates and actual expenditures. The total Government matching funds
contribution for civil works were also lower than anticipated, due to higher foreign currency requirements
demanded by foreign firms, which reduced the local currency requirements under the contract.
The contracts sums of the contractors and consultants that were still carrying out the works at the
time of the political disturbances increased, and some of them filed claims, which were paid under the
credit. The major claims filed under the contract, which was negotiated and reduced to US$6.75 million
could, however, not be paid under the credit as there were not enough funds, and moreover, IDA could not
support the payment of this claim. Due to the damage caused on the completed facilities, and the
deterioration that had been caused on the uncompleted facilities, the scope of road works was reduced to
remain within the available funds.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale fbr sustainability rating:
The sustainability is rated likely. As the infrastructure rehabilitated under the project have
withstood the instability and political violence that occurred during the life of the project, it is likely that the
sustainability of the project would be achieved. Since the massive influx of people from the countryside to
Freetown began, there has been a great determination of not only the City council officials and Government
to ensure continuous running of the services, but users have also made a conscious effort to preserve the
limited facilities.
Personnel in PCMU: All the three professional staff who were recruited at the beginning of the
project in 1993 are in place and they have been integrated into the structure of the SLRA. They have
assisted in the implementation of other projects.
- 14 -



Availability of Funds and Maintenance Capability: The physical infrastructure rehabilitated under
the project, namely, Toilets, Markets, Water Supply etc. have been revenue yielding ventures as demand
for the running of these facilities have increased. Revenue from markets has exceeded appraisal projections
and FCC is in a position to meet short-term and long-term maintenance needs of the markets, and ablution
and toilet facilities provided they are under private management.
Road Fund: For the newly constructed roads and drains, the Sierra Leone Roads Authority has
earmarked part of the proceeds of the road fund for maintenance of local roads in Freetown, including the
roads rehabilitated under the project. The Road Fund is an autonomous body set up in 2000, and financed
out of fuel levy, vehicle licensing and vehicle registration fees, and expected to assist SLRA to plan the
management and maintenance of the road network. The road fund is a stable source of funding for the
immediate and long-term needs of the roads rehabilitated, which for the next five years would only require
routine maintenance. Once there is enough capacity in FCC, the road fund allocation for Freetown would
be transferred to FCC to manage all roads in the city. The sustainability of the roads components is linked
to the collection of taxes and fees through the Road fund.
Establishing the Maintenance Unit and appointment of CME: With the rehabilitation of the
Blackhall Yard, the hiring of staff, and the procurement of various maintenance equipment, the stage has
been set for building capacity in FCC for maintenance of the roads and other structures rehabilitated under
the project. As the project got to a close, a new CME was appointed, a citizen of Sierra Leone, whose
salary is paid from the Road fund.
Political Commitment: At present Freetown is a relatively safer place in Sierra Leone. There is
therefore a sharp increase in migration from rural communities, putting considerable pressure on urban
infrastructure and service provision. The Government is fully aware of the need to improve urban service
delivery and has: (i) instituted measures to start paying long-standing arrears owed to the water company;
(ii) discharged all obligations covering the use of the road fund; (iii) reconstituted the City Council with
councillors of adequate skills and commitmnent to evolve effective strategies for meeting the needs of their
communities; and (iv) agreed with the universal metering policy instituted by GVWC which hitherto had
been seriously opposed. With these measures and the good govemance policy adopted by Government, the
current political commitment would be sustained.
Social impact and community participation: Facilities rehabilitated by the project have been
accepted by the beneficiaries as their own and their input has been sought in the management arrangements.
Prior to commissioning the urban upgrading facilities, the FCC with the assistance of an NGO organized
meetings with beneficiary communities to discuss matters relating to proper utilization, upkeep and
vigilance to prevent the facilities from being vandalized. The commitment shown and the present clean and
remarkable physical condition of these facilities, confirm the benefits of involving beneficiaries in the
operation and maintenance of social amenities. Similar participatory measures were recently adopted by the
GVWC and as a result, opposition to metering of standpipes has eased, and there is a rush for the monthly
paid cards, and the communities retain a percentage of the user fees. The GVWC has seen improved
revenue for its maintenance operations and its maintenance staff received adequate training under the
project.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Arrangements for future operation: Adequate arrangements have been put in place for the future
operation and maintenance of the facilities provided by the project. FCC has contracted out the
management of toilet and ablution facilities including cleaning and revenue collection to the private sector,
with effective monitoring done by the community.
- 15-



FCC manages the markets through an organization headed by a market superintendent who reports
to the treasurer of the Council, and the users are consulted on regular basis regarding rate increases. Waste
collection is done by the Department of Health Services and Sanitation of the Ministry of Health, however
there have been several cases of default and FCC now maintains a rapid response unit for collecting waste
from the markets. Routine and periodic maintenance of facilities rehabilitated under the project would be
done by the newly established Engineering and Technical Services Department of FCC.
Performance Monitoring Indicators: In the absence of any monitoring system in the FCC, the set
of monitoring indicators developed at appraisal (see Annex 1) will continue to be used to monitor
performance during the operational phase of the project. GVWC has performnance monitoring system in
place and is part of the information presented in their audited accounts. The Indicators will be used to
monitor the incremental impact of the water supply component of the project.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
The Bank performance during project appraisal is rated as Satisfactory. The bank was very
committed to the project and made efforts to assist the Government deal with the deteriorating
infrastructure in Freetown. Following resumptions of Bank operations in Sierra Leone, the Bank agreed to
assist the Government of Sierra Leone with the early preparation of a project to address the unsatisfactory
condition of urban infrastructure in Freetown. The Bank took part in the review of various stages of the
UNDP funded report. In July 1992, a project identification mission visited Sierra Leone and, on the basis
of the UNDP financed study, identified possible components of an urban rehabilitation project. The UNDP
report helped to establish the needs of FCC, and identified operational bottlenecks, and made
recommendations for the rehabilitation of the severely dilapidated physical infrastructure in the City. This
was followed in November of the same year with a project preparation mission, which assisted by the
Government, identified and appointed Consultants to prepare studies for the main components of the
proposed project, including property revaluation, urban upgrading, market upgrading, urban road
improvement and water supply. The project was subsequently appraised in February/March 1993
Negotiations took place in March 1993, and the Board approved the credit in April 1993. The
Credit was signed in July 1993 and became effective in September 1993, after three conditions of
effectiveness were met. In principle, it took 6 months to prepare the project. The appraisal missions had
the right skill mix and were adequate. The experienced IDA staff and consultants who took part in the field
missions were also joined by the then Division Chief (Sector Manager) during the preparation mission. The
leader of the IDA preparatory team also traveled to Germany and held discussions with KfW, the German
Development agency that was managing the Waste Management component in Sierra Leone on their future
program for the component. A PPF of US$1.5 million was approved which helped project preparation and
enhanced the initial procurement activities, and by the time the credit was effective, some components were
ready to be disbursed.
During appraisal it was realized that the needs of Freetown was quite substantial and that the
initial study was not carried to the depth required to support a comprehensive rehabilitation of urban
infrastructure and services. A decision was made with the commitment by the Bank to support an initial
project, which would arrest the tide of ongoing deterioration, build the relevant technical and financial
capacity in FCC, while making arrangements for comprehensive studies, which would form the basis of a
follow up project. This was a bold and commendable decision by the team.
- 16-



The Bank team, after the approval of the project, assisted the Government of Sierra Leone and
GVWC to prepare a new Urban Water Supply project (Cr. 2702-SL) that would support a major
rehabilitation of GVWC's water supply system, rehabilitate the existing sewerage system and establish a
low cost sanitation program in Greater Freetown.
7.2 Supervision:
The perfonnance of the Bank in project supervision is rated as Satisfactory. The bank provided
good support to the Government during project implementation. After the project launch workshop,
supervision missions visited Sierra Leone twice a year to monitor the implementation of the project, and
Aide-memoires were left in the field after each mission. The resources and skill mix were adequate.
Performance rating for implementation progress and Development Objective prior to the outbreak of the
war was rated highly satisfactory, and disbursement was ahead of the forecast. Until the outbreak of the
war, there was continuity in the staffing of supervision missions.
The war broke out in May 1997 and the last mission prior to the break-up was in March 1997.
For the rest of 1997 and the greater part of 1998, the situation in Sierra Leone was unstable. Bank
operations were suspended in Sierra Leone and no supervision mission took place. Just as the situation was
getting to normalcy in early 1999, another insurgency broke up in January 1999. In all, there was a total
break in supervision mission for the project for almost two years, and there was a change in task team
leadership during the period. Despite the intermittent security alerts, which had aborted three Bank
supervision missions, the Task Team Leader (TTL) kept regular contact with the project office by
telephone and through their visits to Washington. When the situation stabilized, and on the advise of the
IDA, a Technical and Financial audit of the project was carried out to determine the actual state of the
facilities and the cost involved to complete the outstanding priority components within the available
remaining budget.
The Bank supervision team also assisted in the preparation of the Urban Water Supply project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is rated as satisfactory. The team worked closely with the
Government and other implementing agencies to ensure a satisfactory outcome for the project.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government of Sierra Leone (GoSL) performed well during the preparation of the project.
The speed in which the project was prepared demonstrates the commitment, the Government at the highest
level, had given to improve the quality of life and environmental conditions for the most disadvantaged
groups in Freetown. The Freetown City Council (FCC), being unable to cope with the deteriorating urban
infrastructure, unacceptable level of service delivered by its departments and its weak financial disposition,
requested UNDP's assistance (in 1991) to finance a study for an assessment of the condition of physical
infrastructure and make recommendations for improvement. The Freetown City Council was instrumental
in defining the need areas of the UNDP financed study. The quality of the UNDP financed study, which
was prepared by a local consultant was high and had strong Government ownership, and the GoSL
committed itself to the three studies that were carried out prior to the appraisal of the project. The
Government also mobilized an NGO and other community groups towards the preparation of the project,
and should be commended particularly for organizing visits to the low-income areas, and for facilitating
interactions between the Bank team and residents of these communities. The Govermment conmmitted itself
to honor all compensation and other resettlement issues during the implementation of the project and set up
- 17 -



an initial fund for this purpose prior to negotiations of the credit.
The performance of the Government of Sierra Leone during project preparation is rated as
satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performnance:
The performance of Government is rated as unsatisfactory. The Government did not terminate the
roads contract when IDA disbursements were suspended, and the situation in Sierra Leone had became
unstable, resulting in very high claims by the contractor. Other factors that affected the project are as
follows:
Political situation during implementation:
The Government had been democratically elected to power and had set out to undertaken important
economic and governance reforms, and there was relative improved security situation prevailing in 1996
following the return to civilian democratic rule. The path to economic recovery was however undermined
by the coup d'etat that took place in 1997 and influx of rebels in 1999, and this posed a serious challenge to
Government. The crises were force majeure and there was very little the Government could do.
Counterpart Fund Contribution:
Government contribution of counterpart funds was not adequate and presented a serious setback
for the implementation schedule. As a result of high foreign costs of the bids received for most civil works,
the local costs for these contracts were lower than the appraisal estimates, resulting in reduced
Government contribution. However, payments for the reduced counterpart amount was a big problem for
the local financing sources. The Government however, waived customs duties and taxes on imported
goods, equipment and machinery on the project.
Policy Issues Agreed at Negotiations:
The Government was unsympathetic to the poor financial condition of GVWC and opposed the
implementation of the universal metering program due to political considerations. The ability of GVWC to
achieve their targets depended on the successful implementation of the metering program, and the various
actions of Government delayed the time taken to realize the benefits associated with the water supply
component of the project. This is borne out by the remarkable progress at the tail end of the project when
Government's support was restored, and arrears to GVWC for delivery of water to Government's facilities
was settled. Government's action in meeting other covenants such as resettlement of displaced people in
Kroo Bay including allocation of land and payment of compensations must be commended.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agency is rated satisfactory on the basis of Project Management Expertise, use
of participatory mechanism and compliance with covenants. The offices of SLRA were not left out during
the disturbances, as the place was vandalized, but the personnel kept phone conversation with the IDA, and
visited TTL in Washington. An assessment mission prior to the lifting of disbursement in 1999 found the
project offices functioning.
Delegated Management agreement: Apart from the water component that was implemented by
the Guma Valley Water Company, all the other components were handled by SLRA. Since capacity did
not exist in FCC for the management of their component, SLRA implemented the urban roads and
- 18-



drainage, urban upgrading and market improvement components on behalf of FCC, and the solid waste
management sub-component on behalf of DOHSS. SLRA and FCC signed an agreement, which delegated
all project management responsibilities to SLRA. The solid waste management component was overseen
by the Department of Health and Social Sciences, who were also managing the German financed Solid
Waste project.
Project Management Expertise: The first three years of the project saw a smooth implementation
in SLRA, except accounting problems, during which time certain key components of the project were
completed and handed over. Although the project had the full complement of staff it appears the three-year
period was not sufficient for enough expertise to be imparted to the counterpart staff and the departure of
the expatriate project manager left a vacuum his local counterparts could not fill. The project did not start
with adequate financial management information system and proper accounting system in place.
Compliance with Covenants: Eventually there was full covenant compliance, however progress
reports and audit reports delayed on several occasions and there were several reminders from the IDA.
7.7 Overall Borrower performanlce:
The performance of the borrower was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons of the project are of three types, relating to project preparation, project
implementation, and post-conflict assistance.
i)    Lessons for project preparation
Absence of Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and development strategy
Quick relief investment programs can be successfully designed in spite of their absence from the
CAS, provided there is a strong Bank and borrower commitment. The FIRP did not feature in the CAS,
and IDA funding was additional to the original IDA allocation for Sierra Leone. Furthermore, Bank staff
availed themselves of ongoing studies financed by other development partners in the absence of a sector
development strategy developed with assistance from the Bank.
Freetown City Council (FCC) as key implementing agency
A project that is designed as a quick relief operation, such as the infrastructure improvements of
Freetown, should nevertheless include sufficient activities for the physical outputs and address capacity
issues to ensure sustainability. FCC was the ultimate beneficiary agency in this project, but was hardly any
better prepared at the end of the project to operate and maintain these services than it was at the beginning.
Road Fund
The road fund was established under RRMP, and it was expected that FCC would receive its share
to maintain the roads in Freetown. Arrangements for the road fund allocation to FCC for the maintenance
of local roads should have been made under the project, and FCC should have been assisted to acquire the
capacity to undertake the road maintenance through the private sector.
ii)    Lessons ofproject implementation
- 19 -



Mainstreaming Project Implementation Units
Under the right conditions, a project implementing unit (PMCU) created under a project can be
mainstreamed into the parent organization. This seems to be more likely if the institution is a
revenue-earning entity, or a semi-autonomous body, such as was the case with SLRA, which has absorbed
the project's PMCU into its mainstream on project completion.
Computerized accounting system in project agencies
As this was a multi-sector project with several implementing agencies, a sound accounting and
financial management system should have been included in the project design, and installed in the project
agencies prior to commencement of project implementation. The absence of an accounting system made
reconciliation of project accounts difficult.
iii)    Lessons ofpost conflict assistance
Sound sociopolitical environment
The most important lesson leamed is that there is need for political stability in a country to ensure
economic and infrastructure development. The political crises of 1997 and 1999 brought the project to the
verge of cancellation.  All ongoing contracts were suspended and some completed facilities were
vandalized. The project performance was rated highly satisfactory at the start of the project for both DO
and IP, but following the crisis was rated unsatisfactory.
Minimizing claims due to force majeure
When a country enters what is likely to be a period of long interruption in the implementation of a
project, all the contracts, with the possible exception of those relating to key project implementation staff,
should be terminated and not just suspended. The failure to do so in Sierra Leone resulted in large damage
claims under force majeure, which delayed the resumption of some of the project activities and are still not
settled to this date.
Revision of project objectives and components
When a project emerges from a long period of interruption of implementation, be it because of
natural disaster, civil strife, or the suspension of disbursements, the project objectives and components
should be revised to give first priority to rehabilitating and safeguarding what had already been done
earlier, and then to concentrate on completing the remaining essential components of the project as soon as
possible. The technical and financial audit that was carried out when the suspension was lifted enabled the
borrower to prioritize the activities and to salvage the works within the available budget. Extensions of the
closing date, especially to do additional activities not originally foreseen, should be avoided.
Local consulting industry
As a result of the war, there has been a massive brain drain of technical and financial expertise as
many nationals fled the country. It is important that appropriate incentive structures are put in place to
attract these professionals back into the country.  Future project designs should contribute to the
strengthening of the local construction and consulting industry as a way of creating the incentives for the
- 20 -



return of professionals back to Sierra Leone to support the development efforts.
Future operation
The borrower and the donors should make use of the sector work and the studies that were carried
out under the project for the preparation of future assistance in Freetown. Future operation should also
include the rehabilitation of infrastructure in some secondary towns to encourage the return of the internally
displaced people in Freetown back to where they had come from, thereby reducing the pressure on the
infrastructure facilities in Freetown.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments from Sierra Leone Roads A2ency, Guma Valley Water Company and Freetown
City Council.
Achievement of objectives
Generally, apart from the roads and drainage component (about 70 percent completed), the
infrastructure in Greater Freetown was significantly improved (as attested to by the completed impact
evaluation study) relating to the facilities constructed/rehabilitated under the project (toilets, ablutions, and
rehabilitated markets). Moreover, the technical and financial capacity of the Freetown City Council was
significantly enhanced for operating and maintaining the new facilities put in place. A technical group has
been set up by the Freetown City Council to implement the recommendations of the various master
plans/studies prepared under the project that could be implemented in-house and to propose a future
project, as an outcome of the recommendations of those studies, for possible financing by IDA.
Output by Components
Physical Objectives: A total of 17 toilets and ablution facilities, as planned, were constructed in
the six selected cormmunity/slum areas of Freetown, handed over to the FCC and have been in use by the
various communities since 1996. Six of the busiest city markets were amply rehabilitated, including the
structural walls and floors, handed over to FCC and these have been in use since 1995. An impact
evaluation study of the six rehabilitated markets had the following important findings:
o  there is an upward trend in the volume and frequency of usage of the six rehabilitated markets as they
functioned after their rehabilitation and handing over for community use;
o  only 42 percent of the market users were satisfied with the adequacy of the rehabilitated market
structures; however, over 60 percent of traders were satisfied with the new stalls, their location in the
markets and their dimensions;
o  75 percent of the market traders were satisfied with not only of the availability of the toilets but also
with the cleanliness of the market surroundings; and
o  the ratio of buyers to sellers was, on average, 8:1. This provides evidence of the use of the facilities
below capacity.
Fifty garbage bins, two skip trucks and two monitoring vehicles (with spares) were procured to
-21 -



support the solid waste management activities of the Environmental Division of the Ministry of Health and
Sanitation. By the first quarter of 1997 (before the coup took place) Freetown was recognized as a clean
city by the Missions from the Bank at that time.
Fifteen kilometers (out of a total of 25) of access roads were rehabilitated and paved in the
Brookfields, Congo Market and Ginger Hall areas; the remaining 10 kilometers had all received well-built
roadside and storm drains and compacted sub-base and base structures. The impact of the completed roads
and drains was immediately felt as there was a ready flow of traffic within the communities they served,
there was smooth access to the communal facilities and a general increase in passenger comfort using these
access roads.
About 95 percent of the planned universal metering program for all consumers was installed; 95
percent of the water supply distribution program was put in place; communications and transport facilities
were provided to assist GVWC's operations; the accounting and billing systems were improved and a leak
detection and repair program was also established to minimize systems losses. The benefits, including the
net saving from implementing the leak detection component could be worked out after the installation of
bulk meters, flow loggers and connection meters.
A total of 7 studies/master plans were prepared under the project including the Storm Drainage and
Sewerage, Traffic Management, Solid Waste Management Studies, Water Master Plan, Organizational and
Financial Review each of FCC and GVWC and Structure Plan of Greater Freetown. Recommendations of
these studies/master plans could form the bases of an FIRP 2.
Financial Objectives: Out of the Credit amount of SDR18.4 million (US$26.0 million equivalent),
US$24,347,542 was disbursed. The undisbursed balance of US$1,652,458 included amounts in the
SLRA's Special Account of US$386,543 and in the GVWC Special Account of US$192,000. Presuming
the total withdrawal requests amounting to US$ 1,027,543 was paid by the grace period ending October 31,
2001, only US$624,915 (SDR500,000 equivalent) would remain unutilized in the Credit.
Institutional Objectives: The Project Management and Coordination Unit (PMCU) set up within
SLRA (initially headed by an expatriate for 3 years and by a Sierra Leonean for 5 years) managed the
project satisfactorily. The Project Steering Committee (chaired by FCC) held regular meetings to discuss
project matters and, in the process, guided and advised the implementing agencies (SLRA and GVWC) in
the way and manner in which the project was to be implemented.
A Maintenance Unit (MU) was set up in the FCC and a Chief Municipal Engineer recruited to
operate and manage it. All the required vehicles, equipment, tools and materials to support the Unit were
procured by SLRA Offices and Worksyard facilities were created at the Black Hall Road Worksyard from
where the MU staff would operate.
The design of the project was appropriate for achieving the objectives/outputs and the
performance/monitoring indicators were reasonably well quantified for judging the achievement of
objectives/outputs in the project documents. However, the timings allocated to the achievement of a number
of targets were rather ambitious, explaining why a lot of the planned targets were overrun.
Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
Factors outside the control of government and implementing agency
- 22 -



The implementation of the FIRP progressed well from 1993 until the coup d'etat of May 25, 1997
occurred. Generally, SLRA's records indicated that, by the time the coup took place, disbursements of the
Credit funds was about 65 percent - indicative of approximately the same percentage of physical
completion of the project components.
As a result of the force majeure events disbursements relating to the project were suspended,
resulting into the suspension of all on-going contracts at that time. The effects of the coup were substantial:
the respective contractors' facilities at False Cape and at the Black Hall Road Works Yard were vandalized
and a considerable amounts of construction materials stolen from these facilities; the rainy season of 1997
(May - October) moved unquantified amounts of storm water and debris that destroyed property boundary
walls and dwelling houses in the most vulnerable parts of the City where road and drainage construction
works were being carried out. All of these adverse effects engendered compensation events which, because
of prevailing circumstances, could not be addressed by the Borrower.
Between June 1998 (when the suspension was lifted) and January 1999 (when rebels once struck
Freetown) virtually no implementation activities could go on. During the few weeks that they invaded the
City a considerable number of dwelling houses and public buildings and utilities were destroyed; in the
process, power and telephone lines and water supply services were curtailed thereby bringing virtually all
socioeconomic activities to a halt. These activities could only resume in the second half of 1999.
Factors generally subject to government control
Macroeconomic policies and conditions, sector polices and govemance during the respective
regimes of the NPRC and the SLPP were intact and under the control of those regimes. Both regimes
(especially the military government of the NPRC) were commended for their firm commitmnents in meeting
all their counterpart contributions to the implementation of the project; this, to a large measure, contributed
toward the success of the implementation of the FIRP. However, corruption was at its peak during the war
years (between 1992 - 2000) as the nation and its people fought for survival; like in most countries this
nuisance factor is very difficult for any government to put under effective control.
Costs and Financing: A reallocation of the Credit funds was carried out three times during the life
of the project. The summnary below gives DCA and final reallocation figures:
Category                                 DCA Allocation      Final Alocation
(SDR Equivalent)    (SDR Equivalent)
Civil Works
Comnnunity/Slum Upgrading                   780,000             520,000
Market Improvement                        1,270,000             652,000
Roads                                     4,590,000           7,600,000
Water Supply                              1,560,000             916,000
Equipment, Vehicles and Materials
SLRA                                       430,000              380,000
FCC                                         570,000             550,000
GVWC                                      2,050,000           2,470,000
Technical Assistance & Training
- 23 -



SLRA                                      3,250,000           3,553,000
FCC                                        430,000               50,000
GVWC                                        570,000            1,370,000
Refund of the PPF Advance                 1,060,000             339,000
Unallocated                               1,840,00                 Nil
18,400,000          18.400.000
The original allocation of SDR4.59 million (US$6.5 million equivalent) for the roads component
was increased to SDR7.6 million (US$10.7 million equivalent). The increase was necessary so as to redress
the shortfall in this important component and ensure that a total of about 28 kilometers of access roads in
the six selected community/slum areas were rehabilitated to standard. To make this possible a reallocation
of the original allocations to market improvement and also to technical assistance and training to FCC was
made. GVWC's allocation for implementing their technical assistance and training component was
increased to meet their commitments for design and supervision of the pipe works and mains laying in the
city.
Sustainability
As mentioned earlier, the successive govemments of the NPRC and SLPP were totally comiitted
to their counterpart contribution to this project despite the severe limitations posed by the ten-year civil war
that ultimately crippled the country's economy; both admninistrations should be commended for that.
Although the economic climate in which the project was implemented was not that conducive, based on the
reasons advanced erstwhile, the technical and financial and environmental aspects were reasonably viable.
The social impact, following an impact evaluation assessment conducted as soon as the market
improvement and toilet and ablution facilities were completed and handed over to FCC, was significant.
After these facilities have been handed over for community use it became evident that traders at some
rehabilitated markets displayed their wares over the roadsides instead of within the (market) precincts. It
also became clear that the city would require the creation of additional markets in the event that the
population of Freetown had trebled partly as a result of large movements of displaced people from the
provinces to the capital city.
Local participation at project design was insignificant due to the fact that it was a quick fix
strategy to arrest deterioration and to put in place medium and long-term modalities to improve the
socioeconomic conditions especially of the most disadvantaged population. Nevertheless, to enhance local
participation during the implementation process, public awareness programs were designed and
implemented through the electronic and press media. One significant omission in the project design was the
non-provision of management fees for SLRA and GVWC to assist with the implementation of the project;
it is hoped that such provision would be made in future projects.
Recommendations of the master plans/studies (seven in all) prepared under the auspices of the
project could form the basis for designing an FIRP 2. A technical group was set up by the FCC in April
2001 to review these recommendations and, based on the outcome of that review, prepare a project
proposal for consideration and funding from an extemal source(s).
Bank and Borrower's Performance
- 24 -



Bank
The identification of the project was consistent with the government's development strategy and
priorities and the Bank's assistance was consistent with these.
The project was pre-appraised in February 1993 and thereafter appraised in March/April 1993 and
the efforts of the two teams should be commended for a project well designed especially at a time when
Sierra Leone desperately needed to reverse the existing economic and infrastructure trends at that time. The
Bank supported the Government's structural adjustments and economic recovery programs through a
reconstruction import credit approved by the Board on April 14, 1992.This policy helped restore the
Government's capacity to provide essential services and to manage economic reforms.
The Bank conducted regular supervision missions throughout the life of the project though there
were breaks in these efforts during the interregnums engendered by the war. The project implementation
progress was reported adequately and implementation problems identified early and addressed proactively.
In the process sufficient attention was paid to the project's development impact.
The successive missions constituted teams with sufficient mix (in terms of quantity and quality) for
adequate supervision of all components and sub-components of the project. Consultants were hired during
those periods to undertake short-term consultancies for addressing certain aspects of the project i.e. review
of the master plan studies prepared, modalities for setting of the maintenance unit for the FCC, preparation
of the ICR etc. Sufficient timings and plans were allotted to each of these. Consultants were also recruited
to prepare detailed engineering drawings and undertake the supervision of the works.
Borrower
The successive governments assisted fully with the preparation of the project.
Its macroeconomic and sector policies provided an enabling environment for the project design and
implementation. By the time the project became credit effective on September 13, 1993, Government had
established, by parliamentary legislature, the Sierra Leone Roads Authority with a fully-fledged Board and
a very capable Director General. Alongside these arrangements, SLRA, with the advise of the Bank, set up
a Project Management and Coordination Unit (PMCU) to assist the Director General with the
implementation of the FIRP. Initially, the PMCU constituted an expatriate Project Manager, a Sierra
Leonean counterpart Project Manager, a Project Engineer/Procurement Specialist, an Accountant and two
support members of staff. At the end of the expatriate's contract in 1996 till the end of the project in June
2001 the unit was managed entirely by local staff.
As mentioned earlier on government, in the face of all economic adversities caused by the
prolonged civil war, met its counterpart contribution to a very great extent. The only backlog that accrued,
amounting to Le200 million (US$400,000 equivalent) in 1996, was cleared eventually by the year 2000.
A Director General a civil engineer and a capable manager headed the SLRA, the implementing
agency. The PMCU that was set up to assist him provided management skills of a higher order that handled
project components of a multifaceted nature.
The initial problems emanated from the difficulties in obtaining customs clearance of vehicles,
equipment and materials procured and shipped from abroad. However, with the intervention of Bank
- 25 -



missions these problems were resolved well before the coup d'etat occurred on May 25, 1997. There were
some problems associated with the rehabilitation of the 6 principal city markets and construction of the 17
toilets and ablution blocks in that there were delays in the conveyance of timber from up-country sources
where there were security problems. These problems were overcome later. SLRA also faced difficulties
with the acquisition of pieces of land where the toilet and ablution facilities would be constructed.
Lessons Learned
One of the important lessons learned were the advantages of early procurement processing. This
was very glaring in the case of the Urban Roads and Drainage contract signed between Messrs.
Met-Chern/BAO and SLRA on January 23, 1995. The severe delay in the implementation of this
component was basically as a result of badly managed overseas procurement arrangements by the
contractor. The delays in the completion of the rehabilitation of the Blackhall Road Worksyard for
providing accommodation for the FCC Maintenance Unit (MU) also caused significant delays in the setting
up of this Unit.
Another important lesson learnt were the frustrations encountered while SLRA implemented the
FIRP on the behalf of another institution. Even though such institutions would not have the capacity to
implement a project of such complexity there always came into play the animosity toward the implementing
agency carrying out the functions on their behalf This is one reason why there were several wrangling
between FCC and SLRA over matters that would have been resolved amicably. The capacity of FCC
should be built up to handle their statutory functions gradually. Another important lesson leant was the
capacity of project implementation units. The better qualified and experienced they are, the smaller the size
of the unit is and the better equipped they are, the better their output.
Time allocations to contract periods were usually overoptimistic. These created several delays in
the completion of contract tasks. For instance, the consultants designed a timeframe of 24 months for roads
and drainage rehabilitation in the six-commrnunity/slum areas of Freetown without adequate site condition
feasibility studies. The presence of hardpan laterite at virtually all of the sites and the fact that the
contractor had to cope with the construction of roadside drains in these areas created severe delays in the
project. Even utility relocation at the various project sites created a lot of delays.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
10. Additional Information
- 26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/lmpact Indicators
Urban Indicators
Improve quality of life Increase in total    Bn Le                19                 24              Le 465 m      Originnal entries in
in depressed areas  property values                                                                                Le Bn. seem to be an
error. Actual values
in 1994/95 was Le
420 m.
Improve            Revenue from            Millikon Le.         419.6           Not Available          315         Every trader pays Le
environmental      Property Rate                                                                                   200/day. Total
conditions in markets                                                                                              income from market
._____________     ______________   for 2000  Le315m.
Increase in rental     1000 Le/day            326                978               987.9
value of stalls    .
Improve efficiency   Decrease                                     50                 35                 NA         To be measured
and delivery of water unaccounted for                                                                              under UWSP.
supply             water
Sustainability
Capacity Building    Establish FCC            km                  0                  50                 NA         Maintenance Unit
capability for Local                                                                            established and
Roads                                                                                           p personnel in place.
GVWC - Improved Amcounts Receivable        days                183                60                 164
revenue collection
_ Returns on net                                3                  80                22.8
average fixed assets
in operation
Debt Service       Debt Service              Times                1.5                1.5               0.87
l ________________  Coverage                                                        414
Undertake studies to Man-month            Staff months            0414                                  350        All studies
provide a basis for  Consultancy                                                                                   completed under
planning    _     __   _=__    ___                                                                                 improved efficiency.
Output Indicators
Metered                               No.                      1,600                      10,788                     10,599
Connections
Increase number of                    No.                       250                        750                        774
standpipesl
Extend supplies to                    km                          0                         21                         28
additional area
Markets                               No.                         0                          6                          6
Rehabilitated                                        l_l
Communities                           No.                         0                          6                          6
upgraded                                             l_l
Roads Rehabilitated                   Km                          0                        27.5            |           24
- 27 -



STUDIES AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Organization and Financial Review of   Make recommendations for improvement to  Completed  Findings not implemented
FCC                                   oercome organezatonal, financial and
operational problems of FCC and to
prepare a time bound action plan
Structural Plan and Investment Program  Prepare a strategic planning framework to  Status of study Information available indicate that the entire
Preparation Study                     determine the medium term and longer    not clear   assignment could not be completed, due to
term growth needs of the City to enable the       the events of May 25, 1997. Subsequently a
preparation of development programs                status of Force Majeure was formally
hich will address among other things             declared in accordance with the
infrastructure and institutional development       Consultants contract with SLRA. Following
needs.                                             the return to normal condibons in May 1999
he Consultant submitted a proposal for
completion of the outstanding works. The
original budget for the assignment was
US$888,645 of which US$744,788 had been
spent as at the time of the insurrection. The
proposal for continuation was in the sum of
US$289,477 however the Client appeared
content with work done and did not authorize
resumption as proposed by the Consultant.
Solid and Liquid Waste Management   Identify the most appropriate technical  Completed  Findings not implemented.
study in Freetown                     solution for the Greater Freetown Solid            This study was implemented by GOPA,
Waste and Night Soil management and to             which was in a way associated with the
determine optimal operational,                     previous system financed by the GTZ. A
rganizational and legislative/administrative      review would be required to address critical
structure needed to meet the requirements         institutinal issues which still persist. The
of this system.                                    current situation is so critical that an urgent
intervention is needed in this area to
forestall the outbreak of an epidemic.
Organization and Financial Management Make recommendations for improvement to  Completed  Certain recommendations have been
Review of GVWC                        overcome organizational, financial and             implemented by GVWC.
operational problems of GVWC and to
prepare a time bound action plan.
Traffic Management Study for Freetown Undertake traffic surveys and prepare  Completed  Some of the recommendations were
inventories of the transport system, land          implemented for the rehabilitation of the
use and soico-economic profile of the City         CBD roads. However major
to serve as a basis for recommending               recommendations addressing the problems
medium term improvement plans for the              of east-west mobility await future projects.
traffic and transport facilities including othe
measures to educate and enforce traffic
_    _   ~~~ules._
Freetown Sewerage and Drainage Study To prepare a sewerage and drainage      Completed  Findings not implemented
Master Plan for Freetown
Project Manager for FIRP              To establish and provide leadership for  Completed  The assignment was completed during the
co-ordination and management of the                first three years of the project. Subsequent
project                                            project implementation was managed by
counterpart staff trained under the project.
Recruitment of a Municipal Engineer and Assignment was to hire an intemational  Completed  Two previous experts could not complete
Establishment of FCC Maintenance Unit expert to help establish maintenance                heir assignments due to the insurrection.
capability, help procure plant and                 Recently a local expert has been identified
equipment, train local staff, supervise            and has started putting in place the
construction of a maintenance yard and put         necessary arrangements,
in place arragement for operating and
maintenaning the facilities provided under
the Project
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million    US$ million
Urban Upgrading                                        8.13            3.44              42
Rehabilitation/Upgrading of Access Roads               7.75           11.22             145
Water Supply Component                                 7.01            6.86              98
Institutional Support to FCC/SLRA                      3.13            1.17              34
Technical Assistance                                   2.82            4.76             169
PPF Refund                                              1.50
Total Baseline Cost                                   30.34           27.45
Physical Contingencies                                2.90
Price Contingencies                                   2.76
Total Project Costs              36.00           27.45
Total Financing Required               36.00           27.45
GoSL contributions on the payment of customs duties and taxes, and that of operating cost have not been included in the actual
estimates.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       ICB           NCB        Mthod2          N.B.F.      Total Cost
NCB          Other
1. Works                      13.74          6.48          0.00          0.00         20.22
(9.74)        (3.66)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (13.40)
2. Goods                       6.20          0.00          1.76          0.00         7.96
(4.60)        (0.00)        (1.03)        (0.00)       (5.63)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          0.00          6.60         6.60
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (6.60)       (6.60)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.41         0.41
(0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.30)       (0.30)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.83         0.83
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.07)       (0.07)
Total                       19.94         6.48          1.76          7.84         36.02
(14.34)       (3.66)        (1.03)        (6.97)       (26.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
- 29 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement MethodI
Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB            Other'         N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                          11.22           3.69            0.00           0.00           14.91
(10.66)         (2.95)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (13.61)
2. Goods                          2.73            0.00            2.56           0.00           5.29
(2.45)         (0.00)          (2.30)         (0.00)         (4.75)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00            6.56           0.00           6.56
(0.00)         (0.00)          (6.56)         (0.00)         (6.56)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            0.22           0.00           0.22
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.20)         (0.00)         (0.20)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.49            0.00           0.00           0.49
(0.00)         (0.44)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.44)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          13.95           4.18            9.34           0.00           27.47
_   (13.11)          (3.39)         (9.06)          (0.00)        (25.56)  _
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
|:   :                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Percentage of Appraisa
Component               Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA       Govt.      CoF.       IDA        Govt.     CoF.    IDA    Govt.  CoF.
1. Urban Upgrading
(a) Improvement of         3.80       1.32      0.16       0.53       0.18       0.02      13.9   13.6   12.5
Deprived Settlements
(b) Market Improvement     1.79       0.62      0.07       0.66       0.23       0.03     36.9   37.1   42 .9
(c) Solid Waste            0.26       0.09      0.02       0.23       0.08       0.01     88.5   88.9   5(1.0
Management
2.Rehabilitation           5.58       1.93      0.24       7.72       2.70       0.32     138.4  139.9  133.3
/Upgrading of Access
Roads
3. Water Supply            5.05       1.75      0.21       3.61        1.25      0.15     71.5   71.4   71.4
Component
4. Institutional Support to
FCC/SLRA
(a) FCC                    1.68       0.58      0.07       0.48       0.17       0.02     28.6   29.3   28.6
(b) SLRA                   0.58       0.20      0.02       0.37        0.13      0.02     63.8   65.0   100.0
5. Technical Assistance    2.03       0.71      0.08       4.75        1.65      0.02     234.0  232.4   25.0
6. PPF Refund              1.08       0.37      0.05                                       0.0    0.0      0 0
GoSL contribution on the payment of customs duties and taxes, and that of operating costs have not been included in the actual
estimates.
- 30 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
12/10/1992                  6   2 Mission Leaders (I Chief
AF41N and 1 staff from AF61N),
3 Consultants (2 Municipal
Engineers and I rating and
valuation expert), I Sanitary
Engineer
03/03/1993                  4   1 Municipal Engineer, I Civil
Engineer, I Environmental
Specialist, I Sr. Operations
Officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/05/1993                  4   1 TL, I Financial Analyst, 2
Consultants
( IMunicipal/Civil Engineer
and I Environmental
Specialist)
Supervision
07/29/1993                  1   1 TL (Principal Operations        HS            HS
Officer)
10/17/1993                  4   1 TL, I Financial Analyst, 2      HS            HS
Consultants (I Municipal/Civil
Engineer and I Procurement
Specialist)
12/18/1993                  2   1 TL, I Financial Analyst         HS            HS
03/09/1994                  2   1 TL, I Financial Analyst         HS            HS
11/04/1994                  6   1 TL, 2 Financial Analyst, I      S             HS
Sanitary Engineer, I Consultant
(Municipal Engineer), I Division
Chief
05/04/1995                  1   1 TL                               S            HS
11/30/1995                  2   1 TL, I Sanitary Engineer         HS            HS
08/15/1996                  2   1 TL, I Urban Planner              S            HS
03/09/1997                  3   1 TL, I Financial Analyst, I       S             S
Highway Engineer
10/23/1999                  2   1 TL, I Consultant (Civil         U             U
Engineer)
10/13/2000                  2   1 TL, I Municipal Engineer        U             U
03/31/2001                  2   1 TL, I Municipal Engineer         U            U
ICR
07/22/2001                  2    1 TL, I Municipal Engineer        U             U
(b) Staff:
- 32 -



Stage of Project Cycle                  _ Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               41.1                         91.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                     23.6                        50.2
Supervision                              74.24                       247.4
ICR                                       3.51                        28.1
Total                                   142.45                       417.4
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                        O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
O Physical                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                               O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
O Gender                           OH OSUOM ON ONA
El Other (Please specify)          OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
O Private sector development              0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
CB Public sector management              0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
B Other (Please specify)                 OH  OSUOM  ON  0 NA
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
. (HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
N Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS   O U  O HU
M Overall                                            OHS * S O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
? Preparation                                        OHS OS  O u  O HU
I Government implementation performance              O HS O S  * U  0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   O U  O HU
F  Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U  O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    FIRP ICR Mission Aide Memoire, July 15-22, 2001.
2.    FIRP Mid-Term Review Aide Memoire, November 30 - December 15, 1995
3.    Impact Evaluation Studies of 6 Upgraded markets in Freetown, September 1997
4.    Roads and Drainage Component - Financial and technical Audit - 1999
5.    Claims Specialist's Report - 1999
- 36 -



- 37 -



