Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11791-SL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FREETOWN INlASTRUCTuRE REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAY 11, 1993
t_~~~ ~ ', t.,... ' ' '   8 1
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
TIis document has a resricted distribution aN  may be used by recipens only In the performance of
their officii duties. Its contents may not oeise be dicosed without Wodd Bank authoizon.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENIS
Currency Unit          =           Leone (Le)
US$1.00                            Le 550
Le 1.00                            US$0.002
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                       3.28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha)        =           2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      =           0.65 miles (mi)
1 liter (1)                       0.220 Imperial gallons
1 Imperial gallon (Ig)    =       4.5451
1 cubic meter (m)     =           220 Ig
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBD             Central Business District
CDC             Commonwealth Development Corporation
CPI             Consumer Price Index
DOFDEP          Department of Finance, Development and Economic
Planning
DOHSS           Department of Health and Social Services
DOIA            Department of Internal Affairs
DOLEP           Department of Labor, Energy and Power
DOLHE           Department of Land, Housing and the Environment
DOW             Department of Works
FCC             Freetown City Council
FIRP            Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
GOSL            Government of Sierra Leone
GVWC            Guma Valley Water Company
MU              Maitenance Unit
NGO             Non Government Organization
PMCU            Project Management and Coordination Unit
PPAR            Project Performance Audit Report
SLRA            Sierra Leone Roads Authority
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Sierra Leone       July 1 to June 30
GVWC                             November 1 to October 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REEOWN INFRASTIUCU RERIABATION PRQJF
TAML OF CONTENT
CM=  DANDEQJECt3 SM            ARY  ................................  i
I~~~~~~....... n<R......... ............... I 
U. THEURBAN                 ...............                         *        *    2
A. SectorOv ewvlm ...............                                         .  2
1. Population and U zaion  ............                  ........   2
2. Urban              i  Freetowm  ....................                3
3. Instiuonal Framework for Sector Deve!opment and Management ...  7
B. Sector Development Strategy ............................    9
C. Bak Involvement in the Sector .............................    9
m. HEPROJECT ...................                                                     10
A. Ptoject Qlngb d Fornulation .............................  10
B. Projec Objectves .....................................  10
C. Projed Decdption ................                . . . . 10
D. Project Cpon tdnt .13
E. FiningPa ................. 14
IV. PMPLEMENTAIM   ................................   16
A. mpleAgoiesandResponsbfies .....................  16
1. Project   l ntation                ...Ar m . ................  16
2. SlerraLeoneRoadsAutority(SLRA)                   .        .        16
This report is based on doe finding of Dank appaisa and preapprasa mission which visted Sierr
Lan  in M/Ail 1993 and Feray 1993, epectivdy. Ih aris  mission comprised
Moms Nguyen Ti (Principal Operais Offie and Mio Leder), Mrk Mabnda (Fiail
Anayst), Steve Amanng-Yankon and Antoy Amu (Consulban). The
led by Mr. Nguyme Tim and coWmrd Mes. Mat Mabad, Hinsh Ueno (ecomut), Pew
Dawes, Stioe Anoenin-Ynk  and Anthoy Anmuz (Consultants). Moem Main Betuud and Amo
Dlbt acted as peer revkw     Mr Pez  San Juan pmvided secretai support Mr. James Writ
and Mr. Edwin Lm ar the managin Dsion Chief ad Depatment Director, spectively, fo th
coo.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be ued by recipients only in the perfomance
of their offica duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



3. GumValleyWatwrCompany (GVWC) ...................  17
4. Freetown City Couni  FCC)  .........................  18
S. Departmea of HealthandSSocaServices .          .................  19
B. Status of ProJect Preparation . ...1.9. ...... ..........  19
C. Project hnplemenaon Schedueo  . * * * * * * 4 * * * * * * *...... ^.
D. Prcuwmnt    ....                    ...... *t  ..              ......  20
E. Disbusements . .....              ........................  23
F. PojeAonig and Auditig .........  ....................... .  24
G. ProjectReporting Monlt           andSupervsn ................... 24
H. Environmena  Aspects            ..................................  25
V. GVWCS ENANC            .......................................  26
A. PastFinancalPeform¢ance  ..........4          4.....................  26
B. Wat  Tarifs .........................................  28
C. BilhingandCollection . ..................................   30
D. Accouning  d Auditing .....................  ... ... ********   30
E. GVWC'sFaancing Plan         .................................  30
P. Financial Projecions .............4..         .....................    32
VI. PROJECT JILTIMCAlOND ANRISKS  ...................................  33
A. ProjectBenefits .       .       .....................................  33
B. Povety Alleviation .......                 .      .................  34
C. Economic Anlysis .          ....................................   35
D. Project Risks ..................4               ....................  36
'V. AGRE.....REACH..AND                                       ...... * ........ 36
A. Agneents Reached  ......... ..........  36
B. Recommendation ............... 39
ANNE=9
2-1    Urban Sector Profile
2-2    Sia Lene Populaton 1990-2000
2-3    Household nome in Community Upgradi  Area
24    TOR  - Oanand Fiil Review of FCC
2-5    TOR-StructSue Pln for Greatr Frnow
3-1    Detailed Project Decpton
3-2    TORs - Review Study on Solid Waet Maupmen  in Greate Fetown
3-3    TORs - Trdfic Managemnt Study for Frtwn
3-4    Establishmn of Ma nace Unk wthin FCC
3-S    TORs - Municipal Efgineer
3-6    Deled Projec Cost Esimates
4-1    SLRA - Orgnizatn Chart
4-2    TORs - Projec Mn r
4-3    Projec Managemet and Coordinationi Unik



4-4    GVWC - Orgnization Chart
4-5   FCC - Orgaization Chart
4-6   Project Implementation Schedule
4-7    DeUails of Procurement Arrgement
4-8 Estdmated Disbursement Schedule
4-9   Supervision Plan and Key Performace Indicators
4-10   E   ro  nalImpact As      nt and Mitgation Plan
5-1    GVWC - Inome Staements, 1982-1992
S-2    GVWC - Balane Sheet, 1982-1992
S-3    GVWC - Funds Flow Staements, 1982-1992
54    GVWC - History of Water Tariffs
5-S    GVWC - Projected Income Statements, 1993-2000
5-6 GVWC - Projected Balance Sheets, 1993-2000
5-7    GVWC - Projected Funds Flow Statements, 1993-2000
5-S    GVWC - Assumptions for Financial Projections
6-1   Economic Analysi
7-1   Documents on the Project File
IBRD No. 24740   Proposed Project Areas In Freetwn
IBRD No. 24741R Guma Valley Water Company - Water Supply System



n'OWN             1TANQN R0
CRED1T AND pRo  SR
BReublic of Sierra Loeo
Sierra Leone Roa6 \thit (SULA); Guma Valley Wtr
Company (GVWCQ; I reetown City Council (FCC); and
Department of Helth and Social Services (DOHSS)
Amont                     SDR 18.40 million (US$26.0 million equivalent)
TmM:                      Standard IDA, with 40 years murity
:doft  TMM                SDR 13.45 million (US$19.0 mifflion equivalent) of the Credit
would be made avable from the Goverment to SLRA as grant.
Ihe rmining SDR 4.95 million (US$7.0 milion equivalnt)
would be onlent from the Govenment to GVWC for 20 years
icluding a grace period of five years at Bank's standard variable
interest rate. GVWC would bear the foreign exchange risk.
]!roEt oisd RK            Ih. prposed project comprises five components: (i) urban
upgradg, including the improvement of: six selected
community/slum areas by providing roadfbooat  and drainge,
wate supply, toilet, sanitary and solid waste disposal facilities;
six city ceter markets by providing water supply, toilet and
ablu   facities, garb    collection and disposal facilies and
rpairs to market building stucrs; and solid waste operation
and management; QQi) rehabiitatk'n/upgrading of accss roads in
the project areas; (iii) improvement of GVWC's water supply
system and operations by reducing water leakage, carrying out a
metering and connection program; (iv) strengtheing ntitutional
capability of SLRA to manage and coordinate the implementation
of the project, and Freetown City Council's capacity to carry out
routine maitenace of roads and other infrastructurl facilities;
and (v) tehical assistce including studies to address longer-
term Issues concerning the in*astructural development of Greater
Freetown, solid waste management, water supply and seweage,
organitional and fincial review of FCC and traffic
management In the City.
Benefits:                  he project will provide essential infrastructre to support
economic growth in Greater Freetown and improve living
conditions of low-income households. In particular, the
community/slum upgrading component will improve the health and
living conditions of some 96,000 residents in the six selected



i
ar. lhe market upgadWing compoent will direcdy beneit te
health and hygien of al uses, possibly 25% of the city
population, enhance the eonomic activities of market traders, and
inacr   the revenue base of FCC  The toads component woudd
provide urgenly needed improvements to urban rods and
roadside drains, which wUi impove traffic circulation, reduce
damage to vehicles, improve pedestrian safety and circulation and
reduce edirome   degradation caused by uncontrolled flows of
surfco watr. The water supply component would improve the
operational ffciency of the existng system; strengther the
tecdnical and commeri operato  of GVWC; and emsue a
suply of potable wat to the residents of beneficiary alum areas
and upgraded markets, directly benfting the poorest residents.
Instional capacity to be developed within FCC will help sustain
the infastrucre facilities in the City including those provided
under the project.
Ria6:                     The mah risk is assoaed with the capacity of the implementing
agencies to manage the imple a    of a nber of sectoral
projecs in parallel. While GVWC, with its long history of
capable techicl performance, is expected to manage well the
implemention of the wat supply copnoent, SLRA will require
support to implement the rest of the project. The performmce of
the h-roject Mmagement and Coordination Unit (PMCU/FIRP),
which was set up within SLRA (reportin directly to Its Director
General) just prior to credit negotiations, would be critical to the
success of the proposed project. The recent appointment of the
Project Manager to head this Unit and the appointment of its key
staff (ocal countpart Assistant Project Manager.
Engineer/Procurement Specialist and Project Accountant) prior to
credit effectiveness would minimize this major risk. Another risk
is related to the availability of countepart funding, whih the
Goverment has agreed to makw an int  deposit of Le 200
million and quarterly disbursements into a project account to be
established prlor to credit effectiveness.



In
idec COMM=                                      USS Million Equivalent
La& Ala    Eagin           in
I. Urban Upgrading
O)      -------emel of Deprived Swlenms  2.65         2.63         5.28
(H) Mar"etwopwent                        1.63         0.85         2.48
(I) Sol"4 Waftm                           -
Sub-tot                              4.28         3.85         8.13
it. Rebtab atlon/gadi of Accs Roads          3.63         4.12         7.75
m. Water Supply Component                    3.81         3.20        7.01
Iv. nsttonl support
(I) To FCC                               0.59         1.74         2.33
(i) To SLRA                              0.09         0.71         0.80
V. Technical Assistance                     0.28          2.54        2.82
VI PPF Re1ind                                  -          L50         LaQ
B.as Cost Estimate                      12.68        17.66        30.34
Physical Conteci                         1.27         1.63         2.90
Price Co    cies                        J S1
Total Project Cost                      J520
Fl2f  Pla:
US$ Million Equivalent
d          Foreign        Iatai
Govemnment                           9.30          -           9.30
FCC                                  0.10          -           0.10
GVWC                                 0.60          -           0.60
IDA                                              20.80        26.0
Total                                 20         20L Q
madmed Dibureet
EDA W 1Yt
US$ Million Equivalent
Anna                                  4.5   6.5   7.6  4.7   2.7
Cumulative                            4.5  11.0  18.6  23.3  26.0
I Jcldg duties nd asoigUSS7.4 =  i  quivalent



iv
r:guJgjRaejf RWnm
Community/Slum Upgrading                21%
Market Iprovement                       13%
Leakage Reduction                       35%
Access Roads Rehabilitation/Upgrding    47%
Combined Reur                           34%
Ma: IBRD No. 24740         Freetowa and Environs - Project Areas
IRD No. 24741R    Gums Valley Water Company - Water Supply System



:ErOWL INRrU,1t R EfiUDNAli C=E
1.1   Sierra Leone is endowed with substantal mineral resources, ample cultivable agdcultura
land and rich fbsheies. However, as a result of pt mismanagnt of resources and inadequae
development effors, the majort of its people live in  tme poerly with a per capita income of
about US$240 in 1990/91. It is classified as one of the least developed- countries ty the United
Nations. Sim,e the lato '970s, Govermment Intitus have dediorated and have limited
capabilit-  -llver even the most basic services. Most iunracture systems have similarly
deteriocrd to a point of =ar colapse. T  livg conditions fr uban residents, particulaly In
the capital, Freetown, are espcialy difficult and their quality of life, economic opportmities and
environmental conditions are extemely poor.
1.2 In December 1989, tc reverse past trends, the Goveranment embarked on a far-reaching
reform pogram, aimed at stabilization and strucur adjustment of the economy. Significant
reform measures have been succesuy Implemened, including liberaization of the exchange
rate, deconol of commercial bak lendg rates and substa    increaes in other interest rates,
tregthening of revenue collction and ependiture controls, liberiizton of domestic pricing
and trade and revamping of natural rsources policies. In ealy 1992, the Government
commenced a further program of economic recovery and structural adjustment with the support of
international agencies including IDA.
1.3   IDA has actively supported the Govrnent's structural adjustment and economic.
recovery program through a reconstruction import credit (Cr. 2352-SL) approved by the Board on
April 14, 1992. This policy-based credit has helped to restore the Government's capacity to
provide essenti services and to manage economic reforms. It was followed by two investment
credits, the first for the rehabilitation of the power supply and distribution aproved by the Board
on April 21, 1992 (Cr.2356SL) ad the second for tehabilitation and manance of the roads
system approved on Decmber 22, 1992 (Cr.2451-SL), and a technical assisnce credit (Cr.
2435-SL) approved on November 19, 1992.
1.4 The Government has requested IDA to finance a project to Improve the quality of life and
environmeal conditions for the most disadvantaged groups in Freetown. Ithe proposed project
would meet this objective by providing essential Infrastructure including roads and drainage, solid
waste collection, water supply and sanitation in six areas identified as the most deprived in the
city, and carrying out badly needed structural repairs and environmenal improvements to six of
main city markets. It would help improve the water supply opetions of the Guma Valley Water
Company (GVWC) by reducing water leakage and carrying out a metering and connection
program. It would also help establish an institutional capability within the Freetown City Council
(FCC) to handle the routine maiten  to prevent the deterioration of the infrastructure facilities
and services in the city and stengten the capacity of the Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA)
for project imple n. Furthermore, it would attempt to sensitize the residents in the
affected areas on the need for hygiene and environmental sanitation in cooperation witf local
NOOs through their community development programs. the proposed project aims at
implementing a carefully selected range of emergency physical improvements that would benefit



-2 -
the low-income residents and, at the same time, defining and establishing a famework for longer
term urban development of Greater Freetown and other major cities in Sierra Leone.
H. THEIS S
A. Sector Overview
1.  hPunlaon and LV       zm
2.1 Current estimates put thae population of Sierra Leone at about 4.4 million, up from 4.1
million in 1990 (estimated), 2.7 milion in the 1974 and 2.2 million in the 1963 censuses. This
implies an inter-censal growth rate (1963-1974) of 2 percent per annum and a current growth rate
of about 2.4 percent per annum. The urban population, estimated to be 1.3 million in 1990,
accounted for 32 percent of the total and is growing at about 4.5 percent per annum, almost twice
the national average. If these trends continue, by the year 2000 the urban population will almost
double, and wil represent about 39 percent of the national total. Nationwide, the population has
been found to be relatively young, with low education, with high birth and death rates, relying
largely on subsistence agriculture, and with a high tendency to migrate to urban areas. The urban
sector profile of Sierra Leone is elaborated in Annex 2-1. The actual and the projected growth of
both the total and the urban population of Sierra Leone is shown graphically in Anex 2.
2.2 Analysis of the 1974 census data shows that 21 percent of Sierra Leoneans lived in
"urban" settlements with population of 5,000 and above, with Freetown alone accounting for
about 50 percent of this population. The most recent census (1985) indicates that the population
of Freetown was about 12 percent of the total population and is growing at a rate in excess of the
national urban population growth figure of 4.5 percent (para. 2.1). This is partly due to the
failure of the agricultural policy and inability to sustain development in the provinces. The
situation has been made worse by the war in Liberia and incessant attacks by rebels on Sierra
Leonean territory. In view of the high densities in central Freetown, most of the new inmigrants
have settled in selected sections of the west, notably Brookfields and Congo Market, and to a
larger extent in the eastern areas of Kissy and Wellington.
2.3 The need of new migrants for proximity to employment opportunities has made already
depressed areas in the center of Freetown, such as Susan's Bay, Kroo Bay and Mabella, even
more vulnerable to migration pressures. It is difficult at this stage to predict future urbanization
patterns in Sierra Leone on account of present unrest. However, with the recent improvement in
the economy and development efforts in the rural areas, an end of hostility could somewhat
mitigate current migration patterns.
2.4   Studies carried out In fourteen of the lowest-income residential areas of Freetown during
the latter part of 1992, confirm that household Incomes are very low when compared to an
already low median per capita income equivalent to US$240 per annum (para. 1.1). Assuming
that household income is derived from an average 1.5 income eaners per household, the median
household income would be in the order of US$360 per annum or Le 16,500 per month at
prevailing exchange rates. Within four of the fourteen areas which were studied in greater depth,
Kroo Bay, Mabella, Susan's Bay and Ginger Hall, the lowest recorded average monthly
household income was in Kroo Bay and was Le 7,500 cquivalent to just over US$13. The highest



-3-
was Ginger Hall where the average monthly Income was Le 9,800 pe month, eqivalent to
US$17. Household Incomes for the s  selected conmunlty/slui upgradig areas are shown In
Anng 2-. These monthly incomes translate to an annl household Income ranging between
US$161 and US$210 or only 4S-38 perct of the nationa average, clearly Indlcating the relative
poverty of these communities. 7Te studies also reveal that of the total household income, on
average, considerably more than 50 percent is generated from informa sources. It is towards
these lowest income residents of Freetowt that the benefits to be provided under this proposed
project would be specifically targeted.                                 1
2.5 At present, no data exists which gives an accurate soclo-economic profile of Freetown, In
order to Identify exacdy where the inhaitants of the six selected upgrading areas fit within the
oveal spectrum of the ciW's population. Howevar, following close consultation with responsible
Government agencies, the most deprived areas of the City were Identified, totalling fourteen.
These were surveyed in some detail and ranking criteria applied to determine those most
deserving of improvement. From this process, six setdements were Identified for Inclusion in the
proposed project. The total population of the six settlements is some 96,000 persons,
representing 12.5 percent of the total (estimated) present population of Freetwn. These represent
the lowest income and most disadvantaged sector of the present population of the City.
2.      abnInfratu ure in  eetown
2.6   Freetown, the Capital City of Verra Leone, occupies the nortaem tip of the narrow
peninsua between the Sierra Leone River and the Atlantic OceaL The City was founded In 1792
and since then has grown steadily to its present size with a population variously estimated to be
between 0.6 and 1.0 million Inhabitants. The topography of Freetwn Is generally hilly nmning
down to the sea and the river, the main focus of the City being the waterfont alongside the Sierra
Leone River, the residential and business districts spreading south, east and west, into the
foothills of fte Peninsula Mountains. The climate in Freetown is governed by two main seasons,
the wet and the dry, with short transitiona periods before and after each. The dry season runs
from about the end of November until the beginning of March, when rainfall is almost totally
absent. The wet season builds to a climax between July and September, with montly rainfalls
recorded of 20-30 inches. Ihe climate throughout the year is hot, with daytime temperatures
between 21 and 32 degrees Celsius, and humidity is high.
2.7   The Infastucture needs of Freetown are enormous. All facilities have fallen below an
acceptable standard throughout the city. Additionally, at present, with limited exceptions, no
strategic plans exist to address the present or future overall needs or needs within sectors.
Responsible institutions are unprepared to meet the massive task which faces them. Conclusions
drawn from studies carried out in 1991 by local consultants, financed by UNDP, of the condition
of the City's infrastructure and institutional capacity can be sum-narized as follows: (i) physical
measures are urgently required to stem the tide of deterioration and to improve the environmental
quality and the quality of life of the residents, but that they should initially be limited to those
which contrbute to possible long-term developments; (ii) long-term plans should be formulated
for each of the physical sectors, to enable the design of more major projects to address future
needs which will result from contimuing natural growth and rur to urban migration; and Qii)
institutional responsibilities for the development of each of the sectors must be clarified, and those
identified institons must be strengthened to meet the implementation, operational and
maintenance needs of the sectors under their control and to be prepared to meet the increased



ned of the futu. The problems faelng the varous seors are summarzed In the following
paaraphs.
(a)    Rods and-Page
2.8   Pretown has a road network of about 118 km. comprisng 38 km of majot roads, 40 km
of collectorldistributor roads and 40 km of local roads. Most of the major roads and the
oollectors/dIstributo  wave asphaltic concre sura. Local roads are prdominany surfcew
dressed. In all cases, the surfaing has deteriorated, pardcularly on the most heavilynrveled
paved roads. Pavemem  suft   varyig degrees of dite  from moderate to etesive with very
limid reidual life. The enr network i9 characized by inadequat capacity, inadequae
sidewalks, lack of traffic signats, inadequate parking facilities, discontdies and general
pedestrian vehicular conflict which leads to congestion particularly in the central business district.
The absence of a ring woad has created a situation where alI vehicles from the east to the west
must pass through the cetal business district, thereby aggravating the congestion. The vehicle
fleet consists predominanty of tai and privae cars and, to som  extent, mini-buses. The major
trs operators avoid the central business district on account of the congestion, typical of the city
center.
2.9   The drainW  systm  const of open and covered drins located along roads, which
pear to have been developed on piecemeal bads as road development progresses. Major
stams running through the city appear to have adequate capacities in the upper reaches.
However, no outfall structurts have been developed to ensure smooth discharge of storm water
into the sea, leading to creation of sand bars and effects of tiWal variation. Along the major
roads, the drainage system Is charcterized by: (i) general lack of capacity due to increases in
storm water quantidtes with development and desiVn limitations; (i) discontiuities resulting from
the piecemeal approach to its development; (ii) damaged cover slabs and eroded/scoured
sW'ons; (Iv) indinate dumping of solid wastes and street litter; and (v) deposition of
sedimet washed from the step mouan slopes.
-b)    Wow &Wy
2.10   Since its nworpation in 1961, GVWC has been managing an effective water supply
system. Adequate quantities of raw water are available from sources In Guma Valley. These
sources are sufficieat to sustain fiutu development. The raw water has very low suspended
solids, and tretmn  is by a system of sedimenation and rapid sand filtration followei by
chlorination and conditioning to cope with the sofness of water. Present problems of supply
intrrpto  and low-pressure In parts of the city are largely the resl of a major trunk and
disbution network deficiency and deterioration of distribution system in the older parts of the
city c g extenivo  leakages. Shortages experienced in the eastern sections of the City Is due
to the shorta  of Ands needed fbr new extensions to the system. Other problems include: (i)
the mdiumrm need to rehabiitate a part of the treatment plaut and service reservoirs; (v) high
cost of pumping water to tie elevated are of the city; (il inadequate cost recovery due, in large
meue, to failure to adjust rates to account for massive devauations; and (iv) absence of
universal metering to manage demand and improve the revenue collection system.



2.11   Due to the bistorical deut of FCC in diarging its obligations (para. 4.10), th
seice has been assigned to the Departent of Health and Social Services (DOHSS). With the
assistance of the Federa Goverment of Germany, this Department has established a prvate
sector-operated solid wast management system based on removable skips and roll-arm trucks.
German technical assistance has also provided the servies of a waste maagement ext who
advises the contractor and operate a workshop to service the contactoes equipmet and the
Department's in-house fleet used for door-to-door collection of refiuse and septic tank baling on
comme l basis. The Federal Govenmt of Germany has recently extended is agreemet with
the Governmet to the end of 1993 and will begin a new phas to the end of 1996. The exstg
arrangements, though sound in principle, has a number of shortfalls, including: O) the xsting
fleet is some ten years old and Is becoming increasingly unreliable; ($1) the conactor, for a
number of reasons, some beyond its control, has not managed the system as expected; (ii) long
haulage distances are further aggravated by the congestion in the city center; (lv) spares for the
private contractor's fleet are not available; and (v) unsuitability of some of the sites used fr
disposal ae not atisfactory.
(d)    Doic S
2.12   A system of interconnected sewers exist for parts of Preetown's Cenral Business District
(CBD) and most commecl and business houses are connected to it These are gravity sewers
which discharge into the sea without treat  or submarine outfall, thus compounding the
pollution and environmental degradation problems prcipitated by flash floods washing solid
wes onto the shoreline. Ihe Department of Labor, Energy and Power (DOLP) prepared
plans in the late 1970s for etensions of the system and improvement of effluet quality, which
need to be updated. lTus, for about 90 percent of the residents of Freetown, the only availablo
means of excreta disposal are: () septic tanks in lndividual houses which are baled on regul
basis, and since there are design limittions of these tanks and their soak-away facilities,
considable pressure is placed on available baling trucks of DOHSS; (i) pit laines whose
design could be impwroed to reduce odor, eliinate flies, prevent conct with focal matter and,
above all, extend its service life; and (il) the bush and along the shorine, a practice hat ould
be discouraged by maing available suitable alternatives to the afected communites.
2.13 Sullage water, i.e. the water from sinsl, wash basins and baths, Is normally disposed of
into the surfce water drainage system (roadside drain) or more often through makeshift channels
to enter and pollute the nearest available stream.
(e)    Makets and Abattois
2.14 These potentialy valuable revenue sources for FCC have deteriorated over recent years.
Stuctural units and wals are in a state of direar, and roofs an their support structures are In
poor condition and oonstitu  a danger to people and prpery. There is serious ovecrwng and
parking, and there are no loadingloffloadleg factes. The abaoirs lack ventiaon,
illundnato and ins  screens. The surrounding areas are choked with garage, water supply
and ablution facilities are insufficient, and toilets are located far away, thus douagng their use
by market operars. Where toilets are located ciose to markes, they are undersized and
overused. In all cases, easy accessibility to sanitary facilities is a major issue.



-6-
(M0    Infasuture in Dreed Areas
2.15 Most of the residents in Freetown live in unsatisfactory conditions having limited access
to even the most basic services. 'he worst and most disadvantaged groups live primarily in the
bays close to the seashore. Housing conditions in these areas are very poor with a predominance
of what are locally referred to as "Pan Body" structures, i.e. houses constructed from scrap iron
and other waste materials. Services such as water, sewers, roads and footpaths are extremely
limited or non-existent in these areas. Furthermore, these settlements occupy prime land close to
the CBD and the Port and also occupy the alignment of the proposed ring road. As such, the
long term residential status of these areas may not be in the best interest of city development as a
whole. Other identified depressed areas, where conditions are somewhat better than those
recorded along the seafront, but with ultimate land use more appropriate for residential purposes
include Brookflields, Krootown, Congo Market and Ginger Hall. These communies suffer from
lack of or poor condition of roads, all forms of drainage, water supply, toilet facilities, refuse
disposal systems and electricity. Added to flwnse is the absence of basic medical facilities, schools
and other community facilities. Due to the pioximity of these areas to the city center, population
densities are high and continued neglect of these areas could lead to a serious epidemic.
(O)    urban Mpping
2.16 One of the most basic problems facing agencies responsible for development of Freetown
s lack of up-t-date mapping. Available maps date from the late 1950s or early 1960s. These
maps do not in many ways reflect the present stuation and, in order to be able to dimension a
project, laborious surveys have to be made. Tbis is time consuming and expensive, and
potentially damaging to the final project design quality. The availability of reliable up-to-date
mapping will also greatly facilitate the property identification and valuation exercises proposed to
be undertaken by FCC, and will help DOHSS and GVWC in the identification of their clients.
(b)    Urban
2.17 Urban transport in Freetown is almost entirely operated by the private sector, mainly by
individuals and small firms. The service delivered is char ized by its inadequacy and poor
quality. The main reasons for tis are: (i) high operatg costs due to poor roads; (ii) lack of
fiuds to import new veNhicles and spare parts; and (dil) high Leone import costs for fuel and
vehicles due to the effects of devwd vion. As a result, badly _aantaed and run-down buses are
congested and passengers suffer for   aiting times and frequent delays due to breakdowns. In
Freetown, these problems are compounded by extremely poor road conditions and a lack of traffic
management. These problems are being jointly addressed under the Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Project (para. 1.3) as well as the proposed project. Efforts will concentrate on
physicaly upgrading the road network throughout the city and instituting traffic management
measures to increase the efficiency of use of road space to improve the availability of parking and
loading/offloading spaces, and to reduce trans-city travel times.



-7 -
3.    Institutional Framework for Sector Deelopmnt and Manemet
(8)     o    Sbana Weakesses
2.18  In spite of recent efforts to restrucre the administrative machinery of Goverment, most
agencies active in the urban sector suffer from problems related to lack of trained staff or
otherwise inadequate technical capability. Ihe FCC is unable to perform its statutory fimctions
due to lack of sufficient finance, maVpower and equipment. Revenue generation is limited due to
wealnesses in the existing revenue base together with deficiencies In billing, collection and
enforcement procedures. Overall financial administration is impaired by inadequate budgetng,
accounting, and auditing systems together with ineffective information systems. Conditions of
service are unattractive with the result that many key posts, particularly at senior professional
level, are not filled. In general, essentW equipment to enable staff tD fulfill their duties is either
in poor condition, broken down, or non-existent. ITe SLRA is a young institution to be able to
devote enough time for resolving complicated urban issues. GVWC needs to be modernized in
terms of technical facilities as well as management business practices.
(b) Institutional Respnsibilities
2.19 Urban Roads. Largely due to FCC's lack of capacity to perform its stutory functions,
the management for urban roads in Freetown belongs to SLRA, which is a semi-autonomous
parastaal organization governed by a Board of Directors nominally under the technical control of
the Department of Works (DOW)(para. 4.3). Assuming the road planning, design and
maiteance functions previously exercised by DOW, its establishment is a cornerstone of the
ongoing Bank supported Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, and a phased program has
been put in place for transition of the road unit from DOW to SLRA with a full complement of
facilities and essent  staff necessary for its initial operation. The Authority is headed by a
Director General, who was formerly the Chief Enginee for roads in DOW. The management
team is assisted by a UNDP financed technical advisor and other technical asistance personnel
being recruitd under the Road Rehabilitation and Mainnance Project. At present, SLRA is
responsible for all aspects of road construction and maintenance dtroughout the country, including
those in Freetown.
2.20   Man KatWr Su.ppIl. The provision of water supp!- w Freetown is the responsibility of
GVWC, a parastatal organization incorporated under the Guma Valley Water Act of 1961 (para.
4.6). The responsibilities of GVWC are comprehensive, covering all aspects of water supply
from raw water source identification, impounding and abstraction, treatment, treated water
transmission, treated water reticulation, water billing and sales and the operadon and mainmnance
of the total system. GVWC Is governed by a Board of six Dikectors, of which three are
nominated by the Governmet, and include the Chairmnn of the FCC Committee of Management.
2.21   Solid Waste Manam . Although statutorily a function of Freetown City Council,
DOHSS is currently managing the collection and disposal of solid waste in Freetown through its
Environmental Health Division. This division receives technical and financial support from the
Federal Government of Germany (para. 2.11). A sanitary engineer has been enged by the
Department to coordinate enviromnental sanitation projects and collaborate with DOLEP in the
constrction of toilet facilities and related activities. The system adopted is based on Sme skips
which are located at strategic points throughout the city. These are collected by a fleet of roll-
arm trucks for emptying at one of the two disposal sites located at King Tom to the west, and



- 8 -
Graville Brook to the east of the CBD. The system is operated by a private contractor who has
a fixed term contract with DOHSS. Under this contract, the contractor is provided with skips,
trucks and the use of a vehicle maintenance workshop, al of which were provided by the Federal
Government of Germany. In addition, spare parts are supplied. The contractor's main
rsponsibility is the provision of vehicle ertors, fuel and management. A viable commercial
system for septic tank desiudging and the collection of certain insttutional wastes is being run by
DOHSS.
2.22 Domest Sanitation. DOLEP is responsible for sewerage, water supply, and electric
power generation and distribution. In addition to electric power supply, It supervises the activities
of GVWC and also runm a parallel in-house water supply unit responsible for areas outside
Freetown. This in-house unit is also responsible for the limited sewerage system in the center of
Freetown and is responsible for preparing policies and plans for fimre extensions.
2.23 Ciq Markets and Abattoir. FCC is responsible for the management, maintenance and
operation of the city markets and abattoirs, which provide facilities for the trading of the principal
staple foodstuffs and basic household requirements to the vast majority of the city's residents.
The six main Freewn makts typically comprise a market ball, normally (with one exception,
Guard Street) of masowy construction with a galvanized Iron roof supported by a wooden
stcture. Internally, trading is caried out from concrete tables, which are rented by the square
yard to sellers. Externaly, city markets provide a trading area for a large number of inormal
sellers who trade their wares from make-shift wooden klosks or from baskets and mats on the
ground. These trading areas spill over into adjacent streets and alleyways. Most markets have
limited toilet facilities, and garbage disposal skips are located within the vicinity of each. The
oldest market building on Krootown Road was constructed in 1898.
2.24  Munici    an. FCC has attempted to improve its internally generated rvenue over
the lat five years, but has encountered many problems. The main sources of internaly generated
revenue are city rates, licenses, fees and other user charges, together with inerest on investment.
City rates have provided a consistently high proportion of ttal intnally generated revenue for
FCC in the past three years. However, there exists considerable poteidal fr increasing FCC's
inwtenly generated revenue by: () improving the existing city rate system through upKdtig of
the tax base by means of a revaluation, to ensure thatll rateable properties are assessed at
current values; () reviewing the existing system of fees, licenses and other user charges to
maximize cost effectiveness; and (il) underakig a complete overhaul of the existing systems for
billing, collection, and enforcement
2.2S  FCC will need tO develop its insutiona and financi capacity to provide the full range
of sevic  requie in Freown, particularly effectivo e      of existig and new
nfastucture, and to demonstrate the  le beefits of a reiable local taxation sys   that will
encourage local ratepayers to conltrbut to the cost of services provided. In this connecton, it
has been agreed with FCC and the Government that, the proposed project will include an
organizational and financial review of the City Council, which will study the present situation and
make recomm    ions for necessay improvemen. The terms of reference for the proposed
study are shown in Annex24. Agreement has been obtained that this study will be completed by
December 31, 1993.



-9 -
B. S        tnL -mm   s1 gz
2.26  Ihe above discussions on the issues facing urban infastruture in Freetown, and most
likely representative of other major cities in Sierra Leone, could be summarized as follows:
(i) . AU infrstructure in the city is in a run-down condition: roads are heavily pot-
holed and much of the surfacing is seriously deteriorated; both surface water and
sanitary drainage systems are in a poor state of repair and are desperately in need
of rehabilitation; drains are frequently uncovered and present not only a health
hazard but also an accident hazard. Markets are overcrowded and unhygienic for
both sllers and purchasers. Lage areas of substandard housing exist, where little
physical Ihfrastructure is present The two sub-ectors, where conditions are
better, are in solid waste collection and disposal, where an embryonic system is in
operation, and in the supply of potable water. However, even in these sub-
sectors, service levels could be substantially improved;
(ii)   Infastructure operation and maintenance responsibilities are not clearly defined
and agencies responsible for the provision and maintenance of infrastructure
within the city are under considerable pressure to carry out their allotted
unctions. They would need assistance in finance, trained manpower and
materials and equipment to be able to stem the tide of deterioration and to
eventually bring about much needed improvements; and
(iii) There has bsen little or no recent effort to prepare plans and programs to address
the Intructe problems of the city. Most improvements attempted have been
based on an 'ad hoc' decision making process with insufficient access to up-to-
date socoeconomic and demographic information.
2.27 The Government's response to the above problems is a three-part development strategy:
(I) to address the most critical infrastructure needs on an emergency basis; (ii) to build the
techical and finaal capacity in the main urban infrastructure agencies of the country to operate
and maintain improved inf     ; and (III) to undertake strategic planning to detemne the
medium and longer-term grow  chacteristics and investment needs of the city. This staegy
would be supported by IDA and other aid agencies active in Sierra Leone. The proposed project
would include provision for tie preparation of a strucure plan for Greater Freetown with the
term of referpnce shown In Annex 2-. Agreement has been obtained that this study will be
corpleted by iSeptember 30, 1994.
C. Bank Invyolement in the Sector
2.28   The proposed project would be the firt Bank urban development operation in Sierra
Leone. In thi related roadhighway sector, however, the Bank has financed three projects wbich
were approved in 1971, 1981 and 1992. The PPAR/PCRs on the first two highway projects cited
te followig main lessons relevant to the proposed project, including: (o if roads are to be
abiitated or rebuilt, a specific lHst of roads shd be agreed during negotions ad Included
in the credt agreement; (i) provision dould be made for adequat local urency fimding; and



- 10-
(iiV supervision by IDA should be frequent with required pefomace defined in an action plan
to be agreed on at negotiaions, and DA management should be prepaed to intervene prompdy
to resolve problems. These lessons bave been incorporated in the desip of the proposed projecst
m. THE
A. Proeet Origin and Formuldon
3.1   In 1991, at the request of the FCC, the UNDP finaced a study to assess the condition of
the physical infrastructure in the City and to mae recommendations for iovements. A draft
Final Report was completed in September 1992 with the supervision of IDA, and recommended a
progam to rebabilitate the severely deteriorated and dilapidated physical inuctre of the
City.
3.2   Following the romption of Bank operation In Siera Leone in Apdl 1992, the Bank
assisted the Government in preparing an immediate project to address the untiscy condition
of urban infastructure in Freetown. In July 1992, a project identification mission visited Sierra
Leone and based on above-mentioned UNDP financed study, idendfied possible compon     of an
urban rehabilitation project. In November/December 1992, a prject preparation mission visited
Sierra Leone and assisted GOSL to identify and appoint consultant to pre engineering studies
fr the main components of the proposed project, which include urban upgr , market
upgrding, urban road impovement and watr supply. In February 1993, an IDA pre-ppraisal
mission visited Sierra Leone to begin the appras of the project and its In    sub-
compnent. Project appras was carried out by an IMA mission in March/April 1993.
B.  lect Obices
3.3 The primary objective of the proposed project is to improve the infrastructure in Greater
Freetown, with special regard for the most disadvantaged sectors of the urban poor in the city. It
wil also e c sustanability of such urban instructure by bovin the techcal and
financial capacities of agencies responsible for operating and maiaining new fcities and for
plaming and managing fiore investment programs.
C. ]BM     e Z
3.4   The proposed project will comprise five componems: O) urban upgrading; (ii)
rebabilitation/upgrading of access roads; (iii) water supply; (iv) instittlons support to SLRA for
project Implemenation and to FCC to help establish a mainten  caacity; and (v) technical
assnce. These components are described in detail in Annex 3-1 ad are summrized below:



- ii -
(1)    lb   1~
Q)    ImpMy       g payl  Settemerl   : Of the fourtee identfie deprived
are  of Freetown, six areas exhbitng the worst conidons have been
selected for upgrading under this project, including KrootowwnKoo Bay,
Mabela, Susns Bay, Congo Markt, Brookfields and Ginger Hall. As
s0me of these settlements occupy prime urban land which may be assigned
to other uses in the future, ondy minimum upgrading measures will be
provided at these sites including the provision of communal facilities of
water supply, toilets and solid waste disposal, and the access needed to
service such facilities. For the remaining areas, a more comprehensive
range of upgrading measures would be provided, including roads and
footpaths, water supply, sanitary facilities and drainage;
(ii)   Market rmm: Ibis sub-component will improve the conditions at
six of the busiest city center markets (Krown Road Market, Smyfte
Street Maret, Kenmedy Stree/ Kissy Road Market, Garrison Street
Market, Guard Street Market and Abattoir, and Bombay Street Market)
which are unhygienic, overcrowded and severely dilapidated. The project
will improve public health facilities and arrest the deterioration of market
buildings. The proposed improvements are considered to be emergency,
short-term measures which will not prejudice longer term studies of the
suitability of market location within the city. The project will improve
WSater supply, toilet and ablution facilities, improve access, garbage
collectio and disposal facilities, and provide Struc     repairs to market
buildings; and
i})   SolidWaaste Management. As many of the problems of the settlement and
market areas are connected with the accumulation of uncollected solid
waste, the project will support and extend the on-going solid waste
management project operated by DOHSS with the support of the Federal
Government of Germany. The proposed project will include provision for
the acquisition of 50 garbage containers to be sited within the project
upgrading and market areas, 2 skip trucks and required transport vehicles
to support the monitoring UDit of DOHSS. In addition, a study (the terms
of refrence are shown in Annex 2) will be financed under the project to
revw the solid waste management system in Freetown and to recommend
long-erm options to address orgtional, technical and operationa
asec of this sector. Agreemnt has been obtained that this study will be
completed by March 31, 1994.
(11)    ezatln  gading of Aces Roads: The roads component will mainly
provid access to deprved areas and markets selected for upgrading to complement on-
going efts to  hilitate roads within the city, curretldy finaced under the IDA-
finne Road Redabilitation and M _ai       Project (para.1.3) to remove bottlenecks
and enhan  trans-city movemes. Physical works will concate on the repair and
kwoen  of ariageway and footway surfaces and, in order to sustin these
Improveents, adjacent roadside drains will be provided/ improved to obviate srmwa
damge. Exist  open drains in araw of high pedestrian traffic will be covered to ensure



- 12-
the safety of both pedestrians and motorlsts.hI1s component will also Include a
comprehensive traffic management study to facilitae informed decisions on future road
project and to assist the formulation of a comprehensive traffic and transportation policy.
Ihe draft terms of reference for this study are shown In Ann 33. Agreement has been
obtaied that this study will be completed by December 31, 1994.
(Im)   NtM     ly: Ths component Is aimed at optimig the capaciy of the
eidsting wat supply system and Imprving the fiacal and management capacity of the
GVWC. lbe project will consist of carTying out a leak detection and repair program to
reduce system losses; a universal metering program for all consumers; a routine
distribution program; provision of communications and transport facilities to improve the
Company's operadions; and Improvement of its accounting and billing systems. Studies
will also be carried out under the existing Project Preparation Facility (PPF No.772-1-SL)
to assess the water demand and system requirements, review the organization, operation,
fies and water tariff stucure of GVWC and recommend measures for improvement.
These studies will form the basis for a free-standing water supply/sewerage project to be
considered for possible IDA financing;
(i) to-SLRA: a Project Management and Coordination Unit for the Freetown
nfrastructure Rehabilitation Project (PMCU/FIRP) has been established
within SLRA to be responsible for the implementation of the project, as
elaborated in paras. 4.4 and 4.5. A Project Manager has been appointed
by SLRA to head this unit. Provisions are included in the proposed
project for the financing of the services of PMCU/F1RP's Project
Manager for at least three years and the acquition of vehicles, office
equipment and supplies for the Unit to be operadonal; and
(g)   to FCC  an o           and financia review of FCC (para.2.25) will
be carried out to recommend ways and means to improve the operations
and finances of the City Council. Subject to the findings of this study,
and in order to sustain and ensure the efficient operation and routine
maintenance of physical facilities provided under the proposed project, as
weUl as the road network within Freetown, FCC will need to establish a
ma_itenance capability within its City Enginees Department. The
proposed project will include the provision of the services of a Municipal
Engineer to be charged with the responsibility for setting up and manag
a mainnance unit (MU) as well as the acquition of the necessay
equipment and facilities to service the unit and emergency firefighting
equipment. The TORs and organiation chart for the MU and the TORs
for the Municipal Engineer are shown in Annexes 3-4 and 3-5.
Agreement has been obined that, subject to the findings and
recommendations of the organiional and financial review to be
completed by December 31, 1993, FCC will establish the maintenanc
unit and appoint the Municipal Engineer with qualifications satisfactory to
IDA by Jamuwy 31, 1994; and



- 13-
(V)   Th            A      ssist As mentioned in the above sub-sections, consulting services
wil be provided under the project to carry out a number of studies for the solid waste
management, traffic manement, storm drainage and sewerage and the  ional and
financW review of FCC. Jn addition, the proposed project will include technical
asshance for engineering design and construction supervision for the various project
component to be Implemented by SLRA and GVWC, for strengthening the operational
capacity of FCC and for the overall management of the implementation of the project.
Further tecical assistance wUI be provided for the preparation of a strtu e plan for
Greater Freetown as well as feasibility studies for the rhabiltation/ upgrading of
stucture in the other major urban center in Sierra Leone (para 2.27).
D. Pt    Cost Bdtes
3.5   The estimated cost of the proposed project, including physical and price contingencies and
duties and taxes, is US$36.0 million. The foreign exchange cost of the project Is estimated at
US$20.8 million, exclusive of interest and service charges during construction. Total local costs
of US$1S.2 million equivalent include duties and taxes estimated to be in the order of US$7.4
million equivalent. The cost estmates are based on April 1993 prices. Physical contingencies of
10 percent have been added on all equipment, materia and service costs. Price contingencies
have been calculated on the basis of the following inflation factors: for foreign exchange costs,
0.8% in 1993, 1.7% in 1994, and 3.6% in 1995 and subsequent years; for local costs 37% in
1993, 21% in 1994, and 10% in 1995 and subsequent years.



-14-
3.6 Detaled proJect cost estimates are shown in Am 3 and are summaized bdow:
gSS$nMnlion Eaulvae
Laa 11           Eoa
L Urban Upgrading
(i)  Improvemen of Deprived Setlements  2.6S          2.63         5.28
(i)  Market improvement                 1.63          0.85         2.48
(Iv)  Solid Waste Management             -            a
Sub-total                         4.28           3.8S         8.13
I. RebabilitatIon/Upgrading of Access Roads    3.63        4.12         7.75
m.  Water Supply Component                   3.81          3.20         7.01
IV.  Institonal Support to FCCfSLRA
(I)  to FCC                            0.59           1.74         2.33
(H)  to SLRA                           0.09           0.71         0.80
V. Technical Assistance                     0.28           2.S4         2.82
VI. PPF Refimd                                            -             LaO
Base Cost Estimate                     12.68         17.66        30.34
Physical Contingencies                  1.27          1.63         2.90
Price Condngencies                      1.          ....U7
Total Project Cost                         15.20 2/                  a
E. Fla          Plan
3.7   The proposed IDA Credit of US$26.0 million equ` ialent would finance about 90% of the
project cost excluding duties and taxes. The financing plan is summarized In the following table:
I/ Local costs include duties on imorted equipment and matals and taxes estimed at about
US$7.4 million equivalent.
2/ See Footoe 1.
Zf See Foownot 1.



- IS-
EchzftPlan
(USs Millon Equivalent)
Source ~~EQiD. 
Government              9.3 .I        -               9.3            25
FCC                     0.1 /         -               0.1            1
GVWC                    0.6          -                0.6            2
IDA                     22                                          _2
Total                                                au.2/ l
3.8   Ih proposed IDA credit of US$26 milion wotdd be made to the Goverment. Of this
amount, US$19.0 million (Including a related PPF refund of about US$0.8 milion) would be
made avaiable to SLRA on a grant basis to Implement on In behalf the roads component and on
behalf of FCC and DOHSS their respective project components. The remaining balance of
US$7.0 million (Including a related PPF refnd of about US$0.7 million) of the proposed credit
would be on-lent to GVWC for a 20-year repayment period, Including a grace period of 5 years,
under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA. The on-leAing rate would be at the
Bank's standard varable rate with the foreign exchage risk borne by GVWC. Interest during
conruction would be capitalized. The Government would finance the dutic. and taxes related to
GVWC's project componen which would also be capitalized and repaid to the Government over
the life of the subsidiary loanL Couw    t funding for the water supply component, other an
rated dudes and tx  ad irst dui  coucton, will be provided by (GVWC from is
intena cash generaion  his fiancig plan was confirmed during the negodations. Agreement
has been obtained that the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and GVWC will be
executed prior to the Offectiveness of the proposed credit.
3.9 With respect to counterpart fimding by the Government for duties and taxes on imported
equipment and matesis for the project, the Government has agreed to establish an arrangement
to expedite the clearance of such goods through customs. To provide the remammg counterpart
funding for the fiacing of the project (.e. other than those to be provided by GVWC and
FCC), and to ensue that such funing wil be timely and adequate to expedite project
Implementation, the Govermen has ageed to set up a project account into which quarterly
disburemens wil be made to cover required payments against proj  expenditures. The
Govermet will establish this project account with an initial deposit of Le 200 million before
July 31, 1993, i.e. prior to credit effectiveness.
4/ nhcuding some US$7A milDon for duties and tlxeS.
/ Icludes th provision of offce spaco, staff and routine requiroments for MU.
f/ See Footnote S.
1 See Footn& S.



- 16 -
IV. PROJWIEMCTNTIQN
A.  _n_almfigAsmdesndjmalihl
1.  rJmD 1an              Anmg2MMI
4.1   Th. main implementing agencies for the project would be the Siena Leone Roads
Authority (SLRA) and the Guma Valley Water Supply Company (GVWC). GVWC would be
responible for implementig the water supply componen as well as for the costruo of waer
supply fidities (maiy standpipes) included In the uan ommuity upgrad    and maket
Improvement components. SLRA would be reponsible for Implementing the urban roads and
drainage component, the urban upgrading and market improvement componats on behalf of the
Freetown City Council (FCC), and the solid waste project sub-component on behalf of the
Deparment of Health and Social Services (DOHSS). FCC would be responsible for establishing
the Maint ce Unit (MU) within its City Engineer's Department and for involving the affected
communities in the proiect and sustaining the involvement and interest of communty residents.
DOHSS would ensure that the facilities provided for under the project, i.e. continers, skip
trucks, etc. and procured on its behalf by SLRA, would be propedy operated and maintinedt by a
suitable private contractor for the collection and disposal of solid waste in the city, especially in
the urban community and market areas supported by the project. A NGO (PLAN lneional),
which is arrently operating in some of the six deprived areas to be upgraded under the project,
wold collaborate through its community development program to sensitize and train commwnty
residents in hygiene and environmental sanitation and in the use and maintenance of sanitary
facilities.
4.2   It is noted under secdon 5(2)(f) of the Sierra Leone Roads Authority Act, 1992, SLRA is
allowed to "carry out such other activities as may be required in order to perform the finctions
and duties of the Authority under this Act." To clarify the role of SLRA in the implementation of
the uban upgrading component (i.e. market and slum upgrading) the following actions have been
completed: (a) FCC and SLRA have signed an agreement that SLRA wil implement on FCC's
bebalf the udman upgrading component and related actives under the project, and (b) the Board
of SLRA has passed a resoludon st    that the activities to be carried out by SLRA under the
project are required for the performance of SLRA's functions and duties under the AcL Copies
of the resolution and the Agreement between FCC and SLRA have been furnished to IMA.
2. S-an Leone Roads AuthorityrJSRA
4.3 During the preparation of the IDA-financed Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project
(para.1.3), SLRA was established under its legislation enacted in February 1992 as a semi-
independ entity to be responsible for the adminitive control, planning, development and
maiance of aU roads and related suctures including ferries in the country. It has the
authoridt to hire and fire staff, fix salary levels higher Goverment pay scales, sign and award
contracts, receive the bulk of its funds for road maiAnce from a Road Fund as allocated by
Padiament and levy other road user charges subject to the approval of Parliament. As shown in
its organization chart in Annex -I, it is managed by a Director General under the direction of a
Board of Directors all appointed by the President. It report administratively to the Secretary of
State of the Department of Works and is subject to exteal audit by independent auditors. SLRA



-17-
wil hae a tota staff of about 1,400, may of whom have alrdy bsen recie from the road
staff of the D      of Wor. SLRA has become flly opanal and has comptod key
appoitments of All departmet heads.
4.4   To assist the curnt Directr General of SLRA, a former Chief Highway Enginer of
DOW and a capable manager in Implementag the proposed project, a Project Management and
Co-ordiaton Unit/Freeown Infstructue Rehbilitadon Project (PMCU/FIRP) has been
established witbin SLRA to manage and/or coordit te Implementation of all project
compoent other than the wate supply component of aVWC (para 4.1). Specfflcally,
PMCU/FIRP will manage and ovesee the implementadon of the roads coment, the
ommunity/slum upgrading and market Improvement sub-compouen  of the urba upgrading
compont and the various studies under the technca assistance component. It wil also be
respomible for the pocuremet of the equipment/trucks provded under the solid waste
management sub-component for the DOHSS, and for the hiring of the Municipal Engineer and
procurement of equipment for FCC. 'he Unit will also coordinate/liaise closely with GVWC to
ensu:e that the water supply works particularly in the project areas will be planned and carried
out in a timely and well-coordiaed manner to reduce cost. It will also be responsible for the
preparaion of the periodic progress reports on the entire project, with contrbution from GVWC
on the water supply component and from DOHSS on the solid waste management sub
4.5   lhe PMCU/FRP will be headed by a Project Manger to be financed under the project
(the TORs are shown in Annex 4  and wil be adequately staffed incuding a local coupart
Assitt Project M     r, an EnginrNrocurement Specialt and a Project Accountant) to carry
out its flmcdons. The Project Maar, who bas been appointed by SLRA, report directly to the
Director-General of SLRA who will be guided, specifically with repect to the proposed Freetown
Infiastructure Rehabilitation Project, by a Steering Committee. This advisory Committee will be
chaied by FCC and will include, as members, the representatives of GVWC, DOW, DOHSS as
well as other concerned Government Departments (DOFDEP, DOLHE, DOLEP and DOIA).
The organization and functions of PMCU/FIRP are shown in Annex 4-3. Agreement has been
bained that SLRA will appoint the Engineer/ro       opecwlist ad Project Accountant by
June 30, 1993, and the local outpart Asistan Project Manager by July 31, 1993, i.e. prior to
credit effectiveness.
3.    Guus Valleyaf WatmCpn= (GXW
4.6    As mentioned in paras. 2.10 and 2.20, GVWC was incorpoated in 1961 when the Guma
Valley water system was completed with financial assistance from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC). It is owned by the Government (90%) and the Freetown City
CoUncil (10%), and controlled by a Board of six members, three apointed by the Govement,
two by CDC and one by FCC. Its day-today opraton is in the hand of a General
Manager/Eagineer-in4hlef, Its orniaton chart is shown in Annex 4. It is autonomous,
including In tariff makin which has been decided by Its Board without inteference from the
Government. It has a staff of about 300 including 12 professional egineers and aount.
GVWC has a supply capacity of about 18 million imperial gallons (Ig) per day, most of which is
being used to sve more thn 600,000 people through roughly 10,000 (umetered) connections
and 520 standpipes, and 1,600 commercial/industr/intitutional customers through metered
connections.



- 18-
4.7    GVWC i a genay wel-run company which, In spite of the economic difficultes Xt
the country faced in the pat years, has by-and-large managed to susn Itself GVWCs main
stgths include: () tIhe high d    of atonomy that it has noyed in conducting ts
operations Including tariffng; (il) a stable and experienced management whose temr with
the company averae at least 15 years and who have risen through the ranks; (Ill) the mode of
operation, or traoditon/cuitu  that it has established over the years and the reputation as among
the best-run public companies In the country. GVWC's water supply operations could be
Improved especially in leakage reducton, meting of all domestic connections, expanding the
reticulaion network and pving mered  mectdons to the plots that are not being served; ths
will be adressed under the proposed project.
4.8   The water supply component of the proposed project includes provisions for a
concenatd  leak detection program, an expanded domestic connection and univesal metoing
program, and equipmen and transport facilities to strengthen GVWC's technical and commerci
operations. To address future requirements of GVWC's water supply system, two studies wIll be
carried out under an ongoing PPF M772-1-SL), one for updating the water supply master plan, and
the other for reviewing the organizatlonloperations and water tariff structuallfinances of GVWC
(para.3.4). Ihese studies will form the basis for a free standing water supply/sewerage project to
be appraised by the end of 1993 for possible IDA financing.
4.9   In implementng its project component, GVWC staff would supervise the connecton and
metering program. However, technical assistance of engineering consultants would be provided
under the proJe to assist in the procurement process including bids evaluation as well as in
carrying out the concentrted leak detecdon program (para. 3.4).
4.     eetown Cat Coundil iFCC
4.10  The Freetown Municipality Act 1973 charges the FCC with stauory responsibility for,
inter alia, secony road maitnance, refuse disposal, sanitation and public health services,
provision of housing, public transport, educational facilities, public markets and slaughterhouses,
street lighting, fire protection services and a wide range of other related urban services.
However, due to severe resource constint in recent years, it has been unable to provide more
than the most rudimentary serices. Many of its statutory responsibilities have been taken over
by other agencies or are not pefomed at all. The significant increase in the urban population
that has taken place over recent years has exacerbated these deflciencies. Since 1986, FCC has
operated under the control of a Committee of Management under the leadership of a Chairman
appointed by the Govermment. The Council is organized into a series of Departments based upon
linked responsibilities. Each Department has a member of the Committee of Management
assigned to it, and that member is responsible to the Committee of Management for the
Department. The Council's organization chart is shown in Annex 45. Total staff in post number
approximly 300 but many of the senior positions are either vacant or filled on a temporary
basis by staff with inadequate experiences. Limited internally generated revenue, which has fallen
in rea terms over the last 5 years, and the absence of significant external financial assistance,
have resulted in shortages of key financial and technical personnel and FCC has virtually no
vebicles or other equipmt requred for _infastucu  mance and other urban service
delivery.



-19-
4.11  The FCC Cbairmnand the Commltte of Manageme are acutey aware of the
deficciesIn sservic delivey and Iastru       curendy exprinced and have endeavored to
ipove the situation. In this conmcion, an orgnizaion and fnacil review of FCC will be
fianced under the proposed project to recommend the various options to Improve the operatons
and fiacial situstion of FCC. As indicated in para. 2.25, this study would be completed by
December 31, 1993.
4.12 In order to begin building up a capability to carry out routine maintenance of the roads
and other infastructures and services within the city and, subject to the findings and
ro    Dt s of te aforeioned sudy, provision has been included in the project to set up
a self-contined maintenance unit (MU) within the City Engineer's Department to be responsible
for hese functions (pan. 3.4). ITe organization of this MU together with Its requird faclties
and supplies for its fumction are elaborated in Annex 34. As indicated in parm 3.4, FCC would
establish the Maintence Unit and appoint the Municipal Enger to head the Unit by Janury
31, 1994. This would be a cdlon ofds ment against the equipment and materis for the
Maintenance Unit.
4.13   To involve the affected communities during the implementation of the project and to
sustain the involvement and interest of community residents, FCC has either taken or proposed to
take certain actions including public announcehents, conducting "Meet The To-Be-Affected
People Meedngs", seting up steering committee comprising area coordintors recruited from the
six community/slum areas to be upgraded under the project to maintain an effective liaison
between the communities and FCC. The reactions from the community residents have been
posive. FCC has agreed to implement this -Action Plan for Ciizen Participation- during the
course of project implementation to susti the Involvement and interest of community residents.
S.    Department of Health &nd S&dial Services
4.14 The Department of Health and Social Services, through its Environmental Health
Division, would be the beneficiary of the facilities provided for under the proposed project. It
would, in turn, make available the 50 containers and 2 skip truc  to the private solid waste
management contractor for sericing the garbage collection In the community upgrading and
market areas and would monitor the performance of the contractor. Transport facilities inchlding
2 pick-p trucks would be provided to the Environmental Health Division for its monioring
purposes. Agreement has been obtained that DOHSS will ensure tuat such facilities be properly
operated and maintained and that the waste collection and disposal in the project areas be serviced
satisfacorily.
B. Status gf Poect Peparation
4.15 As mentioned in para. 3.2, consultants were appointed in December 1992 to prepare
detailed designs, cost estimates and contract packages for the urban upgrading, market
improvement and water supply components which form the basis for IDA appraisal of the
proposed project. As part of their respective contract agreements with SLRA and GVWC, the
consultants will prepare all bid documents for these project components, which are expected to be
ready by July 1993 and put out for tender shortly thereafter. It is anticipated, however, that the



-20 - '
iviaton for bids for some of the pacages, such as water meter, leak detection equpment,
tasport vhicles, etc. would be isued bore Jy 1993. The draft terms of ref e for the
vaious studis fnanced under ttie project, Includig the ornzation and financial reviw of
FCC, structure plan for Greater Freetown, solid waste manamen revew, as well as for the
Projt Maager of PMCU/FI  and the Muncipal Eneer of the maintence uit of FCC,
have bee agreed with entfiles concerned. With regard to the tecnical asnce through local
NGOs for community development/education programs on hygiene and environmental sanitation
in the project aras, Plan Interonal, a NGO currently active in some of these communides, has
indicaed their agreement to collaborate and help implement and monitor such programs (para.
4.1).
C. ft*Sn1mung.m sion Schedule
4.16   The implemetation schedue for the various components of the proposed project is shown
Xihn AM4   It is expected that the upgrading of the six deprived communites would start up
imutanously and would be substantally completed over a period of 36 monDts. Tne
improvement of the six markets would be completed within 24 months of credit effectiveness.
The implementation of the various studies as well as the procurement of equipment under project
sub-components related to solid waste management, institudonal support to FCC for the
Maian  Unit and the Project Management and Coordination Unit (PMCU/FIRP) would be
completed within 18 months of credit effectiveness. With regrd to the water supply component,
h meterg and connecdon program is expected to be completed by November 1, 1994 when
GVWC is expected to implement a new tariff strucure based on metered consumption (para. 4.7).
The wat leakage detection and repair program will be carried out in a concentrated fashion over
the first two years upon receipt of the required equipment and will be nned at a steady state
level thereafer. The rouie infilling of tho water system, i.e. to provide new connections to the
conumers, would continue over a period of about two years; it is anticipated that further
requirements would be provided under a proposed stand-alone water supply project to be
praised by IDA towards the end of 1993 (para. 4.8). The proposed project would be completed
by December 31, 1997.
D. Precrement
4.17  As mentioned in pam. 4.1, prouement activities related to the water supply component
would be managed by GVWC. All proement acies related to the rest of the proposed
project, including community upgrading, market improvement, solid waste disposal, institutional
support and tedcnical assistance, would be managed and coordinated by SLRA through the Project
Manager of PMCU/FIRP. All goods, services and civil works contracts financed by IDA would
be procured In accordance with the Bank/IDA guidelines. Agreement has been obtained that all
procume  of goods through ICB under the proposed credit would be exempt from pre-shipment
Inspection for price by the Government-nominated inspection agency, but quality and quantity
Iopecto could be tone by the agency.
4.18   Cont     estimated to cost individually more than US$0.5 million for civil works and
more than US$300,000 for goods will be procured by ICB. There are 4 ICB contracts including
one for civil works involving the rehabilitation/upgrg of city street, drains and sidewalks



-21 -
(valued at about US$13 million) and three for various materials and equipment for GVWC and
FCC. Civil works contcs estae to cost less than US$0.5 million would be procured by
LCB prcedur  which wilt include: local adverdsing, public opening, clearly e $ed evaluton
crteria; contac award to be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder ireig bidders not
to be eccluded If they wish to participate. Ue fhr LCB documt wI  be Mewed by the Bonk
before it is released to the bidders. There are about 24 LCB civil worlk contac ranging ftom
US$O.I million to US$0.5 million. Twelve of these LCB contracts Involve labor-intensive
activities required to rehabilitate/upgrade the six markets and six community/slum areas,
comprising structural repairs, providing sanitation fOcilities, improving drainage and to paving
loading and unloading areas. The remaining 12 contracts involve water supply distribution
etensions, metering and making connections to both new and existing properties. Local
contractng capacity is adequate and capable of handling the work load. The aggregate value of
works contracts proued under LCB would be limited to US$8.0 million. To facilitato an eay
stat up of the water supply component, various equipment and mteris with an aggregate IMA
financing of US$12 million will be procured through intenational shopping or limited
interional bidding, as the case may be, in accordance with BankIIDA guidelines. Goods
valued at less than US$80,000 per contract and fire-fighting equipment, up to an aggregate of
US$0.8 million, would be procured by prudent shopping based on at least three quotations.
TXhese include vehicles, office equipment and materias for community development/training. Slip
trucks, spare parts and accessories, which are of proprietary nature or for standardized purposes,
may be purchased with prior agreement with IDA under directly negotiated contracts from
original manufcrers/suppliers or their authorized agents, within an aggregate value of US$0.3
milion. About 188 staff-months of consulting services would be requied for various studies to
be udertaken during the cours of the project and a fruher 90 staff-months for project
Implementation support inluding advanced c   for the seices, totalling 16 staff-mont,
of the project manager of PMCUIFIP and engineering consultants to assist GVWC In the
procuremet process including bids evauation rlated to the water supply component
Procurement doc    ion for all transactions under IDA financing In excess of US$300,000
equivalent will be subject to prior review by IDA. Agreements have been obtained th   ()
consultants for engineering design and supervision, studies and training will be selected following
the Bank/IDA guidelines for selection of consultants; (ii) Bank's Sample Bidding Documents,
Letter of Invitation, and Sample Consultants' Contract suitably modified, will be used for
engaging suppliers, contractors and consultants; and (iii) the provision of the Consultats
Guidelines requiring prior IDA approval of short list, selection procedures, letters of invitation,
proposals, evauation reports and contracts will not apply to cona  estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent each. Sample bidding documents and LOI package for the selection of
osultants have been discussed and agreed with SLRA and GVWC. Mem following table
summarizes the procurement aangement which are shown in details In Aannx.Z4



.22-
hfpemmnt AiLA      untt 11
(US$ mIllin)
Compont                         ICB            LCB          Other        Total
I.   a*iviWorks
Comnxuity/Slum Upgding                       1.67                        1.67
Market Improveint                             2.82                        2.82
(1.80)                     (1.80)
Roads                           13.04                                    13.04
(8.10)                                   (8.10)
Wate Supply                                   3.45                        3.45
(2.20)                     (2.20)
H.  Eaimn and Veles
Solid wat disposal                                          0.44          0.44
(0.44)       (0.44)
GVWt-s leak detecton
and others                       3.18                       1.49          4.67
(2.00)                     (1.15)        (3.15)
SLRA's offic equpment
and vaebicle                                                0.31          0.31
(0.21)       (0.21)
FCC's m nta   equipt.,
material and odters              1.0A                       0.48          1.50
(0.50)                     (0.40)        (0.90)
IlL  ThId ufiddK2Iw&wLhUR  Jie
Supervision
SLRA                                                      1.00          1.00
(1.00)       (1.00)
GVWC                                                      0.90          0.90
(0.90)       (0.90)
Studies                                                     3.40          3.40
(3.40)       (3.40)
SLRA SuWpot                                                 0.65          0.65
(0.65)       (0.65)
FCC Support                                                 0.63          0.65
(0.65)       (0.65)
IV. PP     m R1.5d 1lS0                                                           1.50
(1.50)       (1.50)
17.24         7.94         10.82         36.00
(10.60)       (5.10)       (10.30)       (26.00)
I jAmounts in          mfinncedby DA.



-23-
E. Dlbhursants
4.19   Ite proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against the fllowing categories:
Di*bnMM
(US$ million)
Catsgory                    IDA Amut          % of Expeditwe to be Financed
L Civil Wozkg
Community/Slum upgading                       1.10        100% of forign cosm and 80% of
local costs
rket improvement                              1.80        100% of fo"p costs and 80% of
10ca costs
Roads                                         6.So        100% of forig cost and 80% of
lowd cos
wa_t Supply                                   2.20        100% of forncoas and 80% of
loal costs
IL loipment and Vehicles
Sold waste disposal                           0.40        100% of forign cos and 90% of
local cost
GVWC leak detectio equipment, vehicles        2.90        100% of foreg osts and 90% of
and ohes                                                  local cost
SLRA offic equ ent and vehicls                0.20        100% of foreign cosu and 90% of
loca CoOs
FCC mainance equipme  and odters              0.80        100% of foreign coat and 90% of
lmdoa osts
Sup Terei  Assison ceConsultntSencos
SLRA                                        0.90        100%
Vwc                                         0.80        100%
Stios                                         3.10        100%
SLIA suppt                                    0.60        100%
FCC spport                                    0.60        100%
TV. PPF Rofwd                                    1.50
V. i,locatl                                     2.60
law                                          26.00



-24-
4.20   nho esdmated disbursement schedule for the proposed IDA credit is shown in A :s= 4A.
i8 faster ta the profile for Bank/IDA-fnanced urba project in Africa, which reflec the
advanced preparation and action taken to expedite procurement in anicipation of the MDA credit
as well as the Implem_on arrangements thahhave been made. The closing date of the
proposed redit would be June 30, 1998.
4.21   To expedite project implementaon, two speci accunt covering approimatelyfour
months of eligible expendies financed by IDA will be established at a commercial bank(s)
authorized to deal in foreig curreny and operated by SLRA and GVWC. Advances not
exceeding US$1.0 million and US$0.6 million will be made to the respective SpecW Accounts of
SLRA and GVWC after the declaration of credit effectiveness. The special accounts would cover
all categories of expenditures and will be replenished on the basis of application for
reimbursements made by SLRA and GVWC with relevant supporting documenion and bank
statements. Reimbursement requests will be submitted to IDA on a monthly basis irrespective of
the amouns involved. IDA-approved and eligible contracts for: (i) civil works less tha
US$100,000 equivalent; (ii) goods less than US$20,000 equivalent; and (ii) consultancy
contracts, training programs, studies and courses less than US$20,000 equivalent will be
disbure on the basis of staements of expenditres (SOEs). SLRA and GVWC will maintain all
aconting records icuding supporting documents of SOEs.
F.   I& Accounng and Audidng
4.22   The accountng for project expenditures and special account transactions inluding
sttments of expedures would be m ianed by SLRA, through the PMCU/PIW, and GVWC
for their respective project components. Areement has been obtained that SLRA and GVWC
will have the proje  accounts, special aCOuntS and statement of exeditur  audited annually by
qualified independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that the audited acounts together with the
to' reports will be submitted to IDA not later than six monh after the close of thi
fscalfinaa year.
G. tect RL porng. Monitoring and Sugpgeris
4.23   SLRA, through PMCU/FIRP and In coordnation with GVWC, will prepare quarterly
progress reports coveing al project components within one month after the end of each quarter.
These reports will include:  ) progress achieved against agreed Impl Ion and
disbursemet schedules and key perbrmance indlcatos; and (i) work programs and cost
for the coming quater and for the tot projecL The main ppoe of the reports will
be to provide timely and updated information on implementation of project components,
hiligt  issues and problem areas, recommending actions and commentng on progress in
resolving previous recommendations. SLRA, in coordination with GVWC, will prepare a
completion report within six months of the final disbursment in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Repordng requirements and key performance indicators bave been agreed with SLRA and
GVWC. Agreement has been obtained that SLRA will submit to IDA copies of all consultants'
rort and studies finacd under the proposed project.



- 25 -
4.24 Agreement has been obtained that there will be review missions by IDA held annually
from the date of credit effectiveness during which the status of the entire project will be reviewed
in detail. During these reviews, particular attention will be paid to: (i) the compliance with
covenants, particularly the financial and audit covenants; (ii) the progress of implementation of
the project components; (li) the implementation of GVWC's metering program and a water tarffl
structure based on metered consumption; (iv) the status of the solid waste management
component; and (v) thAe progress of the SLRA's PMCU/FIRP and FCC's Maintenance Unit The
annual reviews will be jointly carried out with the Government, SLRA, GVWC and FCC.
Coretive mesures may be proposed as a result of these reviews including necessary
modifications {n the scope of the proposed project. The proposed supervision program for the
project and key performance indicators for monitoring the progress of the project are shown In
Annex 49.
H. Enviro     tal Aspet
4.25  All project componets will have a substantial positive Impact on the environment of
Greater Freetown. The slum and market upgrading components will directiy improve the
environment and quality of life of the most deprived areas of the City. Improvements to the road
systom will reduce travel times across the City decrease the occurrence of trafflc jams, and
therefore reduce air and noise pollution. Improvements to the storm drainage system will control
the heavy flows of surfac water during the wet season which will effectively reduce the erosion
of soils from the higher parh* of the City. Improved water supply to Freetown and particlarly in
the project areas will help improve personal hygiene and reduce water-borne health hazards.
Covering open drainage in segments of the roads financed under the project and providing
walkways for pedestrians will ruce pedestrian-vehicular conflict.1he expansion of the solid
waste collection and disposal system will generally lead to a cleaner city, and improve the
operation and management of disposal facilities, thus reducing air pollution, visual degradaton
and the polluton of the Siesra Leone River.
4.26  An envionment imp  study has been cried out for the proposed project which is under
envirmental Category B. Ilis study, which Is hglighted in Annex 4-1 identifies a number
of short-term impacts during the project construction period such as noise, dust, disruption of
activities, as well as the need to relocate a small number of dwellings in one of the six community
upgrading areas (Kroo Bay) and in one of the six markets (Bombay Street) to be Improved under
the project. Agreement has been obtained that the mitigative measures and action plan, shown in
Annex 4-10, will be canried out during project implementation  the, satsfaion of IDA.
4.27 With regard to the relocation of persons affected by project implementation, the
Governments policy, in planning for the necesary relocations, is to ensure iO tdat as few people
as posible are displaced by project activities; () that they should not be worse off as a remlt of
project Ilemention; and (ili) that relocatees are able to share in project benefit. Substal
eff   and progress have been made by FCC and the various Government departments conced
in preparing and finalizing the relocation plans for the residents to be affected in the Bombay
Street Market (1 dwelling with 16 persons) and Kroo Bay slum area (4 dwellings with 65
persons). The authorities have held discussions with the people to be relocated, idendfied the
state 'and for resettlement in Kroo Bay area, awsed the costs involved for the relocation and
included fimding provisions In the Government/FCC budgets to complete the relocations by end-



-26-
October 1993. During the negotiations, the Government/FCCISLRA confirmed O) that
relocations will be required in Kroo Bay and Bombay Street Market areas; (Ii) that the
Government has set aside a sum of Le 40 million to cover all anticipated costs of relocation of
affected dwellers (65) in Kroo Bay including compensation for loss of assets, removal expenses
and cost of provision of alteaive accommodation; CiM) and that two areas of Government land
in the Kroo Bay area have been set aside for the relocatees which wil allow them to benefit from
the project. In addition, they confimed that the Freetown City Council (FCC) has discussed with
and made avaiable to the affected persons (16) in the Bot.nbay Street Market area the options of
O) provision of rental  mmodation to be rent-free for one year, (d) allocation of unit(s) at the
Kissy low-cost housing project, and (ii) allocation of plot(s) of Government land on a site and
service basis, and that FCC has set aside Le 2 million which is considered more than adequate to
cover any of the above options. The action plans for the relocations at Kroo Bay and Bombay
Street Market agreed with IDA and included in the Minutes of Negotiations. The
GovernmentlFCC/SLRA have agreed to complete to the satisfaction of IDA the agreed relocation
plans by October 31, 1993.
4.28 As regards solid waste management, the proposed project has a limited objective in the
short term. It provides for the acquisition of 50 garbage containers, 2 sldp trucks and supporting
transport vehicles to handle solid waste collection and disposal in the slum/market areas.
Preseny, there are problems with rat infestation, odor and fly mnisace and entry by
unauthoried persons at the landfill sites at King Tom and Granville Brook  Short term measu
under the project includes fencing of the sites. For the longer term, the possible closure of
Granville Brook and the introduction of better management practices such as the provision of inert
cover and compaction should be investigated. Ihese aspects, which were discussed with DOHSS,
will be reviewed in the solid waste management study financed under the project and could be
considered for financing under a future urban project.
4.29 The provision of public toDilets and ablution facilities should improve sewerage disposal
and hygiene in the project area. Drainage improvement in the project area could lead to increased
flow of sulage jnto drains and septic tanks in the unsewered areas. Where the sullage effluents
flow into drains, these are discharged untreated into the bays with the attend   health and
poilution hazards. The sewerage and drainage study being financed under the supplemenay PPF
(7-1-SL) would identify, among other things, appropriate treatment methods to enhance waste
management to minimize health risk in the area. This study is expected to form a basis for a
water supply and sewerage project to be appraised by the end of 1993 (para. 3.4).
V. GVWC'IS FlINANCS
A. BoFlhnadalornu
5.1    A summary of GVWC's financial performance is highlihted in the table below and
detailed in Annexes 5-1 to 5-3. In reviwing GVWC's past financial perfrmance, its financial
staements have also been restated in 1985 constant prices by reference to the annual averg
movement In the CPI from the 1992 IMF Statistics.



- 27 -
GVWC's Historical _aal Fefornaue
OA million)
CPI Factors                    0.34   5       7       11      23      47       77
Ne Revenue-nominal             3      41      79      85     151     293      730
constant           11      8      11       7       6        6       1S
Opemting Expense - nominal      1    29       33      45      72      144     260
constant      5      5       4       4       3        3        5
Opeang Income - nomial          1     10      43      34      70      115     379
constant       5      2       6       3        3       2        8
Excage Losses - nomnl                 29    -116    -205    -915    -303      -195
constnt         0      5     -17     -19      -39      -6       -4
Not _no/1oss - nomina           1     25    -128    -206    -968    -289       63
constat         3      5     -19     -19      -42      -6        1
Retum oan Aveap
Net Frxd Asss %                1S      4      12       7       4       4       10
Accns Receivabl (days)        3S     28       26     284     184     106      180
Debt as % of Debt/Equity ml
(w/o exchange los) (%)        42      65     117     143    206      464      351
&I Based on anl revauation of fixed asss since
la reaution in 1986.
5.2   The average annual revenue growth of 115% In nominal prices between 1982 and 1992
was due mainly to tariff increases during this period. However, in real prices, revenues
decreased by an annual average of 8% between 1982 and 1991, which was attibutable to the faH
in volume of water consumed. 2/ As water consumed remains fairly constant between 1991 and
1992, the revenue increase of 149% in constant terms was due to the tariff increase.
5.3    Operating costs increased in nominal prices by an annual average of 50% . However, in
real terms operatng cost fell by 11% between 1987 and 1991 and rose by 81% in 1992. This
fail in operating costs between 1987 and 1991 was due to shortage of foreign currency when
GVWC could not procure essenta high cost items like chemicals and spare parts. With the
imprved financial and cashflow peromance in 1992 and access to foreign cumecy, GVWC's
importation of chemicals ineased by about 144% and spare parts by 267% from 1991.
2/    Investment Stray Report ppared in 1980 estimated the levels of leakage within dth supply
system to be 40%45% of waw produced and cut e _tmat indicate this to about 54% in
1992



-28-
5.4   The company had an annual average of Le 4 million in operating income in rea tems (Le
229 mill in nomina prices) between 1987 and 1992. Ihe total e losses of LA 1.5 billion for
period 1987 to 1992 were due to the exchange losses totalling Le 1.7 billion resulting from
massive devaluations of the Leone. The return on avenge ne fixed assets in opeaton on
revaued basls increased from 4% In 1987 to 12% In 1988 and then declined to an annual average
of 5% between 1989 and 1991, before inreasng to 10% in 1992.
5.5   GVWC has not been able to service its debt obligations due to the depreciatin of the
Leone and the relatively low internally-generated cash which totalled Le 212 million between
1987 and 1992. As a result, GOSL negotiated successfully on behalf of GVWC to reschedule the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) debenture loan with a current outstanding
baance -f Le 2.1 billion (£2.6 million) to September 1995, when debt service will commence to
repay the loan fully over 10 years. With the decree amendment abolishing the tax exemption
status of GVWC with effect from April 1, 1993, and, as a result, in order to safeguard the
fincial viability of the Company, the Government and GVWC have agreed: (a) that the
Government wIll convert the Le 1.2 billion debt forgiven by Caisse Centrale into equity and (b)
that it will pay in full by June 30, 1993, the receivables totalling Le 226 milion due from various
government deparments as at Januay 31, 1993. In re, with effect from July 1, 1993,
GVWC will service: (a) for a duration of 2 years, the remaining African Developmeat Bank
(ADB) loan balance of US$92,727.27; (b) for a duration of 5 years at 3.4% interest, the total of
Le 301 million net due to GOSL for Le 108 million net paid to ADB by GOSL (i.e. Le 748
million paid to ADB less Le 640 million paid into the Public Debt (3xternal) SinkIng Fund
Account by GVWC) plus the total arreas of Le 193 million up to June 30, 1993 for the Caine
Centrale loan (Le 6 million) and Le 187 Million due to the Islamic Developmet Bank; and (c) all
import duties and taxes arising from impots under the proposed project on the same terms and
conditions as the subsidiary loan related to the IDA credit. Execution of these financal
arrangements wilU be completed before credit effectiveness.
B. Water Tafdfs
5.6   Currently water charges are based on the volume of water consumed for metered
connectons, mainly for commercial and industrW customers and on property values for the non-
metered domestic customer. The metered  om ers currently pay Le 2500/1000 Ig
(USS4.50/1000 Ig) while the non-metered domestic pay Le 10 of amnal rateable value. The
present tariff struture pendizes the metered customers who contribute about 90% of total revenue
for cnming only 10% of the water sold and the trend in tariffs is provided in the tariff history
in the Annex   and the comparatives of the commercial/industrial ;t   and the non-metered
domestic are as follows:



-29.
Metered                 Non-metered
Year                    US$/lQOOIg                 US$/lOOOIg
1989                       1.85                       0.02
1990                       2.72                       0.05
1991                       3.53                       0.04
1992                       5.00                       0.05
5.7   While the metered tariffs maintained an upward trend between 198992, the non-metered
actaly declined by 20% in 1991 from US$0.05/10001g to US$0.04/lOOOIg before increasing
again to the 1990 levels of US$0.05/lOOOlg in 1992. Agreement has been obWined ha water
ages for non-meered domeic cusomers will be incr d from Le 10 to Le 20 of anal
rateable value(ARV) effective November 1, 1993. Since the metered customers already bear an
unproportlonately high contributin to mrenues, the tarff for tis group will remain unchanged.
5.8   Agreement has been obtaned that, wih the completion of the universal metering program,
GVWC will implement a new tauiff structure effective from November 1, 1994 as recommended
by the o ional and fincial review study of GVWC and agreed with IDA (para. 4.8). The
new tariff will be based on universal metering and a key element of this metering system is to
ensure accessibility to water and affordability especially by domestic consumers. With regard to
affordability, the tariff structure would allow for a 'lifeline' tariff for all domestic consumers.
5.9   The financial proections In Annexes 5-5 to 5-8 have assumed the following average tariffs
to cover GVWC's opeating expenses, debt service and to contribute to its capital investment
Average Tariff      Average Tariff
Effective Date                             (Le_1OOOIg)        (US$_OO_ Ig)
By November 1, 1993                            464                0.77
By November 1, 1994                            615                0.96
By November 1, 1995                            750                1.10
By November 1, 1996                            900                1.24
By November 1, 1997                            1050               1.36
By November 1, 1998                            1125               1.38
By November 1, 1999                            1200               1.38



-30-
C. Bifng gnd CollqWo
5.10  Motered customers are blled monthly according to metered consumption. Dometic
customers are billed annuly according to rates linked to property valuation assessed by Freetown
City Council. Payments are made at the company head office.
5.11 The receivables position as reflected by the amount of collections is poor. The
receivables days between 1989 and 1992 were, 284, 184, 106 and 180 respectively. The metered
consumers account for about 90% of these receivables. The major constri  facing OVWC is
that it has no enforcement machinery to ensure settedment of arrears, for instance (a) it has no
colection/cut-off mechanism with a large segment of domestic consumers who are not comected
but access water through their neighbor's connections; and (b) the Government departments, who
are major customers of the cotporation, have arrears of La 226 million which are still outanding
as at Jamuay 31, 1993. As mentioned in para. 5.5, the Govermment has agreed to setde this
outstanding balance by June 30, 1993.
D. Accounting and Auditing
5.12  The company prepares the foilowing financial statements for internal purposes: (a) amnal
budget with actual revenues and exenditures compared with budget amounts on an annual basis;
(b) montly cash budget which idicates the liquidity of the company for capital expenditure
purposes; (c) semi-annual financial statements; (d) monthly revenue stateme  to provide the
cashflow position; (e) cash balnce statement including investments at varkc.s banr; and (t) a
capital budget which highlights the company's projected investment program.
5.13  The accounting and reporting systems are adequate but can be improved in particular
through computerization and creation of a management information system (M.I.S.) which would
incorporate the above statements and also provide for quarterly comparatives of the revenues and
ependitures with the annual budgets and ensure that corrective measures for any variances are
adopted during the course of the year. The M.I.S. would also assist GVWC in its fixed assets
and inventory valuation and control. Agreement has been obtained that GVWC will submit to
IDA its annual audited accounts, together with the auditors' report not later than six months after
the close of the year. Such annual accounts and long audit repons will also include the project
acounts, special accounts and statements of expenditures (pa. 4.22).
E. GWVC's Financing Plan
5.14 GVWC's estimated financial requirements during the execution period of the proposed
project FY93-97 and the sources from which they would be met are summarized in the table
below:



- 31 -
GVWC's Enojo Du EX I'm
La             US$
Mm             Slion            AL
Proposed Project                      4,752.00           8.64          26
Future Project                        11,550.00         21.00          64
Interest During Construction            541.00           0.98            3
Total construction cost        la32                              93
Increases in Working Capital           1,656.00          3.09           7
Total Application of Funds     i9-2              33390
Soure of Eud
Proposed IDA Loan                     3,850.00           7.00          21
Future Loans                          5,775.00          10.50           31
Proposed Government Contribution
For import taxes, duties and interest  5269.00.
Total Borrowing                14.2.W
Interna Cash Generation               5,052.00           9.19          28
Less: Debt Service                     14L07.                           I 8
Net Inteal Cash Generaion             3,645.00           6.63          20
Total Sources of Funds               18.539.00          Mu71           a
S.15  The above table Indicates that, over the period 1993-97, GVWC's Aet internal cash
operation would total about US$6.6 million equivalent which would contribute 20% of the
financing requirement. It has been assmed that the water supply component of the project for
GVWC would be financed by IDA in an amount of US$7An mfllion, or 90% of the costs net of
duties and taxes and that the remaining 10% by GVWC's internal cash generation.



-32 -
F. Fldal rWgW
5.16   Us project f&acial statements for years 1993 to 2000 together with suppoting
assumptions are shown in Annexes 5-5 to 5-8. The summary of the projected fiancial
performanco of GVWC is highlighted in the table below.
GVWC-Summary of ProJected Finandal Prwformance
1993   1994   1995   1996   1997    1998   2000
(Le Million)
Revenues                      1085  1369   1781   2471   3114   3815   4807
Operating Expnses             498  1017   1332   1648   1804   1985   2522
Operat  Income                431   195    280    637   1072   1539   1S18
Interest                        4    20       68    234    248    253    446
ncme Tax                       147     0       0       0       0      0    360
Exchange Losses               983   266    322    601    561    626    648
Net lcome (Loss)              -703   -91   -111   -202    264    659    463
Operating Ratio (%)            54    86       87      83      71     64      67
Retur on Average Revaiued
Net Fixed Assets in Op.(%)   113.9   3.2    2.0    3.3    5.0    7.2    8.6
Accounts Receivables          183   146       90      60      60     60      60
(debtors days)
Debt as a % of Debt + Equity    202    31     51      62      62     60      58
(inc.exchange losses)
Debt service coverage ratio      -   4.4    4.4    2.6    3.4    4.6    3.5
(%)
S.17  The above mnual revenue increases reflect the level of tariffs which are required to
achieve the above return on average revalued fixed assets in operation, and the increase in water
available to consumers as a result of the reduction in water losses from the leak detection
program. 'Me detailed assumptions underlying the tariffs and water loss reduction are shown in
Annex 54.
5.18  The taxation of GVWC with effect fom April 1,1993 will result in tax liabilities of Le
147 million and Le 360 million in 1993 and year 2000 respectively. However, there are no tax
liabilities in the period 1994 to 1999 due to the high capital allowances arising from the proposed
investment progrm.



-33.
5.19   l  opatig rado forth perod 1993 to year 20  hs an ual average of 72% with
1994's rado projectd at 86% due to the 1700% revaluation of the fixed asss. II& Iap
s In the rauation rflect the len devaluaton of 1700% beaw    tO last fixd s
rluadon In 1986 and the project rvaluadon In 1993/94. Agemen has been obtid tha
GVWCs fied aset wil be revaued In 1993/94 and   h yea thereafte.
S.20  The lhproving opatg positon of the compa  In the period 1993 to 2000 X
highlighted by the annl increasm in operat  ingome which reach a cumulative balance of Le
7.8 bilion in year 2000. However, the ae Income s reduced by the cumulative balance of Le
4.6 billion In exchge losses In the same period.
5.21  The retur on average revalued net fixed assets in operaion falls to 3.2% and 2% in 1994
and 1995 due to the large fixed assets revaluation (para. 5.19) and then  rease  to 5% and 7%
in 1997 and 1998 befor reachig 8% In 1999 and yea 2000. GVWC has agreed to adjust ftue
tSf to ma        thes minimum       of retn on nnay nvalued net fixed asse In
operaton.
5.22  Wi GOSL agreing to pay water chges wit  30 days of blinp and witbth ability
to se the disconnecdon  cilky as a lever to improve collections after universal metring 
Implemented with ef   from November 1, 1994, the company agreed to meet the above target
for accounts receivables.
5.23 T high debt to equity raio of 490%  1992 fa11s to 202% n 1993 wth the oversion
of the Calm Cntrale debt to equity and fl even further to 31 % in 1994 when GVWC rvalues
Its fied son and pays off the ADB loa of US$92,727.27 and commences debt service of all
the oloas. Ite Increase in borowing from 1995 reflect the IDA and future loas.
Te comn    has agreed to maina a debt servic coverage of not less than i  dmes.
5.24  Th level of tarffs b adequate to ear at least 8% of rate of retur on aveg not fixed
ses In opeaton from 1999 onwards. With these minimum retrns, the company wvI be able
to finne  about 20% of Is capital Investmen program between 1993 and 1997 and have a debt
service coverage of at leas 3 and accumulate cash balances of approximately Le 1.3 billion
(US$1.7 million) by 1997.
VI. aRQ1=  sI=&N. AM RZSK
A. &rlld Beneits
6.1    As discussed In pars. 2.26, the pxLposed project would be a key element in the
implementation of the Governmeas urban development strategy supported by IDA, which enils
a three-pronged approach, namely: (a) repairing and upgrading the most deficient infrastructure
facilities and sevces in the major urban centes as a result of a decade of neglect; (b) prepaing
longerterm plans for adesing the needs of these centers; and (c) developing an instiutonal
capacity to sustn such infrastructure facilides and to meet the growing needs of the urban
population



-34-
6.2   The ommun      um upgrading component would drcty improve the health and living
enviomnt of some 96,000 people through the provision of improved sanitation, drang,
access, water supply, and solid waste diposa. It would provide construction work opotuite
for reside, as weiU as hygieno ad health education and trining in the constuction and
maintenance of on-lot saniay facUldes. Ihe market upgrading component would direcdy
bene  tho  ealt and byglene of all users of city center markets, possibly 25% of the total
populatin or some 200,000 people. It would also Improve the health, economic and commrcal
situatdon of market traders, and eane the Freetown City Council's revenues geated fom
market
6.3   The roads component would provide urgendy needed improvement to urban roads and
roadside drains, which will improve traffic circulation, reduce damage to vehicles, improve
pedestrin safety and circulation and reduce environment degradation caused by uncontrolled
flows of sufce water. lhe traffic management improvements would direcdy reduce cross-city
travel times, giVing eoonomic benefits to transport users and opemtors, and reduce the incidence
of accident. Furtemor  imprved tffic circultion will reduce fuel consumption, decrease
vehicle maintenace costs and therefore reduce foreig currency requirements for imported fuel
and spare parts. The water supply component would improve the operational efficiency of the
existing system; strengthen the techical and commercial operations of GVWC; and ensure a
supply of potable water to the residents of beneficiary slum areas and upgraded market.
6.4 By establishing a self-contained maintenance unit within City Engineer's Department of
FCC, the proposed project would develop a capacity within the Council to carry out, as a
mdnimum, the routine maintence of the infrastructure facilities and services in Greater
Frewn, including roads, markts, sanitary facilities, etc. This would help sustain the facilities
provided under the project. lhe organiaon and financial review study of FCC financed under
the project would defie the various options for FCC to strengthen its finmces as well as to
oranize itself to better disbcharge its functis. Other studies included in the proposed project
would address future inDroc"  needs of Freetown as well as other major uan centers.
B. B"-aft Allevation
6.5   Ihe proposed project would have a direct impact on poverty for the lowest echelons of
society in Freetown, by improving their health, hygiene and capacity for economic activity.
Direct employment oppotunities would be available in the construction of roads, water supply
and the upgrding project, most of which will be undertaken by local contractors and/or
. The City's economy which will grow as a result of the improvements to traffic
circulation and road safety will benefit all levels of society including the urban poor. The
establisment of the medium and log-term strategic plan will enable future investments to be
targeted much more accuately towards economically disadvantaged sectors and groups offering
fiture opportunities for poverty alleviation. With respect to women-in-development, the proposed
project would have a substatia direct impact on women who represent practically all the vendors
at the six city markets to be improved and account for a disproportionally high representation
among the residents in the six community/slum areas to be upgraded under the project.



-35-
C.        _
6.6    Details of the economic anaysis together with notes and asumptions ane shown in AM
6*1. Only those project components with quandfiable benefits have been evaluated. lhey are: (a)
community upgrading for Brookfields, Congo Market, Ginger Hall, Kroo Town/Kroo Bay,
Susan's Bay and Mabella areas; (b) market upgrading for Bombay Street, Kroo Town Road,
Guard Street, Garrison Street, Kennedy Street and Smythe Street markets; (c) water leakage
detion for GVWC; and (d) urban roads and traffic management component. Among expectd
bnefts, only the qunfiable beneft have been meaured. Cost streams include cvil works,
equipment and macie, engineering design, physical contingencies and provision for operation
and maintence costs. Financial cost and benefts are epressed in US dollars at March 1993
prices, and economic costs and benefits are expressed In International border prices (in US
dollars) at March 1993 prices, and adjusted by the general conversion factor of 0.93 for Sierra
Leone. The ERRs of the above-mentioned project components are discussed in the following
paragaphs. The combined ERR of these components is 34%.
6.7    Community Upgrading ComMonent. Benefits have been quantified In terms of property
value increases. Based on a sample survey in the six target communities and their comparable
areas with proper infistrucure services, the property value would increase by 25% with the
project, resulting in an ERR of about 21%. Sensitivity analyses indicate that with 10% reduction
in property values in target and comparable areas, the ERR would be reduced to 14%; with 10%
increase in capital investment costs, the ERR would be reduced to 16%; with 10% increase in
operaon and mainteance costs, the ERR would be 20%; and with all of these three incidences,
the ERR would be reduced to 7%.
6.8    Market Ugding              Bensefts have been quantified based on increases In rental
values (or market charges) of the six markets with the project. Present rental rates charged by
FCC on traders/vendors in the markets are low. According to private real estate agents, it is
likely that the rental value of the markets increases by 200% with the project. Ihis increase is
affordable even for traders with low daily sales, i.e., they will pay about 18% of their profit for
the increased rents. Discounting them for 20 years yields an ERR of 13%. With the rate
increase by 100% instead of by 200%, the ERR will be reduced to 4%; with 10% Increase in
capital investment cost, the ERR would lower to 12%; with 10% increase in operation and
maintenance cost, ERR would lower to 13%; and with all of the three incidences, that ERR
would be reduced to 3%.
6.9 Leakage Detection Component. Benefits have been quantified by savings of water losses
arising from implementing the leakage detection component which includes repair after the
detection and valued at an average tariff rate of Le 475 per thousand Ig which will be effective in
1994 when the initial benefit of the component begins to accrue. The adjusted financial rate of
return, where costs and benefits were adjusted for tax and duties and the general conversion
factor, is estimated at 28%. Sensitivity analyses indicate that with a 10% increase in costs, the
rate of return would be 25%; and with a 10% reduction in the volume of water saved, the rate of
return would be 24%. A combination of 10% increase in costs and 10% reduction in the volume
of water saved would lower the rate of return to 22%.
6.10   Ura R       and Traffic Management Cmn     . Benefit streams have been measured
in Vehicle Operation Cost (VOC) savings plus time cost savings by passengers. The VOC



-36-
savings arise from Inraed spe  and better surace cond8on. ERR s high at 47% as cn be
apected for utban road rebiliation and traffic management wodr In a congested city. Withu
the benefit of passenger time saving, ERR would be 45% since the passenger tim  values were
asumed to be low. With  mely negatve assumption of no traffic growth and no surace
dey, ERR would still be at 38%. With 20% Increase in capital Investment coos, ERR is 42%.
With all of the the negative icidences, th ERR would be reduced to 32%.
D. Met" Risks
6.11 The proposed project would be the first attempt at Implementing an integrated
n Iasuctural rebilitation/u  development project in Sierra Leone. The major risk
8steming from such a project is associaed with the capacity of the Inplementing agencies to
mane and coordie the implementadon of a nunber of secral activites in parallel. Whie
GVWC, with its long history of capable technical performance, is expected to manage well the
implementation of the water supply component, SLRA, a recenty established semi-auomus
entiy and headed by capable top management, will require support to implement the rest of the
proposed project. Thus the permance of the Project Management and Coordination Unit
(PMCU/FIP) of SLRA (reporting directly to is Drector General) would be critical to the
success of the proposed project. The establishment of this Unit and appointmet of is Project
Maae just before the negotatons, and the appointment of its key staff (ocal counterpart
Asitant Project Mager, Engineer/Prcrment Specialist and Project Accountant) before credit
effectiveness (para. 4.5), would minimize this major risk. Another risk is related to the
avalabiiy of counterpart funding; to minimize this risk, the Government will establish before
credit effectivenm a project account for the proposed project with an initial deposit of Le 200
million and wil m     quatly disb   n into such account to cover requwired payments
int project exnde  ar  3.9).
6.12   Analyses have been made of the impact of possible Implementaon delays on the
combined ERR of 34% (par  6.6) of the proposed project. These analyses, which are shown in
Annex 6-1, indicate that this combined ERR would reduce to 28% if ptoject implementation is
delayed by one year. It would furiher reduce to 24% and 21% if project implementation is
delayed by two and three years, respecdvely.
VIL A               REACEED ANDI.
A. mnts Recd
7.1    Agreements have been reached whh the Government, FCC and SLRA that:
(a)    an orational and financial review of FCC will be completed by Decomber 31,
1993, under the terms of reference satisactory to IDA (para. 2.25);
(b)    a structure plan fr Greater Preetown winl be completed by September 30, 1994,
under the tems of reference satisf&ctory to IDA (para. 2.27);



-37-
(c)    a solid waste sector review for Greater Freetown will be completed by March 31,
1994, under the tem  of refeece satiaty to IDA (par. 3.4);
(d)   a traffic management study will be completed by December 31, 1994, under the
tms of reference atsfctoy to MDA (pam  3.4);
(e)   subjec to the finding and recommendadion of the organizational and finanal
review of FCC, FCC will establish the Maintenance Unit and appoint the
Municipal Engineer with qualifications satisfactory to IDA by January 31, 1994
(paras. 3.4, 4.11 and 4.12);
f    the Govenment will onlend US$7.0 million equivalent of the proposed credit
proceeds to GVWC fo 20 years including a grace period of 5 years at Bans
standar variable rate for the mlementation of the water supply cmpone  and
will capitalize the Inerest during construction as well as related duties and taxes to
be repaid over the period of the subsidiary loan (pam 3.8); the Goverment
would make the remaini  credit proceeds (about US$19.0 million equivent) to
SLRA for the implementation of the remaining project component (para. 3.8);
(g)   the Government will establish a project account with an ial deposit of Le 200
million (para. 3.9);
(h)   SLRA will appoint the Engineer/Procurement Speciist and Project Accountant of
the PMCU/FIRP by June 30, 1993 and appoint the Assistant Project Manager by
Juy 31, 1993 (para. 4.5);
Oi    FCC will implement the agreed acton plan to involve the residents of the afected
communities during the implementation of the project (para. 4.13);
3I)    DOHSS will ensure that the solid waste collection and disposa facilities be
properly operated and maiained, and that the project areas would be serviced
satisfactorily (para. 4.14);
(k)   all procurement of goods through ICB under the proposed credit will be exempt
from preshipment inspection for pnee by the Government nominated inspection
agency, but quality and quanty Ipecdon i cUld be done by the agency (para.
4.17);
f!)   consultants for en8gineing design and supervision would be appointed in
accordance wit Bank/IDA guidelines and Bank's Sample Bidding Documents,
Letter of Invitation and Sample Consultants' Contract suitably modified will be
used for engaging suppliers, contractors and consultants (para. 4.18);
(m)   SLRA will have the project accounts, speil account and sant of
expenditures audied annualy by independent auditors aceptable to IDA (par.
4.22);
(n)   SLRA will submit to IDA copies of all consult-.nts' rqeorts and studies fiaced
under the proposed project (pam 4.23);



-38 -
(o)   annual project reviews will be held annually from the date of credit effectiveness
(para. 4.24);
(p)    SLRAIFCCIthe Government will carry out the plan for the mitigation of potent
mental harm during the course of project execution (parm. 4.26);
(q)    FCCISLRA/the Government will implement the detaied action plan for the
relocation of affected people (para. 4.27); and
(r)   the Govemment has finalized the fincial arrngements with GVWC (para. 5.5).
7.2    Agreements have been reached with GVWC that:
(a)    GVWC will raise water charges for non-metered domestic consumers to Le 20 of
rateable value by Novembe! 1, 1993 (pa. 5.7); Implement a new tariff structure
based on metered consumption effective November 1, 1994 (para. 5.8) and adjust
tariffs from time to time to enable the company to earn a rate of retrn of average
revaued net fixed assets in operations of not less than 2% in 1994/95, 3% in
1995196, 5% in 1996/97, 7% in 1997198, and 8% in 1998/99 and thereafter
(para. 5.21);
(b)   GVWC's accounts will be audited annually and will be submitted to IDA within 6
months afler year end, and such accounts and audits will also include the project
accounts, special account and statement of expendires (paras. 4.22 and 5.13);
(c)   GVWC will revalue its assets annually beginning witi its financial year 1993/94
(paa. 5.19); and
(d)   GVWC will maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.S (para. 5.23).
7.3   Beiore credit effectiveness;
(a)    The Government will execute the subsidiary loan agreement with GVWC
satifactory to IDA (para. 3.8);
0b)    The Goverment wiUl establish a Project account with an initial deposit of Le 200
million (par. 3.9);
(c)    SLRA will appoint the Procurement Specialist, the Project Accountant and the
Assistant Project Manager of the PMCU/FIRP (para. 4.5); and
(d)   1he Government and GVWC will execute the agreed financial arrangements (para.
5.5).
1.4   Subject to the findins and recommendations of the organiional and financial review of
FCC (pia. 2.25), tie establishment of the Maienamce Unit and appointment of the Municipal
nSInee by FCC will be conditons for disbusement against the equipment and matials for the
Unit (pars. 4.12).



-39 -
B.   1        _
7.5    Based on the above agreem, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR
18.4 millon (JS$26.0 million equivalent) on standad terms to the Republic of Sierra Leone.
Western Africa Department
May 11, 1993



-40-
Am 1
Page 1 of 4
~1RRA IQNI
FREEIrVWN INFASTlLWTTURE
UIRBAN SEciroa  RO
EioponL ad UrbaUmation
1.    Current esimates put the population of Sierra Leone at about 4.5 million ihabitans with
only a third of this figure being economically active. Compared to figures obtained from the
1974 (2.7 million inhabins) and 1963 (2.2 million inhabitants) censi, there has been
considerable increase In the past eighteen years, as shown by the difference between the
iAercemal growth rate for 1963-1974 (about 2%) and current growth rate (about 2.4%). The
populion has been found to be relatively young, with a low standard of educatlon, experiencing
high birth and death rates, relying largely on subsistence agriculture and demonsg a bigh
tendency to move to urban cents. Analysis of the 1974 census data shows that about 21% of
Siem Leoneans lived in settlements with population of 5000 and above, with Freetown alone
accounting for about 50% of this population. Recet esdmates (1990) indicate that, the urban
population has inceas  to about 32.2% of the total, with Freetown accoung for over 50% of
this population. It has been Intimated (althougb not substantiated by detailed surveys) ht the
growth rate of the population in Freetown has reached alarming propordons and is far in excess
of what was recorded during the most recent intercensal period (4.5%). This is mainly due to the
effects of the civil war in neighboring Liberia and the pressure on the affected rural population to
reach the relative safety of Freetown, and partly due to inability to sustain development in the
provinces.
2.    Added to the very restrictive land temnre system, and also a situadon where buying agents
minimize prices paid to farmers for their agricultura produce (mostly ctoffee, cocoa, cassava,
palm oil, palm kernel and giger), the high prices paid for basic commodities, food, medicine,
housing and education reduces net income to the extent that ftrated young men and women
abandon the villages in hope of better opporunities in large urban centers - maidy Freetown.
The situation has been made wotse by the war in Liberia and insnt attacks by rebeLs in Sierra
Leonean terriory. The flight of rua dwellers to Freetown has put tremendous pressures on the
very limited social facilities available. Due to the compact nature of the centr part of Freewn,
new immigrants have settled to a large extent in the eastern areas - Kissy and Wellington and in
selected sections of the west, notably Brookflields and Congotown. However, proximity to jobs
and other income generating venres have made formerly vacant areas in the central part, such as
Swsa  Bay, Mabella and Xroo Bay vulnerable to migration pressures. These areas are now
healy populated, and due to their vulnerability to naural forces, such as storms and high tides,
have been developed as high density slums, with minimum investment in superstruc   A ree
survey ficed by IIDA in 1992 has found the following population densities and building
conditions in the 14 poorest settements in Freetwn:



-41-
Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 4
SEM.LEM                    DENST pp/lb  CONDITION OF BUILDINGS
Broowkields                      714   *              Fair
KpamaK;ng George                 625                  Poor
Congo Market                     972   *              Fair
Guard Street                     233                  Fair
Ginger Hal                       667   **             Fair
Up Gon                           357                  Fair
Kanikay                          636                  Poor
Old Wharf                        282                  Poor
George Brook                     175                  Poor
Mount Aureol                     687                  Fair
Kissy Brook                      823                  Poor
Kroo Bay                         1200   *             Poor
Susan's Bay                     1814   *              Poor
Mabella                         2742                  Poor
Settlements marked with a double astisk are those selected for permanent improvement under
FIRP on the basis of high population density, whie having a relatively substntial housing stockl
hose marked with a single asterk are those chosen for temporary upgrading on humanitarian
grounds. The one exception to the mle was Mount Aurweol, on account of its small size (approx.
1.6 ha.) and reatively better enromal conditions, which reduced it's overal ranking.
3.    It is difficult at this stago to predict fture buizatio patterns in Sierra Leone on
account of the war, however, with the recent Impwvement In the economy and effbos by donor
groups in the rural areas, coupled with the near to impossible situation of migrants making decent
living in Freetown, the end of the war will see a possible reversal of current migration patterns.
Pr-ofile of Freeow
4.    Freetown, capital city and main adminve, manufacting and commercial center of
Sierra Leone is located at the mouth of the Sierra Leone River and the Gulf of Guinea at a
latiude of 8%30'N and longitde of 13%20W. The city was founded at the end of the
eighteenth century as a home for freed daves. Us popul  increased rapidly  er independence,
rechig some 276,000 in 1974, compaed with 30,000 In 1891. The current esmate i8 in the
region of 800,000 mainly due to the war which has displaced many rura dwellers. Enjoying a
tropical climate with little tmperatre variadon (25SC in August to 291C in Aprl) its rainfal
patun depends on the movement of the Inter-Tropical convergence zone and amounts to about
4,000 mm annually. The City is linked to the rest of the world by a deep water harbor, an
inernational airport and a good road leading to the provinces up-ountry. Its industrial section is
expanding at a very fst rate, producing commodhies such as beer, mnals, confectionery,
csgres, etc. Apat from occasional muddides, the only seismic ewrience was In 1978, and
was recorded to be about 4.0 on the Richter scale. The city has a road network of about 118 km,
38 km of mapu roads, 40 km of coliectorldistlutrroads and 40 km of local roads. Most of
the mor roads and collecr/di   r roads hav aphtic conet surfg. Local roads are
surfco dressed. Howev, due to inadequate  nm     I the recent pas, the paved roads
suffer fom vaying degrees of pavement distress, with much of the major and
collectorldistributor roads dsowing signs of severe pavement distress.



-42-
Anne2I-
Page 3 of 4
S.    Almost all major roads originate or terminate in the Central Business District (CBD) and
ail east-west traffic must pass through the core of the CBD. Pavement deterioration plus the
absence of a CBD bypass coupled with pedestrian vehicular contlict paricularly in the vicinity of
markets has contributed to extensive delays in the movement of goods and services, damage to
vehicles and equipment, very high vehicle operating costs and loss of life due to accidents.
6.    Congestion is very high on the 12 km network in the CBD which also serve commercial
and business houses, Government offices, the port, markets, and the State House. The storm
drainage system where it exists, is adjacent to the main roads, and consists of some open and
some covered concrete lined drais, which appear to have been developed on a piecemeal basis,
in parallel with road construction works. They do not relate to any overall drainage scheme and
exhit a general lack of mantemnce. The sewerap system is very limited, serving only a smal
section of the CBD, and untreated effluent is discharged onto the shoreline. Otherwise, septic
tanks, pit latrines and the bush are used for disposal of human excreta.
7.    Sullage from houses is discharged into open drains and nearby waterbodies in a haphazard
manner creating insanitary conditions. A solid wastes management system has been established
with assistance from the Federal Government of Germany and is based on bulk collection using
removable skips and roll-arm trucks. However, the system has major shortcomings including low
skip collection frequency leading to refuse spilling over and around the designated collection sites.
Water sply is adequate for low lying areas in the west and cental parts of the city. However,
system extension has not been able to catch up with the rapid growth of the city to the east.
Excessive pumping costs have also reduced availability of water to residents in the high pressure
zones of the supply network.
B.    In general, most of the residents of Freetown live in unsatisfactory conditions, having
limited access to even the most basic amenities. The worst and most disadvantaged groups are
those living in depressed areas close to the seashore.
Urban Povety Profile
9.    The urban population in Sierra Leone has risen frvm about 9% of the total population
(1950) to 32.2% (1990). This increase was gradual until the start of the war in Liberia and
subse        rebel cursions into Sierra Leone, which have resuted in a mass exodus of people
into urban centers, particulaly Freetown, Kenema and Makeni. It has been estimaed that four
out of every ten Sierra Leoneans do not have access to safe drinking water and proper sanitation
facilities, the worst afcted commnies include certain depressed areas in Freetown particularly
Kroo Bay, Mabella and SusWans Bay. The living conditions in these areas are deplorable and an
outbreak of epidemic could lead to a national disaster. Additionally, there is a high incidence of
illiteracy among the urban poor, which hinders training and reduces their employability. Children
of those displaced by the war are unable to continue their education In the urban centers and
eventually become members of large unskilled groups which roam the city begging or looking for
menal jobs. Even ftough oppornities for education in urban areas are more than in the rural
areas, the percentage taking advantage of this facility is lower for the poor than for the average
utban dweller. Thus, in the urban area and perhaps throughout the country, not only are the poor
less likely to have ever attended schiool, they are also less likely to have attained elementary levels
of literacy and numeracy. Lack of education may be a contributing factor to povt for the
utban dweller If, as a result, indivias only have the opportunit to work in low wage acvities.
On the contrary, poverty may mean that the cost of sending children to school is too high. For



-43-
Annx 2-
Page 4 of 4
nstac, in some of the fishing communities In Freetown, in addition to direct costs for
education, sending a child to school reduces availale free labor for the business. This same
attitude is displayed when It comes to health. The urban poor in spite of available health servIces,
will visit a clinic or a hospital only when the situaton is critical. This may be preceded by visits
to various types of practitioners, from the herbalist to medical assistant or muse. The underlying
factor appears to be the affordability issue, though lack of awareness seems an equally plausible
explanation.
10.   Another feature in the life of the urban poor is a total lack of awareness of environmental
isues, as seen in the environmental abuse and physical degradation to be observed in the vicinity
of slum areas. Firewood is the main source of cheap energy and Its acquisidon is pursued
wiwtou any consideation to the regenerion capacity of the wooded area in question, leading to
large scale erosion particularly along the mountain slopes in Freetown. Lack of toilet and other
sanition acilities have meant defecating elwhere for both young and old. Suliage from homes
forms puddles behind houses or where slopes are steep, gradually erode the soil into nearby
streams and water bodies. The net result is coniued deterioration in e omental conditions.
These conditions are a result of Ignorance and financial inability to respond to environmental
issues. In a recent study, slum areas in Freetown were identified as the home of the bulk of
urban poverty in Sierra Leone. Examination of the relationship between the slum and other living
conditions revealed that (i) there Is a continued drain of income and other resources out of the
slum, and (ii) there is a continuing accretion of people Into it. Peras a third and more
disurbAing finding is the fact that people who are able to succeed evenaly move out, taking with
them a large part of fte entrepreneurship and skill that any substantial population group generaes.



Sierra Leone
Population 1990-2000
POPULATION (mMons)
6
5
42                                 -$-  -- M -
2~~~~2 
0
1990  1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000
Year
Urban Pop.      Total Pop.
Source, 08L Census of Pop. and Housing.



Freetown
Household Income
Leones ('000)
12                   MedIa. I ml" O (tee     ss-weIel t 11.000 puer meat
10
.. ...........
Settlement
_Formal  ffM  Informal  E} Total
I~~~~~~~~~~I
Kr!ByGne  alBsn  a              aiaCnoMre  rofed



-46-
Anne 24
Page I of 8
SIERRAlEN
OJETWN INFRA5RUCT1E REHILtTO MUMMA=
1m OERENCE
E-N
ORGANEU=? AND ElNMCIA RIEVIW
OF
W N(M  crrl OUf
I.    hiroducton
The Freetown City Council (FCC) require the services of a consultant to undertake a
review of its present operational and or ional efficiency and financial capacity, with the
object of identfying measures to improve its performance.
2.    Backgoound
Freetown is the capital city of the Republic of Sierra Leone. It Is siuted on the northern
seacoast of the Freetown Peninsua at the mouth of the Sierra Leone River. Greater Freetown
comprises a total of approximately 26 square miles and exend from Calaba Town in the east to
Juba in the west Ihe municipal area is divided into eigt wards and contains a total population
estated at between 0.6 to 1.0 million.
The Freetown Municipality Act 1973 contas the main stay pwvisons that govern
the powers, duties, and functons (FCC). FCC Is caged with undetaking a wide range of
functions and provision is made in the legislation for the Councl to raise revenue to provide the
resources required to fulfil its statutory responsibilities. Revenue is raised through user charges,
licenses, tolls, fees, fines, penalties and, in particular, the city rate. FCC is managed by a
Committee of Management under the leadership of a Chairman appointed by the Government of
Sierra Leone (GOSL).
The rapid growth in the uban population and lack of systematic maintenance of
Infrastucture in recent years, combined with the increase in demand for infrastructure and service
delivery has placed FCC's resources under enormous strain and it is no longer able to fulfil its
responsibilities.
3.    Objectives of the Review
The specific objectives of the review are as follows:
(a) Operational Review



-47-
Anex 4
Page 2 of 8
to provide a detailed review of the sttuory toles and other
responslbilities allocated to FCC;
to analyze the technicd and administraive performance of FCC in
carrying out its functions, In particular local Infrastucture and service
delivery;
to identify the extent to which other organizations are Involved in the
delivery of FCC's responsibilities;
to consider the ext  to which the functions of FCC could be more
efficiently delivered by private sector resources;
to provide options for delivery of FCC"s responsibilities and recommend
the options considered most appropriate.
(b)    Financia Review
to analyze the exitng sources of revenue collected by FCC and review
collection efficiency, and cost recovery for services rendered.
to review the existing financial administration of FCC, in partiuar its
capacity to undertake realistic financial plaming, determine investment
strategy, and identify any deficiencies In existing budgetng, accounting
and auditing systems;
to identify measures that will increase the revenue available to FCC,
including cost recovery measures, to estimate the potential revenue that
will result from implementing those measures, and to provide estimates of
the cost of the measures proposed;
to analyze the present level and type of Intergovernmental transfers
between FCC and GOSL and consider measures to increase the efficiency
and effectiveness of these transfers.
(c)    Organization Review
to analyze the existing staffing and other resources of FCC, their
organization and structure, and to identify deficiencies In matching
resources to needs;
to examine the existing management structure of FCC and review its
effectiveness;
to identify the resources and management structure required to facilitate
the implementation of recommendations regarding FCC's future
responsibilities;



-48-
AMw 2.4
Page 3 of 8
(d)    Genera
-     to ma  rcommendations for improvement to ovrcome deficienies
Identified from the review;
-     to prepare a timebound action plan (2-3 years) for the implementation of
the recommendations dealing with rationalization of functions,
organizona changes, staftig, aning and financing together with
appropiate terms of reference and detaied cost estimat.
4.    Sm  of Service
Ihe services of the consultant Shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
Consultio
(a)   to consult the relevant agencies of GOSL, particularly the Ministry of Internal
Affairs, to larief them on the study and obtain policy guidance that wil assist the
rpaon of recomm        ions for improvement to FCC;
(b)   bo meet with the Chairmn and Committee of Management and senior sta& of
FCC to brief them on the sudy and discuss the objectives and data collection
(c)   to meet with the Freetown Chamber of Commerce and other interested bodies
concerned with the effective operation of FCC to brief them on the study and
invite their views.
ah Collect
it will be necessary for the consultant to obtain the following data.
(a) For ea of the Iast  years:
(i)    FCC's Approved Budget Estimates;
(ii)   FCC's Audited Accounts;
(ill) detailed analysis of recurrent revenue collected;
(iv) detailed analysis of recurrent expenditure, and;
(v)    detailed analysis of capital expenditure
(b)    deail of currt assets and liabilities of FCC;
(c)    details of the various market dues, tolls, licenses, fees, city rates etc, currey
caged by FCC;
(4)    detIls of staff cumntly employed by FCC including the title of the post, the
duties of the postholder, grade, qualifications, experience, length of time in post,
and position in structure;



-49-
Ann24
Page 4 of 8
(a)    detas of accommodaon and office equipment available with an indication of its
adequacy;
(t)    details of other machinery and equipment currently held by FCC with an
indication of Its condition and efficiency.
In carrying out the data collecion part of the study the consultant will be assisted by
relevant iormation contned in recent studies carried out by local conSult, but the consultant
wil be responsible for verification of the data
Smd
(a)   the consutant wil briefly ldentfy the historical development of FCC and refr to
the evolution of Its current responsibilities. It will be necessary to identify the fil
extent of FCC's functions as prescribed by stamte and examine in det  any
existing deficiencies in delivery.
tb) the consultant should consider the present political, economic, financial,
administrative and legal environment within which FCC operates and ascertain the
utr   tentions of GOSL for local government in Sierra Leone in general and in
Freetown in particular. These will need to be reflected in any recommendations
for changt put forward by the consutant.
(c)   the exisdtng management strucre of FCC should be examined to ascertain its
effectiveness in delivering the responsibilities allocated to FCC. Impovements to
increase the effectiveness of management systems should be detailed together with
the strucure and organization of resources considered necessary to achieve the
required improvements. Appropriate delegation of decision making within the
management structure is considered to be an important aspect of the study and the
consultant will need to examine existing delegation of responsibilities and make
recommendations. In particlar, the provision and management of resources to
undertake essentia local infrastructure and service delivery must be carefully
considered.
(d)   the consultant wfll Identify a range of options for delivery of prescribed
responsibilities, together with the resources and orgaional requirements
relating thereto, including, for each responsibility, the two extremes of (i) FCC
discharging all its responsibilities through the use of its own resources, and (ii) its
responsibilities being discharged primarily through the use of private sector or
other resources under contract to FCC. The consultant will justify the selection of
the option considered to be most appropriate.
(e)    based on the foregoing the consultant should identify the activities that can
realistically be unuertaken by FCC and make recommendations for implementation
within a 2-3 year action plan. TraIing of existing staff is lkely to be an
important part of the recomirendations put forward for strengthenir of FCC's
present capacity. The scope for computer application to aist in the effecive
delivery of services and related management systems will be an important part of
the study.



-50-
Page 5 of 8
(f)   the consultant should pay padcular attention to the financil administration
system   p  y  opeat by FCC. lb. consun shoud review the raem
collection and acounti  sytm, expenditure cotd  account  systems, ad
present audit aagemegn. The existing sytems for the supply of rdiable and up
to dae iunfation on the fincial position of FCC to ssist magment docison
making must be carefully appraised. The present process of finmcial planing and
the preparation of forward irveatmetlapltal expenditure decision makmg should
be andyzed. the existing budget preparation system should be examined to
ascertain its effectiveness and recommendations made for improvements. The
scope for com     on of the financial administration system, particularly the
monioring md reportin sysems, should be considered and realistic
recommendatio-ns made.
(g)   the consultant Dshoud prepar tem  of refenc for th introducon of th
resources needed to Implement a c ensiv revison of the prse  fiancal
administration system based on the    mendo    pUt forward. t is anticipat
t  a suitably qualified Director of Fiance would be engaged by FCC on a
limited peiod appointm  (2-3 years) to implement the changes required. lb.
consultant should prepare terms of reference for such an appointment.
(b)   the consultant should also pay particular atention to FCC's present caiy to
plan, finance, maunage and maintain municipal works throu the Engineer's
Deparmen Existing staff and equipment must be analyzed to determine the
ffectiveness of this part of FCC's operation. The conula  should put fward
proposals identiying te nature of works t  it is considred dsuld be
undertaken by FCC either directly or thrugh the use of private sector rsources.
lie consultant should prepare terms of reference for the inoduction of a
reorganized Wors Department and the establishment of a Mantenance Unit with
detais of the key staff and other resources required and the organization and
management arrangements considered necessary for implementation. This
Mainenance Unit will be managed by a Municipal Engineer to be provided under
the IDA financed Freetown Infhastructure Rehabilitation Project, and will be
responsible for the toutine maintenac of infastructure facilities in the City
(roads, markets, drainage, etc.). The consultant should also assess the possibilities
for the Unit to expand its responsibilities to include periodic mai ce of roads
and the resources required would be identified.
(J)   the consultant will prepare a timebound action plan (2-3 years) for impleme on
of the recommendaions put forward with detailed costs estimates for each phtase
of the work to enable the client and the World Bank to appraise the proposals.
5.    QUM  and deliverables
In broad terms the consultant will provide the following outputs:
(a)    details of the findinp derived from the review together with reco ds for
achievable improvements;
(b) detafls of a realistic 2-3 year action plan to implement the recommendations;



-51-
Page 6 of 8
(c)    details of th esdmated cost of Implementing the improv es .commended.
In pardcular the consultant will provide the following detais to support the foregoing
(a)    a deiled description of the futions allocated to FCC together with presen
performnce analysis;
(b)    detdls of existing constaints affecting the capacity of FCC to meet its
responsibilities;
(c)    a detaed description of the existing management stuce of FCC together with
an analysis of its effiveness and efficiency;
(d)   summies of the data collected together with analysis of that data and conclusions
dived therefrom;
(e)    a description of the present financial position of FCC based on trends in revemne
and expenditure over the last 5 years;
(t)    an outline of the options available for performance of FCC's functions and
justification for the consultant's option selection with detailed recommendations
for improvements in the stucture, organization, management, resources and
revenue of FCC together with an analysis of the esmated costs involved;
(g)   fiorecast, statg assumptions and data sources, of the financial position and
capacty of FCC over the next 5 years if:
(i)    no change takes place and current trends continue, and;
(ii) the consultants recommendations are implemented.
(h)    details of a timebound action plan (2-3 years) to implement the recommendations;
(i)    details of performance targets/indicators that can be used to measure
improvements;
0)    details of any legislative changes needed to achieve the recommendations;
(k)   tem of reference for the key staff and other resources required in the financial
and Sening deparments of FCC;
O)    any further studies considered necessary by the consultant to achieve additional
lmprovemr'ts in the capacity of FCC together with appropriate terms of reference
and cost estintes.
All cost estmates should be expressed in US Dollars and classified into foeign and local
comPonens oand taxes, and the phasing of costs will be shown on the timebound action plan.



-52-
Annexo
Page 7 of 8
6. stam .mffiag End respnibiilkm
The consultant wil provide the following key pofessional staff to work as a team for the
review:
(a)    Muicipal Finance Anayst
O)    Municipal ILstitution ADalyst
(c)    Municipal Engineer
Based on the work to be undertaken to achieve the objectives of the review, i s estimaed
that the professional Input required will not exceed 10 man months. However, the consultant may
wish to comment on this and submit proposas for modification.
The consultant will provide other support staff neede to undetake this study including
local searl staff. The consultant will be responsible for makin apoprie arrangements for
communication, transportadon, office equipment and other facilities reired to complee the
rview.
7.    R Dning
T'he following reports shall be submitted by the consultant:
(a)   Inception Report - This report must be submitted within one month of the
commencemnt of te consulq services.
-b)   lIteim Report - This report must be =avle within three months of the
commencement of the cosultancy services for review by the clentI.he Itedm
Report shWd contain:
(')   the results of the consultants research to date together with prebnary
conclusions and recommendations;
(ii)   details of the future work program required to complete te Drft Pial
Report;
(iii) an outline of the contents of the Draft Final Report, and;
(iv)   details of key issues that need to be resolved before the Draft Find Rort
can be prepared.
Ten copies of the Interim Report should be prepared and the consultant wIll be
required to discuss the report with the client and follow guidance given with regard to the
preparation and content of the Draft Final Report.
(c)    Draft Final Report - Tbis report must be available within 5 months of the
commncement of the services for comnieration by the dient. The Draft Fi
Report shod contain:



-53-
Ame 2^4
Page 8 of 8
(D)   all the outputs and deliverable desribed above with paicular emphasis on
the acdon plan and cot estes; and
(jii)   executive summary of the main fiding and recommna     and;
(lii)  all upportg documontation, tables, grapbs, charts, and associated
commenty.
Twenty copies of the Draft Final Report should be prepared and sent to the client.
Ihe consultant will be required to discuss the report with the client and make amendments
and additions where necessary.
(d)   Final Report - Following discussion with the client, the consultant wil prpeare a
Final Report (20 copies) within six month of the comenemntof the seices
which will comprise the Draft Fimal Report modified as neesay in the light of
gauidnce from the client.
8.        ities to beprovded by the client
The client will provide relevant data within its possession upon the request of the
consultant, and wil ensure that such data Is accurate and supplied as quicldy as possible. The
consultant will be given access to the source material where requied. The client will ensure that
the consultant has access to all staff who will be required to cooperate in interviews and in the
proviion of information.
ahe client will provide copies of all relevant reports prepared by its own staff or
consultas that deal with the management of FCC andlor its effectiveness in fulfilling the
responiblties allocated to it. In particlar the client will make avaiable to the consultat repor
receny prepared by Edwards Davies and Associates concering Inastructure Rehabilitation in
Fretn and report recently prepared by Genac concerning the Property Rating System in
Freetown and proposals for a revaluation and other improvements designed to enhance revenue
mobilization.



-54-
Page I of 5
OUTLlE TMOM OF REFEltENE FO  StRUC   PLAN
INVESI? EROARW ZAREA1=N STtm
Bukawd~~~~~~w
1.    The infrastructu  needs of the City of Freetown are enormous. n all physical sectors,
facilities are below an acceptable standard, throughout the City and, particulady in the settements
housing the lower income residents. Additionally at present, with limited exceptions, no statc
plans exist to address the present or futre overall service needs or needs wit  sectors.
Responsible instdtons are unprepared to meet the massive task which faces them. In response to
this challenge and charged with the task of dimensioning a project to address the infiuctre
needs of the City, each of these facts has been taken into account. lhis has resulted in the
formlation of a project design philosophy, based on the following premises:
(a)    Physical measures are urgently required to stem the tide of deterioration and to
improve the environmental quality, and the quality of life of the residents.
However, these physical measures should be limited to those which contribute to
possible long-term developments.
(b)   Long-term plans should be formulated for each of the physical sectors, to enable
the design of more major projects to address future needs which will result from
natural growh and rural to ura migration.
(c)   Institutional responsibilities for the development of each of the sectors must be
clarified, and those selected institons must be strengthened to meet the
implementation, operational and maintenance needs of the sectors under their
control and to be prepared tD meet the incaed needs of the fuure.
2.    The basis of the Freetown Infrastructre Rehabilitation Project (FIRP) is a two-part
strategy: a) to cater for the most urgent infrastructre needs of the City, and b) to prepare an
inastucture investment program to cover medium term (15 year) requirements for further more
comprehensive rehabilitation and the requireme  for new infrsructure to meet the needs of
urban growth and continuing rural to urban migration.
3.    The strategy will be achieved by implemeting a three-part project to deal with the
Infrastructure needs of the City, which will have the following components:



-55-
Amex 2-5
Page 2 of 5
(a)    To address the major and most urgent infrstuctua deficiendes of the City by a
program of repair, rehabilitation and upgrading oslum areas, markets and the
urban road and water supply systems. Taclding first the highest priority and most
urgent deficiencies to Improve the living environment and socio-economic
conditions of the urban poor, which will not preclude options for redevelopment
in future to be defined by a medium to long-term planning process.
(b)   To provide technical assistance, traini  and essenti matials and equiprmnt In
key departments of sectoral agencies, to begin the process of institational
development of these agencies and to prepare them primarily for the task of
opeating and maining the Improved facilities to be provided under Part (a) of
this strategy.
(c)    To put in place a strategic planning framework to determine the medium and
longer-term growth characteristics of the City, to enable the preparation of
sensitive and appropriately dimensioned development programs for future yeas.
4.    These terms of reference address the third of these components and outdine the
requrements of a comprehensive study and investment program preparation exercise.
ablec0
S.    Ihe principal objectives of the propo    study will be:
(a)   to sess past and predict future demographic trends to determine growth patterns
and forecast future population figures to cover residential, commercial and
industral growth;
(b)   to carry out a land-use and land capability assessment to determine areas avaiable
to accommodate future growth and those areas suitable for re-development;
(c)   to prepare a stucture plan for Greater Freetown with 5,10 and 15 year time
horizons to indicate how growth can be acoo        in spatial terms;
(d)   prepare a prioritized overal development strategy to meet structure plan target on
the basis of immediate, medium and long-tetm goals;
(e)   from the development strategy, calculate infstructre and institutonal
requirements based on ultimate population figures to form the components of
fiuu  ifastructure development progams to meet the defined goals, wih an
emphasis on building Implem on and operation and maeance capacity;
(t)   prvpare a detailed lnvestment progrm to address the short-term (5 year)
Infrastructure needs of the City; and
(s)   prepare indicative investent prorams to address the medium (10 yea) ad
longer term (15+ year) needs.



-56-
Annex 2-
Page 3 of S
Scop of W 91k
6.    To achieve the objectives stated, the consultant will be required to cover tasks including,
but not limited to, the following:
(a)    Analysis and assimilation of previous planning studies and current/proposed
studies, eg. the Traffic Management Study to be undertaken within FIRP.
(b)    Population studies and forecasts.
(c)    Socio-economic studies and forecasts.
(d)    Study and forecast requirements for futre industial facilities and job creation.
(e)    Study and forecast requirements for future commercial and public market space.
(f)    Carry out a study of existing ihfastructure, including industrial, commercial and
social facilities, to determine appropriate land-use and density parameters.
(g)    Calculate and prioritize needs and prepare immediate, medium-term and long-term
development programs.
(h) Prepare detailed cost estimaftes for the immediate development
program.
(i)    Prepare an economic evaluation of the immediat development program.
(j)    Prepare an implementation schedule and a tentative financing plan for the
immediate development program.
(k)    Prepare tentative cost estimates for the medium and longterm development
program.
O~)    Assess instituional capacity to meet the needs of the immediate development
program, and propose measures to increase this where necessary.
Consultant S&rcm RoqMied
7.    To ssfactorily address the objectives and scope of works required under this demanding
sdy, the services a multi-disciplinary team, from a consultancy organzation or consortium of
constltancy organizations will be iecessary. The to-am proposed should as a minimum include the
following skills:
(a)    Project Management
(b)    Demography
(c)    Urban Planning
(d)   Instituional Speciizadon
(e)   Inastruc   Engineering
()    Land Surveying



-57-
Annex 2-
Page 4 of S
(g)   Finacial Analysis
(h)   Economics
(i)    Communit Development Ehpertise
7.    Strong emphasis should be placed on the development of indigenous skills within Sierra
Leone to be able, in future, to tackle such comprehensive exercises. Therefore, an important
aspect of this study will be the training of local counterparts. Additionally, this study is to be
used as a vehicle to improve the skills of the local consulting industry and therefore the
involvement of local firms and professionals should be maximized.
Memgm apd uegn1
8.    lhe day-to-day management of the study will be the responsibility of the Sierra Leone
Roads Authority (SLRA), and the main peson responsible will be the Project Manager
(PMCU/FJRP) acting on behaf of the Director General. However, for the overall management
of the study a steering committee will be established, whose membership will reflect all the public
sector bodies responsible for development within the City, and most importantly, the Private
Sector and interested Community GroupstNGO's.
9.    In order to track and monitor the progress of the study, the steering committee will
require the following Reports:
(a)   an InMto         one month after the commencement of the study, which will
smmuarize the situation found by the consultant, and provide a fuly detailed
workplan and staff in-put schedule. Any major departure from the work program
and staffing schedule included in the consultants tecical proposal should be fully
Justified.
(b)   a Draft Struc=re Plan Report four monfts after the commencement of the study.
This will be a presentation of the structure plan prepared by the consultant team in
graphic and written form. After discussion at steering committee level and
incororation of any required modifications, the plan will go forward for formal
adoption.
(c)    a P1 ualren Plan Bo=  five months after the c nent of the Study.
(d)   a Draft Investment PrDg  Rem t eight mondt after the commencement of the
Study. This report will set out required investments by sector, with a priority
ranking, into short, medium and long-term investments, for discusion with and
adoption by the steering committee.
(e)   a Draft Final nvestment Program= RetQ  eleven months after the commencement
of the study, which will propose a detailed short-term, 5 year, investment
program, by sector, together with a financing plan and economic
evaluaon/jufication. The report will also include tentative medium and long
term investment programs.



-58-
Annu2s
Page 5 of S
(f)    a EIFLw         twelv monhtl after the commencement of the Study, which will be
based on the Draft Final Investment Plan Report, Incorporating comments from
the stewing committee and GOSL.
10.   In addition, the consultant will be required to submit rguar monty progre  report to
SLRA, describing the progress of the work in comparison to the approved work program, staff
movements, logistic issues and hi{ghlight issues likely to adversely affect the progress of the study.



-59-
Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 12
SIERRA LEONE
Fit M:OWNiI                     REHAlIAlXON Po
1.    The Preetown Infrastructre Rehabilitation Project consists of a number of integrated and
muualy supporive sub-components intended to improve living conditions and economic
opportunities for the least economically advantaged residents of the City, while preparing agencies
involved in the City's administration fr the longer term challenge of becoming self-sufficient in
fnancing, creating, operating and maintang the infrastructural services of a major population
center. The Project will also provide tecnical assistance required to prepare a structure plan for
the city over the medium term, which will identify projects and programs required to realize the
objectives of the plan.
2.    Descriptions of the components of the project are as follows:
L  Urban UJg.dng
3.    This component wiU comprise the upgrading, by improvement of physical facilities and
infratructure in six of the most deprived areas of the City, six of the most important and well-
patronized City markets, and assistance to the Department of Health and Social Services for
garbage collection in these areas.
O) Conmnuni1y Slum Upgrading
4.    Community slum upgrading will comrse of a two part strategy, tailored to the particular
features and needs of the two different types of slum areas found in Freetown. The first Is a
typical deprived urban community, an area of traditionally pemment midence, ofte conai
a large proportion of substanti pmanent dwellings, which due to lack of maitnnce and the
poverty of its residents, has over the years deteriorated to a point where major permanent
rehabilitation works are required. Such areas identified in Freetown include Brookfields, Gingsr
Hall and Congo Town. Under the Project these areas will receive improved access in the form of
new and upgraded roads and footpaths and improved connections to the main City road system.
These roads will also be provided with lined side drains to cater for surface and storm water
flows. Water supply will be providedlupgraded to ensure that all residents have access to a ready
supply of potable water, through standpipes or individual house comections. Sanitation will be
improved by the installation of improved ventilated pit-latrines on a per household basis, and the
provision of muld-purpose public sanitary facilities, with provisions for both deftcation and
ablution. Attached to these multi-urpose facilities wil be centalized refuse collection containers
and access for refuse collection, cleansing and maintence vehicles.
S.    The second type of slum area is much more marginal residential areas, occurring
principally close to the seashore, occupied by in-migrants. Typically the dwellings in these areas
are of temporary nature, constructed of scrap materials and are vulnerable to fire and tempest.
Due to the marginal nature of these areas for residential use, a fill, permanent upgrading is not
recommended until such time as a resettiement alterative is available. However, the most



-60-
Annsex 3.1
Page 2 of 12
dilapidated of them, Susan's Bay, Koo Bay and Mabella, provide a home for some 39,000 of the
City's poorest Inhabitants and, therefore, cannot be ignored. The proposal for these areas Is to
provide adjacent units which will include piped, potable drinking water, garbage disposal and
collection facilities, multi-purpose sanitation units including washing and toilet facilities. Most
import  wIll be the provision of vehicle access to enable the proper servicing of these units.
Such units will be provided In locations where other adjacent communities can also enjoy benefits
while awaiting a more permanent upgrading.
6. Specific project activities are as follows: acquisition of about 4.5 hectares of land in the
six areas to accommodate toilets, standplpes and wastes collection containers; rehabilitation of
about 2.63 km of roads in Brookfields, 2.83 km in Congo Market areas, 2.97 km in Ginger Hall,
1.83 km in Kroo Bay/Kroo Town, 0.66 km in Susan's Bay, and 0.41 km in Mabella, details of
which are shown in Table 1; reconstruction, lining and repairs of parts (3.4 km) of secondary and
tertiary drainage systems in the six areas with emphasis on drains along roads and drains needed
for effective sullage disposal which by far constitutes a major health hazard in these areas; water
spply through repair and consiction of standpipes, and extensions to the distribution mains to
alow connections for domestic supplies; in all 33 existing standpipes will be repaired and 46 new
installations made as shown in Table 2; provision of 11 public toilets and 6 ablution facilities (see
Table 3) together with the necessary on-site disposal arangements, and ventiated pit latrines
(VIP) in selected areas; provision will also be made for the location of 50 refise containers as
follows - 14 for Brookfields, 12 for Congo Market area, 8 for Ginger Hall, 8 for Kroo
Town/Kroo Bay, 3 for Susan's Bay and 5 for Mabe:la.
fi1) Market Impmt
7.    The market upgrading component will tackle the present unhygienic and dilapidated
conditions found at six of the main markets and one slaughter house in the centrad area of the
City. ITese are Kroo Town Road Market, Garrison Street Market, Kennedy Street/Kissy Road
Market, Smythe Street Market, Guard Street Market and Abattoir, and Bombay Street Market.
8.    Presenty, the condition of these markets Is severely run-down and the buildings
themselves have deteriorated to the point where they are in parts structurally unsound and present
a danger to the public. In general, the buildings though in many cases architecturally attractive
and well worth preservation are not internally well-organized for the large volume of traders and
cus.omers they are required to deal with, this results in an overspill of traders into the adjacent
streets, and consequent congestion and disruption to vehicular and pedestrian traffic. Perhaps the
most serious deficiency of these markets Is the lack of facilities for personal hygiene, for the
washing and preparation of food products and for the collection and disposal of garbage. The
project wil improve accessibility, public health facilities and arrest the deterioration of market
buildings.
9.    The project will Include the following: provision of potable water supply for personal
hygiene, drinking, washing of foodstuff and premises operation of toilets, and includes provisions
for storage in sensitive locations such as toilets and abattoirs; structural repairs to buildings to
cater for damaged roofs, unsafe suspended floors, damaged stalls and kiosks, cracked walls, and
potholed ground floor slabs; provision of toilets and multi-purpose ablution facilities, Including
the relevant on-site treatment, units such as septic tanks and soakaways; garbage collection and
disposal facilities; site drainage and disposal; provision of access roads for shoppers and service
vehicles, including the neeary arrangements for vehicles to turn around; walkways to enhance



-61-
Page 3 of 12
intemal circulation; loading, offloading and parking facilities; improvement in aesthetic values and
preservation to retain the character of the city. These measures are considered to be emergency
actions needed to Improve environmental conditions without any prejudice to future studies of
suitability of present market location within the city.
I) Sold Waste fManaent
10. To complement the efforts of the ongoing KFW financed solid waste management project,
the project will provide two solid wastes collection vehicles (skip trucks) and 50 skips disbuted
as follows: 2 for each of the six markets; 14 for Brookflelds, 8 for Ginger Hall, 12 for Congo
Market, 8 for Kroo Bay/Kroo Town, 3 for Susan's Bay, and 5 for MabelWa (Table 4). These
skips are to be standardized at 5 cubic meter capacity, and specifications will be written to
procure appropriate collection vehicles. An Important featLre of the collection vehicles is that
their payload to volume ratio should be equal to the density of refuse under consideration, since
compaction In the skips Is negligible. This is to ensure that undue stresses are not put on the
vehicles' power transmission systems. In addition to spares, two pick-up trucks will be purchased
for the monitoring unit of the Department of Health and Socil Services (Environmental Health
Division) responsible for supervising the private contracor. To properly establish a basis for
future assistamce in this sector, a study will be undertaken to assess the current situation and make
proposals for the future.
H. RehahltaionWpradln  of Access Roads and Draiue
I1. Under the IDA-financed Read Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Cr. 2451-SL),
about 20 km of roads in the Central Business District will be rehabilitated. Tbis leaves a balance
of some 80 km of arterial collector and local roads. However, undl a comprehensive traffic
m^anagement plan has been proposed for the city, undertaking major road rehabilitation program
would not address the present congestion problem.
12. The project will therefore support activities identdfied for depressed communities and
markets by providing accessibility into these areas. Table S indicates 16.00 km urban roads
identified for the project comprising: 3.2 km of major arterial roads, located mainly on the
perimeter of some upgrading areas; 7.6 km of distributor/collector roads, which penetrate
upgrading areas; 1.6 km of collector/distributor roads, which serve markets to be upgraded under
the project; and 3.6 km of complementing arterial roads retained to ensure continuity of
improvement, and also to maintain uniform standards along the corridor. Three types of
interventions have been proposed for all roads under the project. Type I involves roads which
require rehabilitation, comprising sectional pavement strengthening, pothole patching, overlay,
drainage repairs and provision of walkways in areas of high pedestrian activity. Type 2 involves
roads which reqWure reconstruction, on account of very weak pavements and absence of or
extensive damage to drains and other draiage structures. Type 3 involves gravel roads which are
to be upgraded to paved road standards.
13. About 11.3 km have been identified as internal roads in the slum areas being upgraded.
As shown in Table 1, scope of works involves rehabilitation, reconstruction and upgrading of
gravel roads to paved roads standards in accordance wih design criteria established in table 6.
Distribution of these roads are as follows: Brookfields - 2.63 km; Congo Market - 2.83 kmn;
Ginger Hall 2.97 km; Kroo Bay/Kroo Town - 1.83 km; Susan's Bay - 0.66 km; and Mabella -
0.41 km.



-62-
Atmggqe 3-1
Page 4 of 12
14.   In addition to the above collectoridistribution roads have been identified as providing
access to the six markets being rehabilitated under the project. These are Keonedy and Adolphus
StreetsO for the Kenmedy Street Market, King William and Nana Kroo Street for Krootowi Road
Market, Magine Street for Guard Street Abattoir, Old Guard Stret for Guard Street Market,
GaTrison and Rock Streets for Gardson Street Market. To ensure proper co-ordination at the
implementation stage, these roads shall be packaged for tender together with the other road
works.
m. Water Suppfl Comfzn
15.   The water supply component is aimed at optimizing the capacity of the existing facilities
and improving the financial management of the Guma Valley Water Company. Specific activities
identified for the component are:
16.   (1)    To design and implement a leak detection and repair program in two stages.
Stage I involves the Installation of meters in selected locations, estblishme of regular
monitoring procedures to estimate night time leakages, visual inspection of transmission mains,
reservois, tanks, distribution and service mains, including repairs to all reported leakages. Stage
1I involves an ongoing program to extend the detection and repair program to other areas not
covered under the initial program and an overall visual inspection at six monthly intervals
including repairs of all reported leakage. Plant, equipment and material requirements for the
implementation period starting from November 1993 are indicated in Table 6;
17.   (ii)   To implement a universal metering program including mitigation measures to
address the accompanying soclo-economic Issues affecting about 70% of the popuiation who do
not have direct connection to the water supply system during the fist six months of the project.
Table 7 indicates existing domestic connections to be about 10,000 with about 23,000
unconnected. Under the proJect, these 10,000 connections will be metered; in addition 5,000 new
metered connecdons will be made and about 500 existing gtandpipes replaced, with provion for
addidonal 200 new standpipes for people whose regular sources of water will be lost, as a result
of the metering program. The metering program will be implemented in a ninemonth period and
the standpipe replacement and installation program will take about 3 years to complete;
18.   (iii)   To implement a small scale system extension program city wide, and this will
involve laying about 7.5 km of 50mm diameter, 9.km. of 80mm diameter, and 4.5 km of 100mm
diameter pipes over a 3 year period. This activity will also allow the extension of the water
supply system to serve the communities/slum and market upgrading areas identified under the
project. The first phase of this program will be implemented over a six month period, prior to
commencement of road and other works in the slum and market areas; and
19.   (iv)  to equip Guma Valley Water Company to properly plan and implement the
project, through provision of plant and equipment, vehicles, communication facilities, technical
assistance and office facilities, including computers and accounting/billing machines.



-63-
Page 5 of 12
IV. ha*_  E
(I) [Ea  &DMM
20.   Subject to the findings and recommendations of the organitional and financial review of
FCC, a maitenance unit wiU be established within the City Engivper's Department to maintn
the roads and buildings to be constucted under the project, and also serve as part of a long term
program to improve the service delivey capability of the Council. lhis would also involve a
traing program aimed at establishing systems and procedures for road maintenance, and
provision of the unit with basic road maintenance plant, and equipment. About 36 staff-months of
Municipal Egeer's input will be provided under the project to establish this unit. Povision has
also been made for taining of engineers and technicians in romad maitean  i ons home
and abroad. To assist FCC in responding more readily to fire outbreak in the upgrading area,
where most of the houses are wooden stuctures, two fire engines will be provided under the
project.
X1) SLR Su&d
21.   About 36 staff-onths have been provided under the project for the Project Manager to
head the Proje Mnagement and Coodiaton Unit (PMCU/FIRP). He is responsible for the
manage_m  and co-ordination of the various project acvities. Six vehicls wil be provided to
assist with day--day implementation and co-ordinatio issues. Provision has also been made for
office equipment and supplies including running cost for vehicles and training of PMCUIFIRP
staff.
V. Techni;l Assis
22.   Provision has been made for the following studies: 15 staff-months of professional input
for solid waste management study; 67 staf-months for Freetown struerl plan, 40 staff-months
for Traffic Management and Improvement study; 13 staff-months for organizational and financial
review of Freetown City Council; and 53 staff-months for project preparation studies for other
cities in Sierra Leone.



-64-                          Annex 3-1
Page 6 of 12
Sam
FREXTOWX INFNASTRUCTURE REMABILITAT!OW PROJECT
TABLE 1-1s INTERNAL ROADS
IN SLUM UPGRADING AREAS
Total      SCOe
Upgrading Area         Road NaM         Width      Length       of
k __      Work
BROORFIELDS            Bright St.              5.75       0.30      C
Hall St.               5.35        0.40      C
Janjue St.             5.40        0.10      C
Eleady St.             3.09        0.09      C
Beccles Ln.            2.80        0.21      C
Becoles St.            3.00        0.29      C
Shorenkeh St.          3.40        0.04      C
White St.              6.88        0.22      C
Mamah St.              5.70        0.16      C
Brown St.              4.30        0.11      C
Cgoo In.               5.10        0.56      C
Rock Ln.               5.40        0.14      C
2.62
CONGO MARKET           Heddle St.              5.20       0.11      B
Watson St.             4.90        0.06      B
Dougan St.             7.60        0.57      B
Athins St.             5.00        0.17      B
John Ln.               3.50        0.18      B
Edward Ln.             3.60        0.18      B
Sw2uer St.             2.90        0.08      B
loamy Ln.              2.20        0.07      B
Too Good St.           4.10        0.05      B
Sbm St.                3.90        0.08      B
Dick St.               3.60        0.05      B
Gilpin St.             3.70        0.05      B
Lawson St.             7.00        0.25      C
Sankey St.             8.49        0.11      C
Nicol St.              6.13        0.10      C
Phillip St.            6.70        0.13      C
Ferguson Ln.           3.70        0.19      C
Pratt Ln.              4.80        0.23      C
Peter Ln.              3.90        0.17      C
2.83
Legends B - Road Reconstruction
C - Upgrading Gravel Road



-65-                               Annex 3-1
Page 7 of 12
TAO1 I * I *mt iolyn I ZYANAL RSOAD SO;
iUs 11M UIONAD     &REM
9tUpqrad;                 Road *1e         width      Total      scope
AreaLegh                                                           o
km        Work
GIEGU  SALI           Bathan La.              2.97       0.38      B
Purcell La.            4.45       0.14      8
sockaris, La.          5.00       0.01      B
B1yde  La.             8.60       0.21      3
Dan LA.                8.25       0.19      8
Wicol Ter.             3.28       2.31      B
Metsger La.            4.10       0.33      B
Grant La.              4.19       0.13      B
mackay La.             3.00       0.13      8
Regina La.             3.25       0.16      8
Tity La.               4.70       0.08      3
EMly La.               3.00       0.12      B
Brown La.              4.00       0.10      B
Jubile La.             3.20       0.08      8
Wesley La.             3.90       0.21      C
Lemo  L.               4.10       0.17      C
2.75
XROO B&Y/XROO TOWN    Klng William at.        6.12       0.12      3
Nona Kroo St.          6.00       0.15      B
Little Kroo at.        6.45       0.16      3
settra Iroo St.        7.94       0.22      B
Grandoess St.          7.65       0.22      3
Jamboria st.           5.30       0.18      3
West Brook St.         5.30       0.22      3
Cape lalm. St.         5.72       0.56      3
1.83
SUSAN'S DAY           Bast Brook St.          7.29       0.21      B
Fisher St.             3.60       0.24      B
Zest Brook La.         2.62       0.14      3
Raook 8t.              5.00       0.07      J
0.*66
MIBZLLA               Kill St.                3.50       0.37      C
Old Guard St.          4.16       0.04      C
0.41
41TAL                                                   11.33
LBOUGES B - Road Reconatrzation
C - Upgrading Gravel Road



-66-                                 Anex 3-1
Page 8 of 12
u-ntity
AT"a              aet1a       Proposed     TotaL
lrooktiiald                      7            a         is
Cong Makot                      11            6         17
oingr 3.11                       2           10         12
Iroo Bay/Ireo TOwS               0           10        1i
812a1 aty                        4            6         10
'aela                          1            6          7
_. _____.____.___ .__        33           46        79
AIse, a           iic         abti           t
Area          hbo          it~*    U
_____ ____ _____ ___  oilets   YaaiU tie   _  __
!Srookii.ld                      2            1      v
Congo Market                     2            1      PA
Giner 3a1                        2            1      vL
troo 0ay/Kroo Tow                2            1      ML
Susa's Say                       2            1       L
jBbl1a                            1           1      IL
TOM                             11            6
St. OFM g   OU
In BLUM AREAS
ATa              OAd  te   am  site        Total      Ult
Drookgield                       4           10         14    EL
Congo Maket                      2           10         12    IL
GInger 3.1                       2            6          a    Rh
groo Day/1"o TOsM                2            6          8    IL
Susan's ay                        _                      3    EL
abella                            2           3            
Total                  -         121  3_                50 SO



-67-                                        Annex 3-1
Page 9 of 12
tn&y£-   mas *    3  flflfl  ea3U
I~ ~              55 _FI                                 I-I    I
Usea        i    Vibe  goad                            L.apb      "o                              Mre"" " I  t   Is"o  .1
l Aee g S | |to                                               *ks
l 10 1 I                 km                 km          km hm 1a  1
10.4 talvay to.           00     4.0        0.2           I     -           21          -
X" Bu    PA             01.69    0: 0$ .*                                   .eo               1
ll1Oy St.               0.24   5     30     _u a0.24
Uet St.             1   0.2S1   3.40                     0.2      -   I   _                  li/a
Seth at.                0.735   5.S11                   0.73    -   I   -              _       /C
IAOSSmay" St.           o         7.48   ~        I      0.50     -        -           _       /C
lleoovw  tIL.           0.95n    3.7s                   0.95                     I     _
"s  St.                 I-00      4.s0a0   E
"Ona &a.                 -S       §l                      -3      _        _l/
Con"Harket          jaavpbel 6t.              0.81   11.751    0.310         -         -   I           I     -
Du t St.              0.     |                          0.10      - _      - _                l_ la
1u0ca"  St:                       ::F, I-s   -°           -Sz               _-
Za e. "  t              :,$4  so  I o.60 I     -                            - ZP/a
PAS, St.            I   0.211   7.301                   0.21    - 5   -           5-          5/a
8Aytbe St.             o0.2sj   7.001    -    I    -    5   0.255                lSytbe at. IP/s
Gger  13              "saoy Rd.               1.50    10.450                   |-.5             0.1691 -l O.S| y st.lula
lies. Rah n St.    I   0.415   6.00          - _         0 .413    -   5   _                     A li/a
pp. raetat St.    I   0.45        4. 94      _     I     0.455    -   I    -    I       -     5W/S
I vI 3       4*94      _            0.371   -               I/s
I       sLaz3La.     I   0.0      3.60                   0.0I      - o  I   _           _       p/s
bey b ar St.         I   0,28 1   S.7S5      -     I    -    I   0.201    -    isoubey  t. II/a
tea St.                  O3S    5.S0         -          -    5   0.351    -    I ombay St. IZ/a
jSoatae_St.          1   0.16    6.555    _                       0-101           1sombay St. IP/9
ombur To.o at.          0.16    6.51J                            0--.1           isEmbay st. I wa
Sto" say/o. lomef  liree towa ad..        5   0.655   9-10 1    0650 1       -    I         I         I            IP/a
51vfoo *t    Se« at.   5   0.34     9.4      -           034      - _             I    _        i/5
chap  eSt.               0.17       .3                   0.1                  
-Wsnem say          l"uau"z se.           j   o0.091    .2461    -    I       0.091
asluesa  She.as St.                3.31                  0.1e I            _      I    -0li30
1         0.301   7.305      -    I       o.zo,   -~       ~~                ~~~~~~ 1  5/
toa            sl " at.                 0.28 I   6.50     0.280 |I   -   I |_                                 /A
lout eaaS.           I 0.195   4.165                     0.195 I       I                      I - 1/
I   I  16.01 I    I    3.1X33       7.64    1.591   3.617 1              1
.uuuus.      a - Rea RebebilUse sLa                  u - u^ero Road
S - RPAd Room.tzucueta                 P - Parsetrattoa boces  Roa
C - UpIadLag Gave  la                   2 -Itemal Rod



-68-                         Annex 3-1
Page 10 of 12
SIERRA LEONE
EREETOWN INFRASTRUC!URE BxHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLB 6
PLANT AND ZOUIPRENT FOR LEAK D8TECTION
Item No.          Item Description             Unit       Qty.
1.0 EQUIPMENT
1.1 1M Compatible 286 Computer          No.              1
U.P.S                                No.              1
1.2 rlow Loggers                         No.              6
Pressure Loggers                     No.              6
Cables, Software, Connections        No.
1.3 Pulse Unit                           No.              6
1.4 Flow Meter                           No.              2
1.5 Cable Locator                        No.              2
Surface Box Locator                  No.              2
1.6 Leaknoise Corrolator                 No.              1
1.7 Miscellaneous                        L.8         _
2.0 REPLACEMENT METERS
300mm dia.                           No.              1
200mm dia.                           No.             11
150mm dia.                           No.             35
100mm dia.                           No.             40
75mm dia.                            No.             20
50mm dia.                            No.             30
Spares
3.0 LEAKAGE REPAIR MATERIALS
1.0 DN 550 Steel Coupling                No.             15
DN 450 Steel Coupling                No.              6
DN 400 Steel Coupling                No.              6
DN 300 Steel Coupling                No.              4
DN 200 Steel Coupling                No.              4
DN 150 Steel Coupling                No.             20
DN 100 Steel Coupling                No.             40
DN 80 Steel Coupling                 No.             40
DU 150 OPVC Coupling                 No.             30
DN 100 OPVC Coupling                 No.            160
DN 80 OPVC Coupling                  No.            100
DN 100 GMS Coupling                  No.            300
DN 80 GMS Coupling                   No.            240
Dr-AC Stepped Coupling
DU 150                               No.             30
DN 100                               No.             50



-69-                        Annex 3-1
Page 11 of 12
SIsERR  LEONe
FRUMOUN INMlUUMBRC?TURE REHABILXTA_TON PR_OJEC
?aBLB 6 lEon't.)
Rh=NT mD nQUIPNBN! *OR LmEA DEI?ICw!ON
Item No.          Item Description              Unit       Qty.
DN so                                 No.            80
DI - CZ Stepped Coupling
DN 150 - 175mn                        No.            S0
DN 150 - 125mm                        No.            S0
13mm x 150mm Repair Bolt              No.          1000
13om x 200mm Repair Bolt              No.          1000
DN 300 Gate Valves                    No.             5
DU 200 Gate Valves                    No.            10
DX 150 Gate Valves                    No.            50
DN 100 Gate Valves                    No.            50
DN 80 Gate Valves                     No.            30
Air Valves                            No.            40
Fir. Hydrant
DN 300 Ball Valves                                    1
DX 150 Ball Valves                                    2
DX 100 Ball Valves                                    5
DN 80 Ball Valves                                     5
Jointing Sets                         L.S         _
Gasket Material                       L._
Gland Packing                         L.8
Bitumen Paint etc*                    L. S
Miscellaneous Fitting                 L.S    .
Repair Clamps                         L.S         _
Service Pipes                         L.S         _



-70-                          Annex 3-1
Page 12 of 12
SIgRRA LBONB
FREETOWNNINFRASTRUCTURB_REHA_ILITATZON PROJBCT
TABS I7
MATERIALS FOR METBR CONNBCTIONS
Item          Item Description          Unit   Quantity
Meters                           No.       15700
Meter Spares                     No.        S000
Elbows, Couplings etc.           No.       10000
Standpipes                       No.         700
Ferrules                         No.        5000
Stop Taps                        No.        5000
Saddles                          No.        5000
Connection Pipe                  No.       50000
Meter Testing Rig                No.           1



-71-
Annex M2
Page l of 6
OWE INFtASTIRUCTU BlLORO.AU
ma OF  RNCE FOR A REVIEW SIUDY ON 9Ll
1.    Almost 1.0 milo people are Iving in Freetown and its environs, rrsenting nealy
21% of Sierra Leone's total populaon, with the majority concentrated in densely populate
parts of the town. In these overcrowded areas, special attetion should be paid to safe solid
and liquid waste disposal. If necessary preventive measures are not taken or carred out aoly
rudimentarly, there is a very high risk of epidemics and constant health hazards. In this
context it shodd be mentioned that until the early eighties cholera was stll epidemic in
Freetown but, owing to a continuously improved waste disposal system, is no longer present.
However, in case of a diminished waste and nightsoil disposal service a new outbreak of the
epidemic, especially in those quarters of the town where the poor are living, a futher
occurn  Is possible.
2.    Since 1980, the Federal Republic of Germany has supported the Department of Health
and Socia Services of Sierra Leone In estblishing a cost-efficient solid and liquid waste
managmet system for Preetown and its environs using the most appropriate and effcient
techology. So far the -Preetown Waste Disposal Project- has been fianced through the
Kredtanstalt fur Wiederautbu (FW). While during the inDitil project phase activities
manly focussed on the delivery of techical equipmen and the execution of construction
works, durig the second project phase, from 1987 to the present, technical advisory services
were concentrated on.
3.    Ihe main reasns preventng the Department of Health and Socia Serices (DOESS),
the istiution responsible for waste management, from exeutn Its tasks indepndently a
on Its own responsibility despite several years of financial support and technical ssistamce,
are as follows:
owing to the disaous economic conditions the govement iS at present not
in a position to procue the foreign exchange necessary for the purchase of
equipment and spare parts. Furthermore, as a result of inflation and
prioritized security commitments, there are also difficulties in procuring local
funds from the nional budget.
the Deparmet's direct revenues for waste disposal services from commercial
and public institations are insigniflcant when compared with the qxpppdlt
necessary to provide the service.



-72-
Anngex 3-2
Page 2 of 6
-     the personnel available, although enthusiastic about their responsibilities, are
not sufficiently qualified to understand the complexities of and therefore
effectively manage and control the waste management sector.
4.    The present solid waste collection service is carried out under a cost plus fee contract
with a private company and the term of the conact is five years with the completion date
being February 12, 1995. However, the remuneration of the private waste disposal company
is entirely based on funds from central government and all existing revenue services are
operated by and their respective funds used for, the DOHSS' Environmental Health Division.
It is this division, which not only manages the revenue earning services, but also acts as the
contract monitoring arm of the DOHSS.
S.    The study's objectives are to:
(a)   identfy the most apprptiate tecdnical solution for the Greater Freetown solid
and liquid waste management system and to deteinine and assess the related
investment and operating costs as well as environmental aspects. The basic
structure of the whole waste management system is also to be stdied and
evaluated. For the assessment of the existing or proposed project components
(waste collection, transportation, landfilling, nightsoil-service, street sweeping,
gutter cleaning, operation of public toilets, etc.) it is an essential prerequisite
that they be inegrated soundly into an overall waste management system.
b)   determine the optimal operational, organiational and legislativeladmsiiave
stcture that will meet the reqirements of this system at the least overall
coss to the public and the government.
SCOPE OF WOQR
6.    The study is to be divided into four components:
(a)    Review of existing siuation. This component will analyze the existing solid
and liquid waste management system including land-fill operations.
(b)   Definition and analysis of future options. This component will define and
compare the opions for providing solid waste and liquid waste (nightsoil)
management serices in the Greater Freetown Area with a view to
determining the most appropriate operao, organizational, legislative and
regulatory systm, both economically and socially; special consideration of the
general economic situation of Sierra Leone will be required. The elements of
cost recovery and private sector involvement will be objectively assessed.
(c)    Policy and institutional framework. This component will define the policy,
planning, org ional and regulatory requirements for the adequate
management of the preerred waste and nightsoil management option. It wil
include (i) the definition of the role of the Department of Health which has
overal responsibility for the regulation and operation of the system; and (d)



-73-
Annex 3--2
Page 3 of 6
the definition of the future roles of the Freetown City Council and the private
sector.
(d)   Implementation requirements. This component will formulate
recommendations on the implementaton/lmptovementlconsolidation of the
new and/or existing project components and define the needs for further
tehicl assistance.
7.    ITese four components are described in more detail as follows:
(a)    Review of existing situation
This component will cover, but not necessarily be limited to, the following activities,
Investigations and outputs:
(I)     review of previous studies on waste and nightsoil disposal in
Freetown and definition of the existing project components and
services.
(ii)     collection of existing and projected soclo-economic and demograhic data
on human settlements, Industry, tourism and other development, income
distribution, quantities and composition of solid waste and nightsoil,
particularly for domestic refuse and industrialUcommercial waste of
domestic composition, information concerning service coverage, etc.
siif)    idetication of data gaps and filling them by limited surveys. (description
of the present situation and the expected development in the next ten years
Is required.)
(lv)     description of the deficiencies and shortcomings as a problem analysis,
identication of the key problems and their consequences (for example
ground and surface water contamination, health risks, land use, emissions
and soil contamination) current capacity and service coverage in solid waste
and nightsoil disposal, critical assessment of existing disposal facilities and
methods. Identification of generally needed non-technical solutions, ranked
by priorities and practicability.
(v)      description of related sub-sectors (for example disposal of sewage sludge,
faeces, hospital waste, bazardous and industrial waste).
(vi)     review and assessment of present institutional framework for solid and
liquid waste management in Greater Freetown and identification of possible
impediments to the implementation of any proposed changes to this
framework. This shall include an analysis of manpower and training needs,
functions, responsibilites and level of authority of the different entities
participating in the provision of public disposal services as they actually
exist.



-74-
Amnex 32
Page 4 of 6
(vii)    review and assessment of the existing legislation as it relates to waste and
nightsoil management in Greater Freetown.
(b)    Definition and analysis of future options.
This component will define and analyze the options for the organization of waste and
nightsoil in Greater Freetown, including:
(i)      Continuing -with the principle of private sector contracting whilst
transferring the less technical elements of the services to the City Council
immediately, for example public toilets and street sweeping. Control of the
private contractor to remain with the Departnent of Health.
(ii)     As above, but, control of the contractor to remain with the Department of
Health until February 1995 at which time it would pass to the City
Council.
Mii)     Continuing with the present contract but transferring public toilets to the
City Council immediately. Control Of the contractor to remain with the
Department of Health until February 1991. During the remaining two
years of the contract preparing for the transfer of all services to the City
Council. Not putting the services out to tender.
(v)      discontinuing the present contract arrangement, temporarily transferring
operational responsibilities to the Environmental Health Division and at the
same time exploring the future possibilities of both a single and multi
private company involvement.
Full analysis and comparison of all options will be undertalai.
(c) Policy and Institutional framework
This component will define in detail the action required to implement the chosen
opton, including:
(i)      Definition of the legislation required to implement the selected option.
These actions should include the areas of regulation, administration and
financing.
(ii)     Definition of the appropriate institutional framework for the implementadon
of the selected option including a plan for the changes required within the
existing institutions (e.g. DCH, City Council) and the contractor or any
new entity required.
(Oii)    Outline of the functions and responsibilities of the authorities and ciesign of
the organizational requirements that will enable the entities to develop long-
term planning and effective waste and nightsoil disposal strategies.



-75-
MM 3ex-2
Page 5 of 6
8.    Under this component the study will provide a detailed progam for the
implementation of the chosen option. the study will be required to:
(a)    Produce and implemen plan for the various measures connected with the
Implementation of the accepted option.
(b)   Identify costs and potential sources of financing.
(c)    Propose specific programs to achieve economic performance and cost-effecve
use of all project components (e.g. fleet, landfills, workshop). This shall
include the assessment of training needs for all categories of manxaement and
staff within the system.
(d)    Make recommendations as regards the need for long and short-term technial
sistance to assist GOSL to intioncce, Implement and consolidate te fiture
waste management system.
(e)    Povide Terms of Reference, task descriptions and expertise proffles for the
technical assitace requirements defined under the foregoing paragaphs.
9.    The following reports will be required in order to monitor project progress:
(a)    An Inception Report, one month after commencement.
(b)    An lteim Report, four months after commencement, detailing all studies,
giving the results and analysis of the review of the eisting situation,
explaining fiuure options, and recommending the best opto for consideration
by GOSL.
(c)    A Draft Final Report, seven months after commencement, fully developing the
selected option.
(d)    A Final Report, eight months after commencement, incorporating all
comments recived from GOSL on the DFR.
(e)    Summary Monthly Progress Reports, detaiing progress aint the Work-
Plan, and hig tig  acievements made and difficulties encountered.
CQQt=tG TMq
10.   It Is envisged that the task covered by this TOR, can best be achieved by a nulti-
disciplinay team, which should contain as a minimum the following skills:
-     Project Managerloverall Solid Waste Management Expertise
-     Solid Waste Transportation Expertise



-76-
Annsex .7
Page 6 of 6
-      )Disposa Site/Diposl Methods Expertise
Finanal/Economlc Expertise
-     Lega/lustitutlonal Expertise
-     Enviromnena Experte
11.   Each member of the team should be filly/appropriately qualified for their allotted
role, should bave experience on the desig and operation of solid waste management systems
in less developed countries, prefrably In Sub-Sahara Africa, and should have excellent
communiation s1ills, being fluent in the English language.



-7; -
Anmex 3-3
Page I of 5
EW N INFRRA URTE RWAR.:A;IIATONPRJC
TRA"IC MANAGEMEN-T SUDY- F'OR FEI
TAMS OF REFERENCE
bltroduction
1.    The city's road network measures about 220 kilometers of which about 37 kilometers are
major aterias. These terminate mainly in the centra business district (CBD). Apart from the
conspicuous absence of a bypass, the network appears to be fairly developed to serve the present
and futre needs of the city. However due to inadequate maintenance over a prolonged period,
deterioration has set in and the network suffers from acute distress in both the pavement and
adjoining structures particularly drainage. The absence of a bypass compels east west traffic to
pass through the CBD. This situation and the rather rough nature of the pavement causes
considerable delay in the movement of goods and services, damage to vehicles and equipment,
high vehicle operating costs and loss of life and property due to accidents.
QObWes
2.    The main objectives of the study are to:
(a)    Prepare an inventory of the city's road network including street furniture, traffic
lights, street lights, sidewalks, etc. and to undertake studies to estimate the current
and future traffic volumes for the network.
(b)    Establish a computer-based traffic monitoring plan including a sustainable
procedure for updating forecasts and modifying traffic facilities to suit recorded
traffic levels, and accidents.
(c)    By rigorous capacity analysis, define specific road network improvement and
expansion oth link and intersection) needed to increase the present level of
service.
(d)    Establish a framework for the network of arterial streets and recommend a five-
year traffic management plan to reduce vehicle operating costs, decrease travel
and congestion time, improve safety and efficiency of traffic.
(e)   Identify a program of urgent traffic improvements measures and associated works
on the basis of the established priorities.
(0) Undertake necessary designs and prepare cost estimates of the urgent traffic
measures for funding under this project.



-78-
Annex 3-3J
Page 2 of S
(g)    Establish the necessary policy action plan required for enforcement and education
so as to realize the full benefit of the recommended proposals.
(0)    Train Sierra Leonean counterpart staff through active participation in the study
and through specific trainig sessions in relevant study areas.
(i)    Identify the institutional requirements for effective traffic management, and
establish the funding levels required.
(j)    Establish a parking policy and associated fee structure.
(k)    Make recommendations for siting of major traffic generating facilities with
particular reference to markets.
Soon of Studv
3.    The study shall cover the full area demarcated by the Greater Freetown boundary and
along major traffic corridors entering this area and will include the following Surveys:
(a)    Traffic surveys and counts
(b)    Inventory of transport system
(c)   Inventory of land use and socio-economic data
4.    The study shall incorporate activities earmarked for the CBD and other major roads in the
preliminary interventions initiated by SLRA. The consultant shall develop appropriate traffic
management proposals and also undertake an assessment of the implication of not making changes
to the existing situation.
5.    The consultant shall identify existing traffic, safety, parking, pedestrian circulation, goods
movement and public transport level of service and accessibility problems. The consultant will
review the existing accident reporting system and make the necessary modifications. In
consultations with the Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA), the consultant shall develop suitable
standards for public transport level of service and accessibility to the city center.
6.     Among other things, the consultant shall develop the following traffic management plans:
(a)    road/intersection widening and geometric improvements, including channelization
and markings;
(b)    one-way street plans;
(c)    impfoved pedestrian circulation systems, including exclusive pedestrian zones;
(d)   traffic control device improvements, including synchronization and coordination;
(e)    increased police control and enforcement measures;
(f)    on-street and off-street parking policy and fee structure;
(g)    provision of lay-bys, sidewalks, crosswalks and other facilities for pedestrian
movement;
(h)    public transport priorities, modification to routes, and schedules and promotion of
private operators;



-79-
Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 5
(i)    designated bus routes;
()    CBD access restriction for certain classes of vehicles;
(k)   pavement rehabilitation, storm drainge improvements.
7.    Ihe consultant shall develop an evaluation methodology to assess the proposed traffic
management measure. Ihe evaluation shall be based on:
(a)   level of user benefit
(b)    cost of implementation
(c)    cost-effectiveness
(d)   flexibility to accommodate variations
(e)    ease of maitenace
(f)   institutional requirements
8.    The consultant will determine a 5-year implementtion of traffic management measures
which are practical to implement and are cost-effective.
9.    The consultant shall identify immediate measures to be implemented in a one to two year
tme frame and prepare the necessary drawings in sufficient detl and esdmate to a level of
acuracy in the range of 10-15%. The consultant shall prepare, in sufficient detail, tender
docments which shall be suitable for international or local competitive bidding and include all
necsary documents for the required works, in adequate detail and shall be consistent with World
Bank guidelines and laws of Sierra Leone.
fmfl Monul fn tron
10.   A continuing traffic monitoring program is to be designed as part of the study. The
coslta  shall establish intervals for updating the records established by the study and
reconmend inputs needed by the local staff for efficient monitoring. To be induded in the traffic
monitoring program, is the development and application of a systematic approach to injury
accident reporting and analysis.
Tin
11.   As part of the study, the consultant will be expected to establish systems that will permit
transfer of knowledge to counterpart personnel to enable them to repeat a similar exercise in
future, from within their own resources.
12.    hree fi-ltime counterpart personnel from SLRA and the Freetown City Council will be
assigned to the Study Team. They should be given specific tasks to accomplish and will
participate actively in the study.
13.   The consultant shall perfonn two half day training sessions per month for the local staff
during the course of the study.



-80-
AMte 3.3
Page 4 of 5
Consultant fta(t
14.   The consultant will provide the following key staff for the study.
(a)    Project Mamger
(b)   Traffic Engineer
(c)    Transport Economist
IS. The skills of a land use planner may also be required, for a limJted period. One of the
three consultant's team members should preferably possess sufficient skills to perform the
necessary land use planning ts, otherwise such expertise shall be provided by a qualified
planner.
In addition, training and institional expertise is required which, ideally, should be
provided by one of the team-members or, alternatively, through short  rventions by a training
and an  stitutional expert. Both the Project Manager and the Traffic Engineer will be required to
be resident in Freetown for most of the durtion of the study. The Transort Economist will not
be expected to be on site throughout the study.
16.   InceMtion Re&orn. Idicating the design criteria, outline of preliminary assumptions,
brief description of conditions at the start of the study, findings made, problems encountered or
expected to arise, a schedule of key activities. Report shall be kept as brief as possible and shall
be limited to highlighting key Issues and tasks and any significant modification to the original
17.   interim Re    No.1.  To be submitted five (5) months after cmen ent In ten (10)
copies and would cover the following:
inventory of the urban transport system
general traffic analysis of the study area
inventory of land use
outline of the S-year traffic management plan
preselection of priority actions to be implemented immediately after the
study
maps, charts, diagrams and organized swdy data in the computer
_ assessmeof existing conditions and recommended
measures
18.     1    _dM R 1Et No.2.  To be submitted 8 months afte commenceme  in 10 copies and
listing major activities completed in preceding months, outlining activities for the ensuing period,
overview of institutional arngements, evaluation of the training progam and reporting on
important events and conclusions reached at this stage. It must also include zoning plans, layout
plans preliminary engineering draft specifications and bills of quantities for the emergency
measures.
19.   DnR Fin        .  To be submitted II months after commencement in 15 copies
giving a summary of all work performed and preseting all findings, conclusions and



-81-
Page 5 of 5
recommendations in accordance with the objectives defined for the study. Printed copies of
analyzed computer based data collected for the study shall accompany report with references
where necasay. Report shall also include trWaining handbook, evaluation of the trining program,
traffic monitoring program, fial engineering drawings and associated documents for the
emargency measures.
20.       jJjj Re.  To be submitted one month after receipt of comments from the dient c:
13 months aftr commencement of the study, incorporaing necesary modifications to the draft
final report and coverng a aspect of the stdy.



-82-
Page I of S
-REErOWN INRSlRUMTRl SIEQEMLIUA=EC
CITY ENGINS DEPAR14T OF FCC
1.    Freetown City Council has statutory responsibility for general service delivery in the city
among which are maintenmce of local roads, refuse collection and disposal, streedighting, traffic
signals, saniation and environmental health, public parks and gardens, market, fire protection
and educadonal facilities. The City Enginees Department provides a backbone for delivery of
these services. However, due to council's inability to generate adequate revenue and poor service
conditions, most qualified and experienced personnel have left the Depament. Under the Bank
supported Road Rehabilitation and Maintenanc Project, a Chief Municipal Engineer is to be
engaged to asist with the re-organztio of the Engineer's Deparment. The curret project will
fther consolidat this effort through the recument of additional technical staff, and provision
of plant and equ.pmew for routine road manmace. Collectively, the efforts of these techical
assistance personnel will be geared towards a first phase program of establishing maitenance
capacity within the City Engineer's Department and In particular mainta the works to be
constructed under the project. Outline of a core maintenance unit and complementary plant and
equipment have been proposed for the re-organization exercise.
O)bjective
2.   ITe main objectives of the project are as follows:
(1)   to put in place arrangements for maitmnce of facilities to be provided under the
project.
(ii)  to establish the basis for maintenuane capacity within the City Engineer's
Deparment as part of a long term program to improve the service delivery
capability of the Council.
(i)   to implement a traing progam aimed at establishing systems and procedures for
road maintenance.
(iv)  to provide the unit with basic road mantenan  plant and equipment.
Structure of Core Unit
3.    Ihe overall structure of the CE's Department will be determined during an organization
and man ement study proposed for F.C.C. Ihe core unit will cater initially for routine and



-83-
Page 2 of 5
peiodic maiece of roads and public bufldings. Tho unit will eventually be expanded over
the yeas to cater for the full rate of engineerg senrice delivery requirements of the Council.
4.    As indicated in the organization chart at the end of this Annex, emphasis wil be on road
maintenmce. However, to prevent the attention of the road maintenance units being diverted to
other activties unconnected with roads, a building mantenace unit will be put in place. A
mechanical unit will also be available to provide limited servces in plant and equipment
mantence.
1I0ne had Mantme
S.    A routine road mantenance program will be put in place by the Municipal Engineer for
eah of the three divisions to be located in the Eastern, Central and Western parts of the City.
The Council wfll be expected to acquire sites in the respective areas for accommodating the units.
Activities to be undertaken include:
- Pothole paching
- Curb repairs
- Seconal road repais
- Siewalk repair
- Roadine marking
-Roadslgn Installation and rpairs
- Road name installation
- Drain clening and repairs
- Culvert cleaning and repaits
- Trench reinstaement
6.    To perform these ftions effectively, the following pieces of vehicle and equipment
have bee proposed. However, the Municipal Engineer may wish to modify these items to suit
his program.
E4q2iaped  ondf                             Qmntl
Small Bitumen Boiter/Sprayers                 3
Pedestrian Roller                             3
Plate Compactors                              3
Tractor Mounted Road Sweeper                  3
Air Compressors with attachment               3
Pickup trucks                                 6
Dumper                                        3
Concret Mixer                                 3
Handtools and working gear
Speificatins of these sall be established with the assistance of SLRA.
d    RoadMannance
7.    As part of the RRMP, the Slerra Leone Roads Authority will train contractors for periodic
maintenan  of roads. It will therefore be prudent at this stage to establish a periodic



-84-
Page 3 of S
maintennce section, that s equipped with qualified ngineers and technlcians capable of
preparing simple line diagrams. drgs and tender documents and to utilize the local
competitive bidding procedures for award of periodic maint ce contracts. Supervision of such
contracts will be performed by the unit. Consideable training wiUl be required in this area and
the Municipal Engineer will devote time to this in an ongoing basis. The project has made
provision for traiing about four Engineers and Technicians at the Eastern and Southern African
Management Iostitute in Amsha - Tanzania.
Building Maintemee
8.    In a City Council environment, the absence of a unit for mantenance of buildings and
other stuctures always lead to the disruption of road mantenan  progam, on account of
diversion of plant, equipment and peone for actvities unconnected with roads. To avoid such
situation, a building maienance unit would be established with the necessary staff compliment.
Detais of this will depend on the nature of complaints from Councilors and is left for the
Municipal Engineer to study these needs and put in place an appropriate structure and
arrangements.
ftdmdWt Mdateiamnee and Stores
9.    A centralized road equipment mannance and stores fcility is to be established to
povide limited sefvices. Since ficilities for undertaking major repairs exist in the SLRA and the
MOH's solid wast  management workshop, this division shod as much as posible concentrate
only on routine jobs such as:
- changing oil/filter
- replacement of bulbs
- ninor mechanical repairs
- onitoring equipment and vehicles to ensure regular servicing
- training operators on proper usage
- vulcanizing works
- battery chaing and monitoring
10.   Agreement should be reached with the above metioned workshops to undertake major
works on harge basis. In consultation wih SLRA, job descrtion for a mechanical
superintendent and a qualified storekeeper will be prepared to enable the City Council engage
suitable candidates.
EF_
11.   SLRA will apportion part of road fimd proceeds for funding of [100%1 periodic
maintenane depending on agreed annual mainenance operations and [50%1 of routine
mamnam   materials requirements. Tle council will provide funds for the foliowing:
- staff salaries
- fuel  d maimta    cost for plant and eqipme
- IS0%) toutine maienance materials
- cost of providing offices/depots
- office mainenance



-85-
Page 4 of S
- miscellaneous expense
lhe IDA credit will provide funds for the following:
- municipal engineer
- foreign cost of vehicle, plant and equipment
- spare parts
- amount for year I routine maintenance materials requirements
- office fiumiture and equipment
GOSL will provide:
- finding to cover duties and taxes.



-86-                          Annex 3-4
-PageS of 5
SIERRA LEONE
FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURE REHABIUTA1ION PROJECT
Fretown City Counell e Maintenanco Unit
Organktlon Chatt
MaU
I  CP         I
l7 l
Ff ~~~~~~I .It En. __
- -.
ev_w sua"o                             Ino
*h Poa,            * W_p
*MScMns            * f_ 
* Mren         *     s A
*AW"          .~~*Aft
Mal_w            Waho
*W-m
Ku? Unit  Genital Unit  Wu? Unit     upedtuvw
I  } g               I            *~~~~~~~fe.
Egu                afidU IUn    11M un



-87-
Amze 3-S
Page 1 of 4
FF"EED    INRAMU-M   RIHA1L1*ATION PROJE
DRAFT TRMUM OF CEfgE F-0 N2CF- ENG-ER
RdMm
1.    The Freetown Infastructure RIeWlitaUon ProJet (FR), prepared at the request of the
Govearment of Siera Leone, with the assistanc of the  ternatiotal Development Aociation
(IDA), has the folowing main objectives:
(a)    To address the major and most urgent infastructural deficiencies of the City by a
program of repair, rehabilitation and upgrading of slum areas, markets and the
urban road and water supply systems. Tackling first the highest priority and most
urgent deficiencies, to improve the living environment and socioeconomic
oditions of the urban poor, which wil not preclude options for re-development
in futur to be defined by a medium to long-term planning process.
(b)   To provid technical assistace, trainig and eential materials and eqipme  in
key departments f Setoral Agencies, to begin the proes of  bstina
development of these agencies and to prepare them primarily for the task of
operating and maintaining the improved facilities to be provided under Part (a) of
this stry.
(c)    To put in place a strategic pla'ing framework to deemine the medium and
longer-term growth charactistics of the City, to enable the preparation of
sensitive and appropriately dinensioned development programs for ftr years.
2.    The achievement of the above objectives will be realized by th-, implementation of an
integted muti-setr utban development project which will includr. the construction of new
facflities and the rehabilitation of older ones; adviory services and institutonal development
within sectoral agencies to improve their future perfomance, particularly in the areas of operation
and maintemance and; studies to identify future urban development needs, both within and outside
Freetown. These three basic componens are closely linked, and must be carefilly coordinaed to
produce the optimum result for the anticipated expenditure.
3.    Tbis project therefore represents a diverse set of inter-dependent initiatives which will
requie the development of a higher order of management skill than presently exist withn the
public sector organiations responsible for implementig the Project
4.    Secdon L.(b) of this docmnt ouines one of the most Importa aspects of an integrted
urba deveopment project, of which FIRP is an example, tat Is the need to build longterm,
sustable  apacity for the opeaton and manteac (O&M) of the physical faciities to be
provided by the project. Freetown City Council has the mandate to deliver this O&M service,
but because of past difficulties, has been unable to operato at an adequate level. Due to this



-88-
Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 4
defawlt O&M has passed to a number of other agencies; Minstry of Health has taken
responsibility for Road Malntean    d Cleansing. GOSL now wishes to redress his situaton
and to prepare FCC to undera    a more sificnt sbae of the burden of O&M of facilities
within City Imis. t is toward the achevem  of tis broad policy objective which the
proposed FCC Maintenance Unit will be dircted.
Objecltves
5.    The main objecve of these TOR is to define expert advisory servies to FCC, to assist
them to establish their Mantenance Unit to plan for and establish their Maintenance Unit to pla
for and establish an O&M capacity within the City Engineer's Department, which wiUl be
specifically targeted (initally) at peforming the folowing type of Routine Maintenance:
(a)    Street cleansing, road and footpath sweeping and removal and disposa of
sweepings.
(b)    Drain cleaning, gully emptying and cleaning, clearing of chamnels pipes aud
culverts.
(c)    Verge timming and maintenoce of roadside trees and shrubs.
(d)    Cleaning of street frniu, direction signs and traffic signals.
(e)    Cleansing and mantence of public toilets.
sonD d mr
6.    The present status of maintenance capacity in FCC is that it is very limited. Therefre
the Municipal Engineer to be hired under these Terms of Reference will be required to bufld such
capacity from almost nothing. Therefore the scope of work to be covered by the Municipal
Engineer will be comprehensive, and will include, but not necessarily be limited to:
(a)    Prepare a detaied Work Progrm for the duration of the Technical Assistance.
O)   Prepr an inventory of facilities to be mantained.
(c)    Prepare a schedule of staff nd operatives required to carry out routine
maintenance.
(d)   Prepare job desctptions for maintenance staff.
(e)    Prepare schedules of tools and equipment required to perform routine mainenance
tasks.
(f)    Recruit staff.
(g)   Procre mateials and equdpmeat
(h)    Prepare mannance task schedules and work progrm.



-89-
Anngg 3-5
Page 3 of 4
(I)    Popose, agree and implmt a maitenancO monitoring system.
j)    Trhin staff, In partica the countepat Municipal Engineer, who will take over
the Maintenance Unit on comledon of the Tcnical Aistmce.
(k)   Prepare detaied proposals, induding Work Prgram, shedules of required staff
and materials and equipment, for the future taking over of the periodic
maintenance fimction.
ComdtnSklls Requird
7.    The cand_ate for the post of Municlpal Engineer should de  a high level of
expedence in the management of routine nard periodic maintenane within a local government
organization in a deoping country. Specically he sould have the folowing qualfications:
(a)    A B.Sc. Degree in Municipal Engiing andlor Public Health Engineering.
(1)   A minimum of 15 years of post qualification working experience of which the
majority shoudd be in the management of municipal maintenance operations.
(c)    Considerable overseas experience, on Technical Assistance assignments in Tbird
World cuntrie, prferably including experience of working In sub-Saharan
Africa.
(d)   Should have experience in the formulation and operation of staff training
progms.
(e)   Should be familiar with guidelines for the procurem    of goods and services as
specified for World Bank and other donor funded projecs.
(f)    Should be computer literae.
(g)   Should be fluent in the English l ge and able to communicate ideas easily.
8.    The Municipal Egineer wi be based widin Fretown City Council, however, he wiUl
report directly to the Project Manager, and the Director General of SLRA. He will be required
to liaise closely with the Chief Municipal Engineer, provided under RRMP.
9.    In order to monitor the proge  of the establishment of the Maintenance Unit the
following repor will be required:
(a)   Work Program/lmception Report, one month aer com encent of the Technical
Assisace.



-90-
Anne 3-5
Page 4 of 4
Ob)    Staffing and Equipment Plan, two moaft   comme    en of the Technical
AssiStance.
(c)    Regular monthly progre  reors, coveg the establishment of the Unit, and
ma_itenac work completed.
(d)    A proposal for the extension of the Unit's responsIbilies into periodic
maintenance, nine months after the commencement of the assignmenL
(e)    A Final Report at the completion of the assignment, detailing achievements,
failures and recommas for future tecnical support.



-91-                                      Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 5
a          *          a          oebu 
Pzojeat CsPOausats        a    Mty.  a   Bait  a    1..C   trIn  .C aotal Cost
a          a          *            *           a
t.~~~~~~~~~                                                      $           * 
a.  81URM VtD=dinc                                       
2  Lend AaaaLsition                   0      4.30a     Ba   a      0.043*      .            0.043
2. liss ROMESUM                       4      4.30 a    as           0.141 a     0.043 s     o.184
3. ,aTox    Looev Resd                I          I            
Urooktfilde                            2.63 *    ha   *       0.373 a     0.473 a     0.S46
cc"PD Market                    a      3.83 a    Ia    t      0.305 a     0.490 8     0.875
Ginger Hall                     a      2.97 a    km   a      0.394 a      0.501 a     0.095
zvoo 3ay/KXoo TOMn              a      1.83 a    la    t     0.242 a      0.307 a     0.549
Sus"an   ay                     I      0.6" a    kw   a      4.087 a      0.111 a     0.198
Maballa                                0.41 a    la    a      0.0-0 s     0.074 a     0.132
4.      aa g                                     a           a           a           a
Erooktl lds                     I          a                       t           t
Gozr. Uro.                      a      0.63 s    ha   a       0.008 a     0.010 a     0.01
Sub DraLse                      a      0.97 a    km   t       0.012 a     0.016 8     0.028
Misc. Vast. water cont.         a          a   L.9   *        0.030 a     0.041 s     0.071
Ginger Rall                     aI                                              a
Stroam Channel                  a      0.4S s    km   a       0.005 *     0.008:      0.013
Sub Drains                      a      0.27 a    ka   a       O.0C3 *     0.005 I     0.000
Misc. "te water Cant.           I     -    s    L.8   a       0.025 a     0.018 a     0.043
Congo Markt                     a          t           t           a           t
gaXg Brook                      a      0.36 a    km   a       0.004 a     0.004 *     0.010
Draie Strtures                         -        L.8   t       0.030 *     0.027 t     0.0S7
Msc.  at Water Cmt.             a         -      L.8          0.036 a     0.Oso a     0.086
Kroo say/Z l Tam                           a           a           a *
alUgator MR                     a      0.47 a    hI    a      0.007 a     0.006 a     0.013
Vat strea                       a      0.20 a    ka   a       0.004 a     0.002 a     0.006
Dtaigo  Chanls                  a          t    L.S   t       0.042 a     0.072 t     0.114
Susaa say                      aI                     a           a           I
Drainage Chamlaas                                      4 . a  0.017 a     0.012 s     0.029
Drainage St  tures                              L.8   a       0.011 a     0.018 a     0.029
misc. Wate Natr  Cout.          a          s    L.8   t       0.031 *     0.018 a     0.049
S. Iata Sumlt                         9          I          4            S           I
1a  Stadptpa                    a    46.00a S         a      0.042 a     0.055 a     0.097
Raair  Exist. standpipas        t     33.00 a    M    a      0.015 a      0.020 a     0.03S
4. Im4tam                             a          S           a           a           a
Publi Toilets                         11.00 a    U    a       0.091 s     0.066 a     0.157
ablution  aclitis                      6.00 S    Rh   a       0.100a      0.072 a     0.172
7. Olgid Was"                         a          a           a           a           I
Mftine Container                a    50.00 a      h   a       0.000 a     0.000 a     0.000
ito Proparation,                a      0.52 a    Ba   a       0.151 a     0.109 a     0.260
SupervQisios                    t          a           a      0.265 *          a      0.265
a          a          a            a           a      0.000
sub-total Sli Upradng              a          a                 2.652 a      2.430 a     5.282
1/ Errors due to rounding



-92-                                        Annex 3-<
Page 2 of 5
*         a          a          e    aU    la
Projet     te            I   Qty I *    nit  a    L.C           O T.C   a Wotal Coat
B.   kt   Va                                               a           a           a 
oll*en    a          a *    0.009*           a      0.009
Floor                          a          a          a     0.120 a     0.035s      0.164
Wls                                                        0.026.      0.035 s     0.061
coal"                          *                           0.041 a     0.006 a     0.047
soot                          0aa                            .1$4*     0.029 a     0.167
Docrs a"   is  o                                           0.044       0.017 a     0.063
ut Van                         a          a          a           a     0.0         0.0S
paved Aras                                                 0.091       0:.034 a    0.125
UuutMob Mt" Draings            a          a                 .12 t      0.0*.133a   0.1 *55
Fout sata g raa                a                     a     0.020,      0.009.     0.037
ee Wl                          a          a          a     0.020 a     0.023       0.043
Zama                           a          a                0.329 s     0.330*      0.659
WmLid                          a          a          a     0.199a      0.140*      0.339
VonXedatn                      a          a          *     0.003 a     0.001 a     0.004
Tollate                        a          a         a      0.00? I     0006I       0.015
u.taoellaneous          a          a          a      0.303 a     0.105 a     0.400
-- avYisian                    a         .          *      0.116            a      0.116
Sub-total MIktt Ugrading         a          a          a      1.627       0.443*      2.470
c.  asolld was t                     '                                 a 'a'
colleoon Vehil                 a     2.00 a   Io.  a       0.000a      0.196       0.198
0gatelns                      a    50.00 8    so.  a      0.000 a     0.125 a     0.125
Vehicle. and Eq4ipmnt          a     2.00 a    go.  a      0.000 t     0.050 a     0.050
Sub-total Sld Want gMt.          a          a          a      0.000       0.3J73      0.3?3
BUR-ToMa. wRoo uMOuasDIN         a          a          a      4.279 s     3.644 a     8.125
IX.  p     PAS a MAI                  * t                   a t
A. Nalor *nd minor Arteriaa
914 Railway "na                a     3.00 a    km   s      0.546 a     0.720 a     1.266
%Am  razman Ro                       0.a9d    km   a       0.167 a     0.214*      0.381
Cauphell atret                       0.61 a    bk    a     0.153 a     0.194 a     0.347
Xisly Rod                      a     1.50     km   a       0.283 *     0.360 *     0.643
Vroo oTMPAi                    a     0.65 *    km   a      0.123 s     0.156 a     0.279
egaw Stret                     a     0.28 a    km   a      0.053 s     0.067 a     0.120
ub-TeOal                         a          a          *      1.345 a     1.711*      3.056
S.  Distr       ad         d          a         aa
sailey Stret                   a     0.24 a    km          0.044 a     0.056 a     0.102
Blilat Stret                   a     0.25 s    km   a      0.047 a     0.060 *     0.10?
Sath Street                          0.73 a    km   a      0.172 a     0.219 a     0.391
adeenyah Street                a     0.50 a    km   a      0.116 8     0.150 a     0.246
Willoghby Lane                 a     0.95 .    km   a      0.209 S     0.266 #     0.47S
BE4  Stre.t                    a     1.00 a    kh          0.236 *     0.300        O.S36
Jbnyan street                        0.12 a    km   a      0.028 a     0.036 s     0.064
Dillt Street                   a     0.16 8    km   a      0.030 a     0.03S a     0.068
MaoDonald Street               a     0.56      k bm        0.106 a     0.134 t     0.240
Forgusmn Street                a     0.54 a    km   a      0.101 a     0.130 a     0.231
Pike Street                    a     0.21 a    km   a      0.040 a     0.050 a     0.090
mth. Street                          0.25 S    km   a      0.055 a     0.070 S     0.125
Potts SAMOA Street             a     0.41 a    km   a      0.077 S     0.098 a     0.175
U"er Boton Stret               a     0.45 a    km   a      0.099 S     0.126 s     0.225
Uor Savae Street               a     0.3? a    1k          0.01 a     0.104 *     0.165
Loy Le                               0.06 a    km   a      0.013 a     0.017       0.030
Say Street                     a     0.26 a    km   a      0.053 a     0.67 a      0.120
Patto Street                   S     0.35 s    km   a      0.066 a     0.064 a     0.150
Ibntague Street                a     0.16 S    km   *      0.040 a     0.050 s     0.090
Winy Yoke Stre                 a     0.16 *    kcm   a     0.040 a     0.050 *     0.090
Lightfoot Boston Street        a     0.34 a    km   a      0.075 s     0.095 S     0.170
Chapel Steet                   a     0.17 S    km   a      0.037 a     0.048 S     0.085
uheur street                   a     0.09 a    km   a      0.020 a     0.025 a     0.045
Nala  ow"satreet               a     0.30 a    km   a      0.066 a     0.064 S     0.150
Off  ean Stret                 a     0.19 a    km   a      0.042 a     0.053 a     0.09S
Supeiso                        a          a                0.383            a      0.363
Sub-total  istrit Iot             a         a                 2.277       2.413 a     4.690
S I-OL ROD                        a         a                 3.622*      4.124a      7.746



-93-                                       Annex 3-6
Page 3 of 5
umwinzmm~~~mt n 9$Kui
project Cuam* n.         s Oty   a   Weat  I    &.C              P.C      f otul cost
a
III.~~~~                                ,    .               ese a    Z
A. Lehlaetion                         a          ,          a           *            S
1. Leak   eatoa Ua t ,                                                 3 
3094146 touat w                       1.00 I    W.  s       0.004.      0.009 *     0.031
V.P.S.                         *      1.00 *     e. I       0.002       0.003 :     0.005
t loggers                                                               0   *  0.024   0.037 :  0.041
le units                       a          :                 0.012.|    0.019:       0.031
nw motor                              2.00 :    Io    a     0.004 :     0.006        Ole
abl      tor                          2  .00   Io.  .       0.0058      0.00S      0.013
Ouraos amw     t               *      2.00       .   a      0.004 .     0.006*      0.010
1    o Loakacio Corltion                  *                 0.0* o.     0.037       0.061
Uiaoellanouls                  :          a          *      0.019.      0.030*      0.049
sub-total                                                      0 :  *  0.061:  0.125:  0.206
2.  :lng_   11                                             8 tw 
t5 _ dls.                      *      1.00     go.  :       0.004:      0.0018      0.oe5
200   dis.             t             11.C0     go.  *       0.003 s     0.007       0..A9
150   di.                            35:.00:  * :.  ,       0.007:      0.016:      0.025
100   dia.             *             30.00     so.   a      0.OOS  0     .012 *     0.017
71   dia.                      *    20.0       We.  s       0.002 :     0.005 *     0.00?
5o0 = dia.                     *    30.00      go.  t       0.002 s     0.006 a     0.008
Spares for ment Vai Vub.              3.00:    l.  :        0.002 *     0.0052.    0.004
Spares tfor uett £ Chlrism     :      3.00 s    no.  :      0.002 :     0.006 :     0.008
Sub-total                         *          *          *      0.027       0.059       0.056
;.  _ _ h   _               *    ~    ~ ~       ~      ~ *  *  *          3
3. Leakaus em~its Naterials                                              
D2 50 Seel Coupln             :    1S.00: I    n.  *       0.002 :     0.003 s     0.001
3 450 Steel Co9up              *      6.00 *    so.  s      0.001 .     0.001 a     0.002
3 400 St_l CouplX              :      4.00 *    lb.  s      0.001 I     0.001 I     0.002
3 300 = Coupling               *      4.00 *    go.  *      0.000:      0.000 I     0.001
El 200 DI Couplig              *      4.00    lb.  s        0.000 *     0.000.      0.000
is S0I Coupling D                    20.00 t    No.  s      0.001 :     0.001 t     0.002
3 100 D1 Cowplin                     40.00 s    lb.  t      0.001 t     0.002 .     0.002
60 o coupling                       40.00 s    go.  t      0.001 s     0.001 s     0.002
0  150 1VW  Coupling           *    30.00 *    go.  I       0.001 *     0.002 s     0.003
mV l1o MC Coupling             s   160.00:    It.  a        0.004t      0.006 *     0.010
3 60 IWVC Couplng                    100.00   no.  a       0.002 s     0.003 *     0.005
Dl 100  ms Couling             :   300.00      W e.  I      0.007       0.012 :     0.019
s anOOBcopling                 8   240.00      W no.  S     0.004 *     0.00 s      0.011
110 ox-AC Steppd coup.        .    30.00. a   g.  I        0.001 s     0.002s      0.003
W 100 DX-AC Stppd coup.        I    50.00 s    No.  *       0.002 s     0.003 *     0.005
Dl 60 OX-AC stee coup.         :    60.00:    Weo.  *       0.002 a     0.003 s     0.005
03 1S0 1-C stepped Coup.       t    10.00      W lb.  I     0.006 t     0.011 :     0.017
33 150 DW-CZ Sted Cowp.        I    50.00 t    go.  *       0.002 *     0.004 :     0.005
13m   1 I    lS pair Welt      *  1000.00:    We.  s        0.003:      0.005:      0.000
13 - x 200 m Meir Welt         I  1000.00 I    go.  *       0.004 :     0.007 :     0.011
EN 300 Got. Valves             I      5.00 I    no.  s      0.002 s     0.004t      0.00?
Dl 200 Gate V.1w..             *    10.008    We.   :       0.003 s     0.005:      0.005
D 150 Gae Valves               :    50.00s    go.  I        0.007:      0.013 s     0.019
35 100 aGu Valves              I    50.00:    We.  :        0.005 *     0.009:      0.013
s 60 ot.,V alve                s    30.00 a    no.   *      0.002 :     0.004 v     0.007
Air Valves                     .    40.00 *    no.  *       0.004 :     0.006 *     0.012
0 00 * W 100 ri. ydrants       *          *          a      0.005 S     0.009 :     0.014
3W 300 Del Valve               *      1.00     W b.  :      0.001 :     0.001 t     0.002
n 150 mal Valve               s      2.00     W eo.  I     0.001 s     0.002 :     0.002
0a 100 1al Valve               *      5.00:          *      0.001 :     0.001:      0.002
01an DaII Valve                       5.00:    W So.  :     0.001 S     0.001S      0.002
ON 400-80 jointi  Sgets                                     0.003       0.005 S     0.008
Gasket metoiel                 S                            0.000 S     0.001 I     0.001
ladleaking                     S                            0.002 :     0.004 a     0.006
Mtasn  Paint eta.              .                     S      0.002 S     0.004 t     0.006
xicaela    Fittinp             S          *          a      0.005 I     0.009 :     0.014
RpAr Clamp                     *          *                 0.006 :     0.010*      0.016
servix pipes                   S          :          *      0.003a      0.005 S     0.006
Sub-total                         *          *          *      0.094       0.170 :     0.264
Z a                   *           *      0
SWB-AL LA V   tICS                a          ,          *      0.202:      0 .353:s    0.555



-94-                                      Annex 3-6
Page 4 of 5
9          . t
a          .          ,        Coats Lra D58 Mile
roeet _an et.          a   Oty.  a   tWait  a    L.C   a    1.C    * Moe  eoa
Vin Coab Pikup.                a      6.00 a    No.  a      0.0a2*      0.150 a     0.232
1l Stu                         a      1.00:    no.  a       0.016 a     0.029 a     0.045
Platbtd                               1.00.    go.  ,       0.049 t     0.090 a     0.139
water Tanker                          1.00 a   No.  s       0.043 a     0.075 *     0.121
Spew                           a          a          a      0.00  a    0.014 *     0.022
Compressow G acc.esorie.       a      3.00 t    no.  t      0.041 :     0.075 a     0.116
Sludgo rasps                   a      3.00     M Ko.  a     0.002 s     0.003 s     0.005
Mobile tM.l  elbding Generator *      1.00 *    NO. *       0.003 s     0.006 a     0.009
ro.vater/lader                I      1.00 t    Mo.  a      0.034 t     0.062 a     0.096
4sminlag & aeint. equipt.      a          t          I      0.000 a          a      0.000
Ppe Catte 4 Ohmering           a      1.00 I    no.  t      0.009 a     0.017 a     0.026
ip. Pullo                      a      3.00 a    go.  a      0.001 a     0.002 a     0.002
SlbodoUte                      *      1.00 a   go.  a       0.002 a     0.004 a     0.006
steel TapS                     t      2.00 a    No.  a      0.000:      0.000 a     0.000
Undszprwsur. Sapp              a      3.00:    go.  a       0.005 s     0.009s      0.013
Tlle  tok                      a      1.00 a   go.  a       0.001 t     0.001t      0.002
swxe-legged btrtxo             a      1.00 a   go.  a       0.000 a     '.000 a     0.000
po1md as"  ril                        2.00s    go.  a       0.000 *     0.001 a     0.001
Tp. and DI"                    *      2.00:    Mo.  a       0.000 s     0.001 s     0.001
Tguo wrench                    a      1.00 a    go.  I      0.000 a     0.000:      0.000
Mbohanial./auto Tools          a      1.00 a    me.  I      0.001 a     0.002 a     0.002
Lbock takle                    a      1.00 s    o.  a       0.000 *     0.000 :     0.000
Sub-totw  V la and t4 at    a                *          a      0.297       0.543a      0.-40
C. c                                             a    Moia.  a          a n
30 Watts Pepeater Sta.         a      1.00:    go.  a       0.012 a     0.011 a     0.023
45 Watts aae  M.               a      3.00 s    go.  a      0.006 a     0.005 a     0.011
45 Watts Mobl. stag.           a      2.00 t    Mo.  a      0.002 a     0.002 t     0.004
Portable Stas.                 a    13.00 s    Mo.  a       0.019 a     0.018 a     0.038
Sola Seioup                    s      1.00 a   no.  a       0.005 a     0.005 a     0.010
Provisioaal am. apete $t.   a         1.00 a    Mo.  a      0.017 a     0.014 t     0.032
Sub-totatl Coeloatioi             a          a          a       0.061:     0.057 a     0.113
D. & Sulv nsk                       s 
iOm di&.                       a  7500.00 a    U    t       0.007 a     0.015 t     0.022
SOun di&.                      a  9000.00 a    M    a       0.039 t     0.090 a     0.129
loomm di.                      a  4500.00 a    Mt   a       0.025 a     0.058 t     0.083
Aoesorie                       a          a          a      0.020 a     0.045 a     0.065
CostrU  otlt                   a          a          a      0.406 a     0.120 a     0.524
Sub-total                         s          s                 0.497 a     0.328 a     0.82S
U. ffstarf= and  ceatis               S          a                        
ote"s                          a    15.70      M go.  a     0.170  *   0.377 a      0.556
Mter Sp"e                      a  5000.00 a   Mo.  S        0.031 :     0.065 a     0.096
rMaria for   ter.Sais. coe.   a  10000.00 a    no.  a       0.029 a     0.060 S     0.089
standplp. Material             S   700.00 a    Mo.  S       0.033 a     0.070 a     0.103
Ferrule tor N  Coaneotie.s     a   500.00a   lMb.  a        0.024 s     0.050 a     0.074
Stop Taps for Mw COUNI_tiLMS    S  5000.00 a    Mo.  a      0.055 a     0.115 a     0.170
Saddl" for M  Coneatious           500.00 a    Mo.  S       0.036 a     0.075 a     0.111
comoeotion Pipes fr NwM  os.   S  50000.00 a    Mo.  a      0.046 a     0.100 a     0.146
moter Tsting 3t.                      1.00     M so.  a     0.011 S     0.023 a     0.034
conatruotion Cost              a               Mo.  S       1.796:     0.405 a      2.201
sub-otal                          a          a          a      2.241 a     1.340 a     3.561
F. Of£i          t                                          a           a           a s   s
ftarig Brdsa     2.00 a    Mo.  a                           0.001 I     0.001 S     0.002
Plan Cabinet                   a      1.00 a    Mo.  S      0.001 a     0.001 a     0.002
Ptinting  G.                   a         -      -    a      0.002 a     0.003 s     0.005
iwst Trir                      a         -a     -    a      0.001 S     0.001 S     0.001
Dyalin Paper                   a         - a    -    a      0.000 S     0.000 S     0.001
Tracin  P11am. Pea. eta.       a         -      -    I      0.000:      0.001 a     0.001
Photo Copier                   a      1.00 a    go.   a     0.004 a     0.004 a     0.006
Tax Mohin                      *      1.00 a   go.  a       0.001 a     0.002 a     0.003
Sub-tet.al  a   a     a     0.011 a     0.01
Sub-total                                                      0.011       0.012 t     0.023



-95-                                      Annex 3-6
Page 5 of 5
*          *          *    *  costs AVen
Projoot Coqnpouwt        a    t.a                   T..C   I      .         otlcs
tSOj~ ~~~~                               a           a           a.$ bt ;-     . 
twb.~~~~ * *, t,  J nm
G.Teh. lt. 6 training                 a          a    ,           ,                 a
1Dm                            a    12.00 *                 0.039 a     0.132 ;     0.171
gu itandet                     a      2.00*          *      0.035       0.120.      0.155
project enepr                  I      2.00 a         *      0.009a      0.030 t     0.039
VdataI.                               3.00           a      O.Il5'a     0.0501u    0.065
p 9e                           *      6.00 a         a      0.006 a     0.021 a     0.027
frauing                                 - '                0.006: *     .Ol9a-     0.025
Running cost for vehicles      I        M I          a      0.004 a     0.012 a     0.016
Accommodation                  a        M I          t      0.018*      0.060 *     0.078
Sub-total och. Aunt.              I          a                 0.130 a     0.444 a     0.574
4.    0      A                                 -a     -    a      0.087       0.100       0.187
su in                             a          a          a      0.266            a      0.266
:W-:um. wan SL                               a                 3.791 a     3.177 a     6.968
!;f.      D                                       a          a           a           a  
A.   CC.Sumort                        a          *          a                       a
5ainte_ Wao1ltes                         -      -    a      0.440;      0.409 ;     0.849
city council PLPuDmUt          a          a          a      0.126 a     0.200 a     0.326
rin                            a          a          a      0.020 :     0.050 a     0.070
-Lnno4.l a gin                                                   t      0.540 t     0.540
Othe                                                                    0.5408      0.540
Sub-total F.C.C. Support                                       0.586 a     1.739 a     2.325
D.  SIM svx                            *          t           *      
3.  £M..m                             a          a          a           a 
Pojet Coodnator                a          a          a                  0.540 a     0.540
Offics paoil4ti  Suli          a          a          a      0.024 a     0.050 a     0.074
vehicles a   rs                a          a                 0.070 a     0.120 t     0.190
Sub-total SIRR Support            *          a          a      0.094 a     0.710 t     0.804
SW-1OTAL 1W!. SUPP                           S                 0.680 a     2.449 a     3.129
C.     ,                                         a          a           a           a stn
S.lf.M. Stu                          15.00t    Jo    a           a      0.225      0.225
eetoum  M. Plan.               a    67.00 a    864   a           a      1.000 a     1.000
traffic Mgt. Stu4y             a    40.00 t    M5   a            a      0.600 a     0.400
ICC 06 sttudy                  a    13.00t a    MI    a          a      0.200 a     0.200
Vuturo Project Pi".            t    53.00 i    an   a                   0.800 a     0.600
Sub-total lech. Assist.           a                            0.000 a     2.825 a     2.825
Ml Refund                                    a          a           a      1.500 s     1.500
Total am Cost                     a          a          a    12.676:      17.661 $    28.839
vaysical cstiag                   a          a                 .270 a      1.630 a     2.900
Poe COatingeo                     a          a          a      1.250t      1.510 a     2.760
TOML PCWS COST                    a          a          a    15.200 a    20.800 a    36.000



-96-                           Annex 4-1
SiERRA LEONE
fR iEOWN INFRASTRUCTURE REHALIUTAIO  PROJECT
Siem= Lero. Roads Auhaflt . Orniganaon Chrt
~suo                                    OGU"            P9*0-M
[   S,A.t    1
I .~
I-
IM6   --   OmI
I~~~~~A ,.  _ I
-  d.p,~~~~~~ a .  g~5c



-97-
An= -
Page I of 3
F,$0WN EMBSINUMMlR  REHABILTION RIC
DRF  IM  QFCI am= MR PRtOJECT NANA=E
BdWM
1.    The Freetwn nhstructure Rebilitation Pioject (FIRP), rrepared at tbh request of the
Govenment of Sierra Lene, wt the asisUce of the Internation  Development Asoct
(IDA), bas the following nain objectives:
(a)    To address the mjor and most urgent infastructurul deficiencies of the City by a
program of repair, rehabilitadon and upgrading of slum areas, markets and the
urban road and water supply systems, tackling first the highest priority and most
urgen deficiencies, to improve the living environment and socio-onomic
conditions of the urban poor which will not preclude options for re-development
in future to be defined by a medium to long-term planning process;
(1)   To provide technical assistance, training and essential materials and equipment in
key departments of Sectoral Agencies, to begin the process of institutional
development of these agencies and to prepare them primarily for the task of
operating and maintaining the improved facilities to be provided under Part (a) of
this strategy; and
(c)    To put in place a strategic planning framework to determine the medium and
longer-term growth charactaristics of the City to enable the preparation of
sensitive and appropriately dimensioned development programs for fture years.
2.    The achievement of the above objectives will be realized by the implmentatimon of an
itegad multi-sectora urban development project which will include; the construction of new
facflities and the rehabilitadon of older ones; advisory services and institutional development
within sectoral agencies to improve their fite performamce, particularly in the areas of operation
and maintenance and; studies to identify future urban development needs, both within and outside
Freetown. These three basic components are closely linked, and must be carefully coordinated to
produce the optimum result for the anticipated expenditure.
3.    This project therefore represents a diverse set of inter-dependent initiatives which will
require the development of a higher order of management skills than presently exist within the
public sector organizations responsible for implementing the Project.
4.    As part of the project, a Project Management and Coordination Unit (PMCUIFI) wiUl
be esblished to be responsible for project implementation. This Unit will be managed by a
Project Manager reportig direcdy to the Director General of the Sierra Leone Roads Authority
(SLRA). A Steering Committee, which will be chaired by the Mistry of Finance, and include
among Its membership DOPDEP, DOIA, DOHSS, DOLEP, DOLHE, SLRA and GVWC. Tbis



-98-
Ann 42
Page 2 of 3
Committee will provide the oveall gudnc to the project. 'Me Unit will nlude Staff
responsible for techical ae, pouremen and projeca accountig.
S.    It is therefore neesary to recuit externd services which will have three basic objectves:
(a) To head the PMCUI/FIRP and manage (on behalf of the Director
General, SLRA) all aspects of the implementation of FIRP.
(b)    To report to DG, SLRA and to the fuining agencies on all aspect of project
implementaion progess.
(c)    To train assigned counterpart staff, line officers of SLRA and other line
implementing agencies, in the managemen techniques required to successMy
implement multi-disciplinary ura development projects.
Scoot of ReS
6.    The Project Maiager's Scope of Work will comprise all those duties associated with the
efficient management of an internationally financed urban development project and wfll include,
but not necessily be limited to:
(a)    Manage and oversee the procurement of all goods and services required by the
project.
(b)    The preparation of a detaied project implementation schedule, to cover all project
components.
(c)    Up-dating of the implementation schedule and its periodic adjustment
(d)    Creation and maintenance of a management Information system, including regular
reporting to the implementing agency and the funding agency on implementation
progress.
(e)    Creation and maintenance of a financial information system to record and monitor
the financial progress of the project.
(f)    Technical monitoring and evaluation of all physical and non-physical project
components.
(g)    Quality control of all project outputs.
(O)    Preparation of a training needs assessment and training plan for in-house and
ex al training in project management.
0  ~     gRunning the thing program.



-99-
Annex 4-2
Page 3 of 3
0)    Assist inteatonl agencies and GOSL, with the identification and preparation of
future urban devopment projects.
(k)    epare mateial as the basi for a project comledon report (PCR) for FIRP.
0I)    Provide support and asistan  to vitig monitorg msios s from Govermen
The fnding agency.
(in)   Act as Seretary     advisr to the Project Steering Committee.
(n)   Draft Tms of Rderence for down stream advisory and supevisory services.
(o)    Others as required.
7.    lhe candidate for the post of Project Mager should demonstrate a high level of
eience In the formulation, desig and management of multi-sectoral, Integrated urban
development projects, specifically he should have the following qualifications:
(a)    A B.Sc. Degree in Municipal Engineering and/or urban planning.
sb)   A minimum of 15 years of post quaification working experience of
which the majority should be in the management of urban sector
project.
(c)    Considerable overe  expeience, on Technical Assistance assignments In third
World counries preferably including exeience of working in sub4sharan
Africa.
(d)    Should have experience in the formulation and operation of staff training
programs.
(e)    Should be familiar with guidelines for the procurement of goods and services as
specified for World Bank and other donor funded projects.
(t)    Should be computer literate.
(g)    Should be fluent in the English language and able to communicate ideas easily.
8.    The Project Manager will be based in SLRA, but will be required to liaise frequently with
oer imple    agencies and their advisors, including, Freetown City Council, Guma Valley
Water opy and the Department of Health and Social Seices.                f



-100-
Page 1 of 4
MmOJC MANAGEUM AM {:OORIXIAI2N IJNIT (MCLVFII
FEmons
1.    nhe fimctlons of the Project Management Unit (PMCU/P), as shown In the
organization chart on page 4 of this Annex, are to manage and monitor all aspects of the
implemention of the Freetown Inastructure Rehabilitation Project IRP) other than the water
supply component to be managed by the Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC), and to
coordinate with GVWC in the implementation of the water supply component. Prticular
functions wil Include:
(a)   Identfication and prreime  of goods and services required for project
implementation, including vehicles, equipment, consultancy services, constuction
crctos ec.
(b)    Monitoring implementation performance, le. monitoring the physical work of
consultants and contractors in creating projec benefits, incuding the creadon and
maintenance of project implementation records, charts etc.
(c)    Monioring financial progress, updating projec costs 0 ,a disbusement records
and prparing disbursement applicaions.
(d)      itaining finmcial ecords for financial planning, contol and adt purposes.
(e)    Convene regular meetings of the Steering Committee (SC) and record their
delberaons.
(t)    Ensure and monitor compliance with Project Covenant.
- _g)    Preparation of periodic progress reports, financial and technical to SC, the
Director General (MG) of SLRA, and to IDA.
Oh)    Be responsible on behalf of DG, SLRA for Public Relations, i.e. the
disseminion of relevant Project Indmation to the media and the gener pblic.
2.    In addion to the particular fncto  mentioned above, the PMCU/FIRP soud lo be
equipWed to provide other more general functions in compliance with good mmet
principles:
(a)    Establishment and maice of adequate document regity securt and filing
systems for both narrative docments and engineering drawings.



-101-
Page 2 of 4
(b)   Establish a core libraty of technical inormation petnent to the Project, for the
assistance of SLRA, other Govement and consultants and contactors.
(c)    Establishment of an eficient communications system, including fax, telephone,
(telex) and photocopier.
(d)    Establish compueize mangement and financial Iforaton systm.
3.    in addition to the Project Manager (covered under seprteo terms of reference) who will
be overall responsible for all of the funtIons of the PMCUIFP, three locally hired professional
staff will be required to efficiently manage particular aspects of FIRP, Including and Assistant
Project Manager, a Project Accountant and an Engineer/Procurement Specialist.
4.    The main duties of the Project Accountant will include:
(8)    Monitor the financial performance of the PMCU/FJRP against agreed budgets,
make regular cash-flow and budgetary projections.
1(b)   Monitor actual project eeniture profies agant agreed targets and give tdmely
advice to the Prject Manager for correctve action.
(c)    Mainta accurate financial recoWds for bohi the PMCU/FIRP an all project
componens.
(d)    Check and fbrward for approval by the Project Mmnager, claims for payment from
consultants, con  s and upliers.
(e)    Prepare disbursemet appUcatIons to be frwaded via SLRA to IDA.
(1)    Monitor and update disburent records.
A suitable candidate for thbis post would be a qualified accountant, preferably with previous
eperience of the accounting requirements of intemrtional fimding agencies.
5.    The main duties of the Engineer/Prcuement Specialst (who would receive prior, basic
instruction in procurement procedures from a member of the World Bank staft) will include:
(a)    From the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and related Credit/Project Agreements,
dearly identify and prepare lists of all goods and servic  to be procured under
FMP.
(b)   From SAR and reltd CraedlProject Agreements, idenfy procu_rment
methodologies to be adopted.
(c)    From the detailed Master Implementation Cbhrt (to be prepared by the Project
Manager) prepare an itemized action plan for ptocuement.



-102-
Page 3 of 4
(d)    Prepare procurement notices for local and internation  publication.
(e)    Where appropriate, review capability statem  of companis offering goods and
services and prepare shortlists of bidders.
(f)    Prepare bidding documents.
(g)   Invite bids from bidders.
(s)   Evaluate bids received and prepare recommendation on award.
(i)    Moniw delivery of goods and services, clearance tirough customs, and
perfornmance.
60)    Maintain a register of services providers for future procurement activities.
A suitable candidate for this post would have a technical backgound, preferably in civil
engineeng or construction management, and hold a recognized Univetsity degree, and would
have suitable experience in project procurement.
6.     SMM  Staff. In addition, the following s3pport staff will be required to support the
work of the professionals:
O     a Project secretary/receptionist responsible for generia secretaria duties, including
filing, typing, registry and communications.
O     A driver/messenger.
Other suWort staff would be drawn from the general staff of SLRA.
7.    Ibe PMCU/FIRP will be provided a minimum of two adJacent, reasonably dimesoned
offices win the SLtA conmlex at Klssy. The Unit will also rqWire two four-wheel drie type
vehic!Q. it the outset of its establishment. Early pome  action should be inidated on:
(a)   the purchase of the two vehicles,
(b)   the purchase of basic office furniture, including secure storage for both plans and
files,
(c)   the provision of a telephone line with a fax facility,
(d)   the hire or purchase of a medium to high capacity photocopy machine,
(e)    purchase of 3 desktop computers with a local area network system Sor information
exchange,
(f)    purchase of a Laptop computer.



-103-                          Annex 4-3
Page 4of 4
SIERRA LEONWE
FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
plrojet Mana        and Coordinaon Unit (PCUIFIRP)
ST cRINCOMrrrEEI
DIRECTOR GENERAL
#SL
ASSTANT
PROJECr MANAGER
m O S ENGINEER I
INO GVWC EN*EER 



-104-                            Annex 4-4
SIERRA LEONE
FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Gums Valley Water Company - Orguiluatlon Chart
I MInisty.fLmbe, 
rzwr
I    banMf
L   o    I~~~~~~~~Suo
eromw                          Aa~~~~~~~~onwerf  Ok
TmawwbftlWdin                            Mpwgcr
Iamomwof5



-105-                             Annex 4-5
SIERRA LEONE
FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURE REHAILUTATION PROJECT
Fretown City Council - Oranizatlon Chart
MonuiIt o
TorA
__-
anvd  osw         _  _ _  _ _ _
I~~~~n dloW
C UMtW and Tourisum
Mun pal Trad
_~~~~~~~ ::lyr   Tebl88sn an                                     .
Ew=  Piondd



PIZCOMsuF   3W.UIUTA!I&O6 SCUSULSusn
Blip Subsidiary LOam Agresmmlt 
Pz.seat uamob worm"bo                                     U
Anar.A1Md ftam Review                                                                                      IU
MOM=mr, am c
Ustabli shpeola  Acconats
Aggoint Projsct  snagstr                         I
Metablib gmW/FiM                                   I
Ami.nt Runiopel Baginar 
Appokint hadters 
COW   DQ  Rsaedu"iin NO.g..
Mm~ To Rewelus Assets                                      XI 
Establish FMC Ranteunmbo Emit
guscfrtsy Regatta                                                                                                   
Reisst w Water Isnitffsx                                                                                    
'?irne &= Land oisitiOn
Invit, bids te    LO tfA   t6
Subsit Sgvaiatin "pgart
ftnem ComettrLuoto
Msintmsno Porid
Prepa re iBe momunte
Prepare tede Doamats
Ptrocr voteotles uateristn
*pipes a"d Fitting
*ValwO and sydrante
Plaunts and Uqpt.
*  aguesioario  Up
lag. Su.for iPrauzmnt
Award UCs CoantrateI
Gaminm Aetering Saiting
Gamaoce Laif  Maine                                                                                           I  -iIX1H I
0I1



1993                    1994                    1995                     1996                    1997
comm.  tp1LekDtotn                                             
comm   Se  3Dt.ta
webk. A*flt. LtLe   e.t
CompI..Ratxpo
CoUto V    aendo Documents                    . . .
lraziu  Netiosx
fteqeelity C tDo      :tl_I
.inte side for Ies (lO ?)
subt Swaluati_oport                               _
AV.td  castac
lxepez. Vnal AmunAt
coeplet. edt omt
lavit. Tide                                                                                                            11t  111 (1           111)               0
Submt tweluetion Deport
"a m4    om f8tupen fo FM                                                  9 1t11trt            
an~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v .tmxiwt
~mmo  Cometruotiomqupa
meom  m    bm UF*U  £mm
"at S     mpi mat rowCOB
m Anowls Sguim.t.
Vreetoas Stroual- Plan
RI Rviw S "tu ft
ong. and flmanil Sutud of mmC



$ IAe
sign
gf.oativeu.ew 
Completion
alum Upgrading                                                                                                                      1.61
market Upgading                                                                                                                     2.81
All ReOad                                                                                                                             13 _lCZ   I Lot)
Water Suppy
Supply   te                                                                                                                         0.79 (.LC3 3  OtS0)
Leak Deteactio Survey A Repar                _01l0 _                                                                                     (NO)
COsnOtLOS a Metering                                                                                                                2.63 (1.8 9 160215
contracts
SW xqolpmoot                                                                                       :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~45 (iLot Otker)
leak Set. Spt.                                                                                                                      01 .1Lot IS)
Roadtr                                                                                                                              0.57  te 1_ 01 1 )
ipes Coupl ain       Plumbing                      _   _RIot                                                                                        I1I)
Valves Rydrauts A Sail Valvea                                                                                                       0.07 (Rtiot LIS3)
VeOhisS                                                                                                                             0.54 (zoo" 1.5a.               a
plant & Uguiumut                                                                                                                    01.33 (1S*t ZS)                0O
caom      n iotiv:s                                                                                                                 0.07 .l..t .S)
Office Sqimuoot                                                                                                                     0.01 tiSat is)
Read aice.  dquipee_t                                                                                                               0.69 (Zen .I  I1)
FM0 3quiwnt                                                                                                                         0.39
v.pA ves + spare                                                                                                                    0.23 Eli-Ot IS)
,A& oftf.  ,quiai t                                                                                                                  0.00 (Other)
P ad Stee. materials                                                                                                                0 I I I I  ! .03
FMc mote. Depot                                                                                                                     01
MunicipalL ftugier                                                                                                                  06
wMuicipal Fi. Zapt.                                                                                                                0OAS
frtect ManagerC                                                                                                                     0.65
Studies                                                                                                                             3.36 (Tte      AM$15
Pro5ect Supervision                                                                                                                 0.91 (Otber 3 WM15
VA gor 0150                                                                                                                         0.69 (Other 1 LOOT)
Mm3 Supervisor                                                                                                                      0.32
FCCM NoSalaries                                                                                                                    045
4SYNC GM5 Import Tax S
Duties for Pt. & sg.                                                                                                                 1.4
Land Acquisitoio                                                                                                                    0.05
Install ComnAication Mqpt.                                                                                                          0.01
Refund III                                                                                                                           1.5
2MMA                                             10.3__ __ __ ___ __   12___ __ __ __7.09                   3.18              36
ISA  rinaneed  comanpn t          1.7         7___ _ S__ __       _ __ __ __ __              .7                2.3               26    _ _ _ _ _ _



-109-
Annex A48
mm ER&IEUC REff"IMlA"MQl O
Disbursement             Afric Proflle
Bank                    Semester    Cumulative    %            (Urban)
FY       Semester                   (US$ Million)                %
1994        I            1.7          1.7        6.5             0.0
II          2.8          4.S        17.3            6.0
1995        I            3.0         7.5        28.8            10.0
U           3.5         11.0        42.3            14.0
1996        I            4.0         15.0       57.6            22.0
la          3.6         18.6        71.5           30.0
1997        I           2.7         21.3        81.9            38.0
XI          2.0         23.3        89.6           50.0
1998        I            1.7        25.0        96.1            58.0
II           1.0        26.0       100.0           66.0



-1 10-
,Amue 4-9
Page l of 3
ERV^S IO PLAN AM KE FRCENRA INDCAIOR
Apprxi, at              Activity                Expeted Sidi         Stf input
Dabe ________                               Reqiaat             (aff-Weeks)
07/93  Supervision Mission          Task Mager                    7
Municipal Engineer
Prcurement Speciist
Finncial Analyst
10/93  Project Launch Workshop     Task Manager                   10
Municipal Engineer
Financial Analyst
Economist
Procurement Specialist
02/94  Supervision Mission          Task Manager                  7
Municpal Engineer
Fiancia Anayst
Urban Planner
Sociologist
06/94  Supervision Mission          Task Manager                  6
Municipal Engineer
Financial Analyst
Urban Planner
10/94  Annual Review                Task Manager                  6
Municipal Engineer
Eoonomist
Financial Analyst
Urban Planner
02/95  Supervision Mission          Task Manager                  6
Municipal Engineer
Financial Analyst
Sociologist



-111-
Page 2 of 3
Appwoiate               Actvity                Expected SkilU       Staff Input
Date                                        Req irements        (Staff-Wes)
0695  Supervision Mission          Task Manager                   6
Municipal Engineer
Financial Analyst
Ura Planer
10/95  Annual Review               Task Manager                  10
Municipal Engineer
Financial Anayst
Urban Planner
Sociologist
Eeonomist
02/96  Supervision Mission         Task Manager                  6
Municipal Engier
Financial Analyst
06/96  Supervision Mission         Task Manager                  6
Municipal Engineer
Financial Analyst
Economist
10/96  Ammal Review                Task Manager                  6
Municipal Engine
Financial Analyst
Urban Planne
02/97  Supervision Mission         Task Manager                  6
Municipal Engineer
Financial Analyst
Sociologist
07197  Supervision Mission         Task Manager                  6
Municpal Engineer
Financial Analyst
Economnist
12/97  Supevision Mission          Task Manager                  8
(PCR)                       Municipal Engineer
Financial Analyst
Sociologist



SERRA LEONE
FREETOWN INFRASRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROWECT MONITORING INDICATORS
Target.
ye          Ta           Yew          yew          Y    P*
ncece 2"it                         Inicdam             Unit         yet                           2            3            4            S
1.0    w_  Ud w^
(a)hap.o Wof wek                _a.hkeduN PtY vahu              hI.              19           20          21           22           23           24           20
(b) Impro mvfraw.eaum3          hcumg h g1 vahisb etaaIl                        326          426         526           26726                    978          97
cmmditam k MacId                                              IAoaMay
(a) _InsW  3ada  -oa            mour l  unia -            . .
idepum     _ am.              cululd                          3Idjq          30           30           S            80          110         140           14
(d) la w efficec unA            Durnowad tee wt_                5                50          45           40           35            5           35            3S5
4cvy da qdf NV*
Muuur U~Ub.                    1.N.                      12.00W       14.000       15.000       1500l       15.000        15.00
I ame      t p                  No.            500          550          600          50          IN           100           700
Exwed aqp§m a. dkmidIoa
fedysow                        KM.               0            7           14    19     7           3            21            21
(e) Roudwoe                     Deemas vIlkd epeng cam          US ed             0           7            9           It           14           16            18
I_p .ms=Aytw                    S               40            0           s           35           to           10            so
2.0   E_"          * Su;l. of
(4) cV.i semi"                  s        a FCC MsAhmns          Km.               0          10           10           iO           t0           t0          '51
nyudI~ 'me) he dr cash
GbWOMgPe.t.rndoff              No.               0            2           4            4            4            2            to       , 
(b) low_   umeeoldl             Accmw*Ruodvsb                   Das             153     1     46         S00           d0 40                     60           60 
(GVW.V)                                                                                                                                                                 
ldme OnmO   mg, f                                                         2 d                       s            7            4        W
ans" i hepduah(S)                                                                                                                      01
(a) Dett Savicoe IO.S)          D-as,                            imm            3.5          1.5          1.          1.5          Is           IS 1.         1
(4 Uus_be  sa__a. pfUs            Meu      ha    hpw             m                0          20          100          200            0          414          434
a  hfetoe p_4io



-113-
Annas &M1
Page 1 of 3
MMN MIAMM9UEMN RW1&RIM1X&= PROJEC
EMONMATAL IMPACT A_TiM    AN EUVATI?I ELN
1.    In the past few years, there has been a marked decline In the quaity of Infastructure and
services in the Freetown area. Six settlements which have been most affected and have been
listed 'or emergency upgrading to improve their environmental quality are Brookflields, Ginger
Hall, Congo Market, Kroo Bay/Kroo Town, Susan's Bay and Mabella Bay. Six markets at Kroo
Town Road, Bombay Street, Garrison Street, Guard Street, Smythi Street and Kennedy
St/assy Street bave also been included in the rehabilitation package. It is proposed under the
project to construct/rehabilie access roads and drains, increase water supply coverage, Improve
general sanitai  and solid waste management itl the project area.
2.    The Environmental Impact Asesment (EIA) has been caried out to assess the
environmental impact of the project with proposak fxr mitigating the negative impa.ts that it may
have. It concludes that the loW-term envron l mpact of the proposed project is highly
positive. However, short term environmental impacts, particularly during the construction
riocess, are negative and should be reduced/mitigjted as far as possible by the environmental
.:atigation program outlined in tabular form at the end of this annex.
3.    Access roads in the project area are generally of poor standard. Rehabilitation and
resurfacing of these roads should reduce dust pollution in the settlements and also facilitate
aclessibility to enable services to penetrate these areas. The construction and rehabilitation of
drains in the areas should lead to better management of suIage and storm water flow. On narrow
road segmen, covering the drains for use as pedestrin walkways should minimize pedestrian
vehicular-conflict.
4.    During the construction phase, scraped road surfaces should be intermittently doused with
water to minimize dust nuisance. Noise levels during the rehabilitation phase may increase
significantly due to the use of heavy road construction equipment. Construction should,
therfe, be minimized in the late evenings so as not to cause annoyance to residents. Areas
where aggregate will be obtained for the construction of the roads should be rehabilitated at the
end of the project by revegetatng scared landscapes and where possible covering borrow pits.
S.    In the settlements of Kroo Bay, Susan's Bay and Mabella, the upgrading measures being
proposed should make life more tolerable for the residenot in the short term. Vector control
measures such as eradicadon of mosquitoes shoud awso be initiated. In the long term, however,
consideration should be givein to relocation of the settlements. This will be studied under the
strucure plan for Greater Freetown to be financed under the project. Increased water supply and
sanitation eoverage should have a positive effect on health standards in the settements.
6.    Erosion is a major problem in some of the settlements. Mitigative measures should
include re-vegetation to reduce storm water flow which in the long term should prolong the life of
engineering stuctures and embakment stngtening and course-training of major water course
in the settlemenats.



-114-
An= L:1
Page 2 of 3
7.    A common feature of all the markets is the poor state of access roads, uncovered drains
with stagt pools of s9uige, pedestrian vehicutla conflict in the immedite envirns and
dilapidated structues and stals. Rehabita   of the roads should reduce dust potllion in the
market areas. Covrintg of the drains In the immediate environs of the markets for use as
pedestrian walmws should miiize pedestrian-vehicular conflicts in the market areas and
reduce tly contact with efflue in the drains. Pavemen  of the market precincts should offer
better opporuites for cleaing of the markew and facilitate movement around the markets. The
provision of toilet and ablution facilities and increased water supply and sanitaton coverage
should Improve hygiene considerably In the markets. Toilets located too close to tbe narkets
should be relocated to appropriate distances from the markets.
8.    Hygiene at the abattoir at Guard Street should be improved. Effluent generated at the
abattoir should not be discharged into the bay, without prior treatment. Such effluent should be
collected in holding tanks and removed inermittey to more suitable sites.
9.    There will be temporary disruption of selling in the markets during the rehabilitation
phase. Where possible, temporary areas should be assigned to the vendors to ninimize economic
hardships during the constuction phase. Conotucon should be phased to disturb trading as litde
as possible.
10.   Suhstantial efforts and progress were made by FCC and the various Government
departments concerned in prepating and fiaHzing the relocation plans for the residents to be
affected in the Bombay Street Market (1 dwelling with 16 persons) and Kroo Bay slum area (4
dwellns with 65 persons). The authorities had held discussions with the people to be relocated,
identified the state land for resetdement in Kroo Bay area, assessed the costs involved for the
relocation and proposed to include funding provisions in the Government/FCC budgets to
complete the relocations by October 1993.
11.   Beautification of the project area through planting of treeshshbns should create a more
congenial emironment for rasidents of the setlements.
12.   Ihere is the need for a general environment education in the setdements and markets in
the project area to create awareness in enviromnental hazards as regards health and sanitation.
For instance, the need to cover food on sale in the markets may be realized by vendors through
such educational programs.



-1 15-
Page 3 of 3
UMAQW92M AO    EA - GL                                =
EM ~ ~~EMA    AC=y FiTON  R NWzATIV
1. Dut on se ped read  aces.                Dou rmittmaty with wate.
2. Pedetin-vehIulr conflict oan nar          Covr dmains for use asl ys by
toad segments and aoud make tA
3. Poor sanitation and bygiene in the prodect  ncreas water supply and sanitation coverge.
ares.
4. Dispion of madrkt activities dung         AUocate oraxy areas to vendor/phase
rehabilitation.                          construction to disupt tading as lte as
possile.
S. Icreased noi level during rbito           Minii  construction with hev equipmnt i
phs                                       lt evengs
6. Et dedton in aetlets                      i   e hodwt teWm tem y upgrdig of
and Bays.                                infr cte and vectors (mosquito) cotol
measure. In the long term rlocion of
sottlments.
7. Upgn    sanitation in markets.            Pave market prencts to facilitate cleaing.
S. Congestio in exsting markets              Coucw more makets to absob street
vendors.
9. Disrti  of utility sercs (dol r,          SLRA shud hold consultations with utilities to
water, post and telcom.                  demarcate aa where soervis a  located to
minmize dis_ption during constucion phaso
10. Toilets cited inapoprIaey too Close to  Relocate
market
11. Relocation of afficted dwellings.       Compate finiallylresettle those affected.
12. Aes where aggretes will be won for      Rehabilitaion including gssing/planting of
constucting                              trees.
13. Lows of tre/sub cover in setdtlem        Replant  pia  pecies to beautify
14. Landfill sites                           Short term - fec
Long term - relocate
15. Pollution of eaviroAnnt aound landfil    Monitor qality of suface waters which are
sites.                                    potentially susceible to lachat poldtution."
16. Su_sinable eanimental development       WIormal environmntal education using e.g.
press, radio, etc. Community participation.



-116-                                            Annex 5-1
3I3C01      130 lil L13f_
am unmu Vo Cmm
- an cm  amK
(m303 @00)1
(AT 30813h  33201)
1932       1984       19l7 s988               1989      1990      1991      19
RUNWEUS  gm0 VA3                               3529       4274      40344       74474       77034   13S15      245113   684374
0131 331SU                                      342        574       1448        4914        35)    20070    23714    45914
101x3?.  Asn108                                3891       4350      4138)       7959)       85417    151W3    290327   730308
UI1UN 301MU"                                   340        450       3440        2650        5439      8440    33907    9030
13 PANFS?  S                                   3591       4400      39)93       7694)       79978   143148    259920   440007
= upassiu  musXt s                              5ne        985       7424        9219       12242    14394      27449    5084
3WMAN35D 1 AIVAS380                             5a0        715       7146        815S       13591    24794    427        1331f9
£0141513so  1X33ZS3                             395        492       2242        3150        4807    13634      35087    5437S
01asc3 rsow                                     305        561      12200       12375       12914    17832    19041    214S
TOT"1 OPRA3S13  SOMMONS1                      1798       27S3      29228       3309        45576    72708   144542   260711
03Z3223  23001                                 1793       1447      1015        43344       34402    70440   115378   39254
1311RS.                                         5         1065      14914       55471       35104   123094   101413   120335
gm! I300n3/19S                                 1206        582      -4749      -11427        -702   -56254    13940   258921
51085os 10n5                                                       29809     -116042    -205525  -915985  -303144  -19S177
gm1 1301/10   eV1Di3. R30 1U8D                 1204        S82      25040    -127649      -204227  -968639  -289184        3044
"31ms 10 1XD. FMs3                              215        349       5414        99)7       1S795   -41289    137             0
PROT1/1088 "03 mm *   7T3M                     991        2$3      19446    -137404      -222022  -1029923  -f27809      43304
Pfl0?XIIWSS c15MZXD 103w35                     1723      -3840    -208719    -346325      -548347 -159627S  -20^Sl. 3 -193129
gatlosb
Operetlas .oet/R.v aufO(8                     o.s5       0.63       0.74        0.43        0.57      0.S1    OS.        0.41
Rtuxa on A*avwg
vet Fixed assets La Operaticm  (3)               1S         13          4          17          13        24        44       142
(A! 0033131 PRIM5)
ugvrUU wNM tUSZR                              10379       7432       3073       11146        7133      5743      5701    14713
OTHER 33VI83                                   1046S     1029        294         734         its       874       410       988
Tom*L voSYu s                                 11444       3461       047        11"79        7927      4420      4319    15704
UNCOLSeosLXCRA                                    2        004        483         394         522       369       729      1942
mmS REGrsomm                                  10542       7357       7379       11484        7405      42S1      5590    13744
O@12131 3313833                                1735       1759       1485        1376        1135       716       SS5      1093
RmuAS *JD M UMlMU*303                          1494       1277       1473        1247        12s5      103       Us*0    2881
aDiLNUI5X0PA     1313                          1142        379        443         470 Q)0                98       7ss      1149
DZYRCCSASSO8                                    S9t       1002       2440        1847        1194       779       409       444
TMAL OPEPAISB 3XPDNS55                         5283       4914       5844        4940        4220      3175      310s      5408
ONFOXIS10 13CC"                                5274       2941       203)        6544        3135      3074      2481      3156
1t3R1581                                       1724       1902       293)        3279        3250      5375      2131      2583
an5  SSCC0ZzLOSS                               3547       1039       -950       -1735         -65    -229         300      5548
vXe1310  Z08S                                     0          0       5942      -17320      -190Q    -39999    -4519    -4212
NM X11o003/05s 5Y Dz9. R3D FM1                 3547       1039       5012      -19055      -19095   -42299    -6219        1)56
1S30' - R0 330. no                              432        42S       112S        148)        1463    -2474       2963         0
Mrom /weSS  OR 233 rsI  Tax                    2915        416       3889      -20533      -20553   -44975    -9202        1)54
33Oi1705 CaPtSz3  OXSROD                       5032      -4357    -41744       -51490      -5242s   -49794   -43574   -42218



-117-                                               Annex 5-2
a wf _m mIx u
MME@ -
(LamS 000)
(AT 3OUIA   M3103)
1962       1964       167          1986        196ot     1990       1991      199
3NM 11238 ASSIS                                1179*       1370      35904)      2S1344       266831    273803    260454    267835
33-=-310394                                     2960        3300       6043 100                6276      9268     20046      19101
ssVs*M9                                          149         1SS        155         15s         1S5        16s       155       1s5
SnCUL Ron" IxWJUI'NU                             460         460        480         480          480       430       480       4A0
1441       16703     267761       260001      277842    26370s    281155    267564
cuauam Assm
swiv rouxs                                       372        433       3220         5607        66569     76227     65426    114396
DA303S PM0 3A!                                  1451        23271     18929       44179        63126     83465    188741    3s24s4
0OS 3380S                                        671        734        4014        423S         4617      SS43         a
cas A! mu  ND  3 U                              1980       431S      111s        42933        ss58l    67560    103479    2ss413
4474       7ss3      36061       94954       190143    253014    377846    759293
FalUwa  DN 3     3 03  T3R                      1S03        3920      78721      141346       2S1640    372246    S67096    94486
SM  e11 a2                                      2971        2923     -4060       -44414       -61717  -119234  -189240    64045
19392      20636     227101       215567      214125    143471      61907    352371
sun  0* 2                                       s4          549        5469        5449          469      S469      S469       5469
S3v36                                           5746        1600     64292       -43277      -166425 -11S5344 -144248 -1381257
CAPL                                           11237        7269       9661      -5760e      -1609S6 -1149595  -1436779  -1375768
Lo36 SOR  0*lm                                  6S1        13367     157240      2)339        397081   1313066  1S306"6  1726159
0*292 A3  LIA8&93                              19392       20636     227101      215587       2 a 2S    163471     91907    3S2371
Ratio*
oguest ltios6)                                     3           *          0           1            1         1         1          1
Loog toe 3cinvabl   (daje)                      124         176        165         203          269       201       234        160
Debt as a of DOetWititytS)                        42          *S         69         127          164       60       1665        490
(Al COEWNS 331I39)
NW V Xtt   ASxSM                               34662      22600       51813       37502        2499      1191)      5601      S760
WYOK-13-IRCARZS                                1170         589)       1613        1209          776       405       432        411
239     SSS                                      497         277         31          23           14         7         3          3
6P3C.JA1. 19V3 INvES2InM                        1412         S57         96          72           44        31        10         10
48297      29627      535S2        26606       25726     12345       6046      6164
zuvnoahasf                                      1094         773        441         627         6166      3329      1041       2460
D3S8R3  FM3 VAMPR                              4268        4234       3766        6594         5645      2653      4059       7731
0359  D3B3OR8                                   1974        1311        603         632          426       242          0      4138
CAN3 A! MM3K AND XV NW8                         5624        770S       2383        6408         514s      3624      2225       6138
13160      14022       7412        14471       17606     11049       8126    14329
v nz   onE w3I9  an3*ZER                        4421        7000      15744       31100        23320     162SS     12196      14935
NS  08R333f  "85ax                              6716        702       -6122       -6429        -571      -5207     -4070       1394
$70)5      34650      4S420        32177       20012       7138      1974      7576
933  0*A211*1                                  14066        9766       1094         616          506       233       116        116
2a561V39                                       18965        3214      12676       -9444       -17262    -50439   -31059   -29704
CAJ11*2                                        33050       12961      13972       -6426       -16755   -50201    -30941   -29507
1036 im I  Ar                                  23985       23)70      21446       40*05        36767     5$739      32918     37145
83)29*2. AND 113a11Z.LS                        57625       34650      45420       j2177        20012      713        1976      758



-118-                                              Annex 5-3
m -m Sa
(1.31 *000k
lot     24 -                   11U          is.         so       Is         in:i
soum ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ s or
paoOO  on 0:320942. Or @30=W. AG48T1               -4          -3                                          -1131
LOSS 03 M202*                                       a           a0   -39505        114042      304741    915931    303144   9ISS6
15K  033n        MM 0PWAUSS                      1107        1141       7444          747       13450   -35954       33001    204044
U   MM   w VIe  eM                                                      -                                            S *Se n1 *S3seX^ §5
3322029.                     US2
D012 03 433c                            126                                                                85534         0
at an o04303!0                                   1301        1*41       7444          747       1341S    -3S954    -13233    340484
,acoau   n      uss*  0 v   uing    r  z     AwSSS  s                                                       1131
To 3mitm                                           13
GU1S  CDS T52-L3                                  S5e1         43
0P SCM   OfnD
24.12    e       -50  3*1                                     4*3
50232.    or3 I1II                               1814        1495       7444         747        13450    -3493    -1*52        2042e
Tom   Qor 1933    a71                                         914       1845         4494       30755      3264     10301       24643
903        73*       $s19        -3749       -1730S    -17117    -70014    254094
233ASSu(ONCUSZ) Me Wf2MP C35M*2
852                                               -93         -44       1382         2404       40*ss       9433      9401      24764
033523                                            2449        4s       13434        *5473       19334      31444     9934    170743
028503                                           -404       -1090     -14044       -42444     -110(2   -130340   -194348   -127392
CM  AT 31                                        1230        1049       6S13        31019       13077      31749     1s59    141937
923        739       559         -3749       -17301    -S7517    -70014    *54056
Debt .avl"(tin")                                   1S           0          0            0            0         0     o       e
sQ0eS or0   0                                    3547        1039       1010      -1s901       -19091    -42*29      -a219       135
397       1003       2440         1847         11*$       779        409       44
35T2 33_3 333314  3u5n2                           -12          -4          0            0            0       -49          0         0
rc21og                                              0           0      -5941        17330       19145      39999        519      41*1
pa0wn 03 035904*2 or 513932. ASm.s
*442 on ugmSh                                    44*2        2037       1469          III        124S    -2170          710      4032
20*2 033&93 1M0 013*0A03                            0           0          0            0            0         0      1039          0
371          0          0            0            a         0          0         0
2.333 Moff S31203 23                              371           0          0            0            0         0       1339         0
1a22992                     4043        2037       1449          its        1245      -1570     -1130       6032
33!  c*  433m50
S uuoinIORSOIS                                     1s           4          0            0            0        op          0 o
34          0          0            0            0         0          0         0
Pasua     7 FM   3    . of       Asem               0                       0                          0 a  o  e          a         a
rA.OaslMin20                                                    a          0            0           0          a          0         a
Ave040*1                                         1032         112          0            0            0         0          0         a
433-2.023a                                          0         273         0a                         0         0          0         0
-Xw                                                 o         eu           o                         o                    o
3s52.3s25u3 mOg      am                          5445        s0a?       144           111        1245      -11s       -2130      4033
CIi0Z013 er 133S                                 3574        1704        369          471         2844       991        S74       $40
0          0          0            0            0          0         0         0
11403A30?or 1Us$=                                   0           0          0            0            0         0          0         0
39023f 223313333f
C*    1   1UIID1513                             2374         1704        369          471        2843        991       2215      5"a
Tom. to"1 10                                      0991       1320       1120         -S40       -1402      -25S1     -1506       1464



-119-
AM4
M  VALE WATEEAA
IOR  OF WATER T11
(pe 1000 gllons)
I Tariffas at     Tadffas at    Tanffas at   Tadffa at     Taiff au at
l_______________  30 Apr. 1989  1 lan. 1990    1 Jul. 1990   1 SepL 1991   1 Ju 1992I
1.                      L.a 120.00       L  160.00 IL 500.00    L  1,s50.00  La 2,500.00
2  S-ppins                 Le 365.00     Le 480.00    US$lC.00       US$20.00    US$20.00
3. Educatonal iumideu      Le 12.00      Le 16.00    L. 50.00      Le 150.00   Le 300.00
aurchw and Mosqus           .        
J 30 Apr 1989    lNov 1990    l Nov 1991 | _|_I Nov 1992
i_____            __    ALe 1.6011    Le 2.80        Le 5.oo                     Ls _00
LI of  nual Ratbl Value



-n -4 u_a
_ VALL   mmR COUW
loom  uo
1992        199S        1994        199s         1996                    1998        1999        2000
MM  P3.DUc!sw(mg)                           5110000000  51100000   51O1000  4599000000 4820950.00  S070191500 5323917)7S  5590113244  5869618S06
351 low080                                          54          54          40           40          3S          Ss          3S           35          35
DBLUD/8911m  10w!0        tug)              2350600000  2350600000  2810500000  2759400000  3138817500  329575875 3460546294  1633573606  3815252289
MUM  !mflfl(11O1OZ0)                            291.15      410.63      444.00       41S.00      7SO.00      900.00        1050         1125        1200
Ms/10ooo                      o.sa        0.S         0.77        0.96         1.10        1.24        1.36        1.16         1.36
env5m   ma n3                                   684374     1033405     1)04072      1697031     2354113     296"183     3633574     4087770      4576303
@1    in 35to4man                                45934       51610       65204        64052      117706      148309      181679       204389      226915
Tom  s63w6                                      730308     1080075     1)69276      1761833     2471319     3114492     391S252     4292159      4807216
_COMMIAMW                                        90301      155011      156489       149703      188329      2)7295      290666       327022      366264
m  UsWUS4                                       640007      9)004      1212787     1612179      2263490    2377197      SS24566     19651)       4440OS4
ora!sm  1Q353                                    50846      162997      210446       25593M      311661      261327      46762)      5749SO       706S3S                I
IU3  AN3D 33I3311S3C                            133968      190101      211582       231035      251705      274297      290993      525994       355522
AUNUZ8WM!W3 5333N53S                             5437S       9S753      110116      122326       141962      165650      t9SOlS      230732       274597
D_3530A!10                                       21562       29779      485113       722831      940464      96494      1023494     1003494      1163494                1
SO3   t3313  311363                             240751      498629     1017257      13)2130     1446012     1604967     196S524     2315170      2122148
OP _A!1   g8a33           81X                   37925S6     4)143S      195530       280049      637477     1072230     1539443     1749967    l9106
UK                                                          147S23           0            0           0           0           0            0      3601s5
013       nrcet A3S03  sas                      379256      2B6912      195530      280049       637477     1072230    1539443      1749967    1556656
-IISIS                                          120335        4080       20565       68943       236043      246592      253X141     439976      446623
an 1300u/wms                                    256922      279932      174944      211106       39943S      625637     120630'    1309991       1111833
330lUl33  Z£s5                                  195877     993)S        266654      322929       601S71      561156      62699s      414127       6<8205
emoi/o/ss  03 TI3 WNACMX TM                      63045     -703S63      -91710     -111623    -202134        264481      659307       75664       463626
lu011!/£0s U33SD  UIFl                        -1963133    -2666696    -275405    -2870226   -307236S   -2807683    -2148577    -14729S13    -1009285
Ratio.
Operating oot/Reweae(t)                           0.60        O.S4        0.6          0.67        0.63        0.71        0.64        0.67        0.67
*t.ea Avxago led A.s*tm(S)                        0.00      113.99        S.29         2.00        3.36        5.07        7.27        8.16         6.62
ifn



vagaInm zuNVAswRuCou aaSIZ!a32%U IPROM=
sma mA  wa uow
(Low03 000)
1992        1993         1994        199S         1994        1997        199i         1999        200
333 TX=  ASS6S                                   26763S      409124    11373"4    16607461    21107642    21200066    21176592    21593099    23909605
U0K t-1I-D6336                                    19101
-of moIws                                           150         150          1SO         150          150         1SO          150         150          150
SlUIL 33333M  3 ma    aBINU                        4no           460         460         4S0          460         460          480        460           460
267566      469754    11367964    16608111    21106472    21200714    21177222    21593726    22910235
IWUBUKZ&=s                                       114396       74794       152569      199620      246902       270745      297769       332276       370322
-omm=                                            359464      316555       547710      44S471       395491      496319       610440      666745       769155
Can  W. am83 aMD IV mm                           265413       62091       40495       3170S1       777171     1906520      3106161     4164123      4027249
759293      453443     1105134        42321     1419560      2675504     4016370      516314      5174726
crnom s                                                                                                                                                             N
161LT.6 DUB 11T11N 0SB YE4R                      694466      106715       279B69      549652      1033597     1550934      2101644     2674096      364241
MNM COUNVt ASS36/LZtSILXIUS                       64605      346727       625245      413669       365963     1124649     1914526      2309048      147546S
10261 AS83S1 LB" CURR. Lin.                      352371      636481    12213226    17021760    21494456    22325365    23091746    239027?6    24345720
CAPITAL AmD RESBRVE8
CMLL3D UP SBARm  CAPIrAL                           5469     1223672      1223672     1223872      1223672     1223672      1223672     1223372      1223672
33636B38                                       -1381257    -2084622      7198276     7066455    6664316       7148800     780810S      8483770      8947198
CAPITAL                                        -1375s76     -860950      84221S0     8310327      6106190     6372672     9031977      9707642    10171270
LoW   TM  LOANS                                 1728159     1697431      3791079     8711454    13366264    13952693    140S9770    14195134    14214450
LI38LIUNS                                      352371      636461    12213228    17021760    21494456    22325365    23001748    23902776    24365720
Ratio.
cu=eat rati@(tiae.)                                1.09         4.25        3.95        1.75         1.37        1.73         1.91        1.60        1.40
Debt os   of DebUtIq(dty                         V 0.44      202.93        31.04       S9.09        6202e       62.S0        60.9        S9.39 50  29
Debt as t of Dobt+sqmity
ISoludlag UEbaxuga Losees                         55.76      129.70        27.67       46.02        56.15       58.06        56.59        M.1S       56.29



BxiW    r.i
VUUSOU            -n  RNHADIX!A!ZO3 XS1r
m VUw m camm
(BOIU 000)
AC         TUAL_____ __                                                    _ _ _ _ _
1992        199)         1994         1995        1994         I99?        1998         1999         2000
soUmom or EDS
rate2maAi Cash Generation
not Incoue                                         63045     -703563       -91710     -111823      -202136       264481      659307       675664       463620
Dapr.>latio                                      21562        29779       485113       722831      940464       983494     1023494      1083494    1l1494
L'-  an exchangs                                 195877       983)95       266654       322929      601571       5611S6      62699S       634327       648205
!otcl Internal Cash Generatten                   280484       309611       660057      933938      1)398"       1809131     230979S      2393484      2295327
1*.. Debt services lnterest                            0        4080        20585       68943       238043       246592      253141       439976       446823
Principal                         0       23460       128348       140561      263392       273327      245821       108913       199049
Total Debt Servioe                                     0       27540       14893)      209504       501435       519919      498942       628890      645872
lWt Cash Generation                              280484       282071       632517      785004      1130395      1307696     1789876      1894522     1666437
EXpKn41& porrcadies
Prose"4d DDa Loan                                             173250      1386000      866250       519750       173250
nter.Z taans                                                                          1925000      1925000
cniber Soureas
Govt                                                           58567       448534     1955129      183799S       333457            0           0            0
Chan"e in current l1abilItIMS                    127)92      -587773       173174      268763       484945       517337      550910       772252      825145
Total Soureas                                    407076       -73884      2660225     5800146      S898085     2331740      2340786      2666774     2491582
lncatioml
Capital   pedituret-D-IDa OAX                                 251067      2008534     1255334       753200       251067           0            0            0
Capital Napmnditure (Othwr)                       26428                               4687625      4687625       824670     1000000      1SOOOOO     2500000
Work in Progress                                              -19101            0            0           0            0
otra ominio
DV ntr7Y                                          28768       -39602        77794       47231        47082       23843        27023        34507       46047
Debtor                                           170743       -42929       231155     -102240       -4080       102828       112122        76305       82409
Total aypilction                                 225939       149436     2317483      5887950      5437928     1202408      1139145      1610812     2628456
Change iD Cash                                   181937      -223320       342742      -87805       440157      1129333     1201641      1055962     -136874
Annel Debt Servi   Cb4rage2
Patbo(tiSs)                                        0.00         0.00         4.43        4.46         2.67         3.48        4.63         ).81         3.55



-123-
Page 1 of 6
GL~LEYWATERSCMPANY
EREEFOiV UMMRAU-CME REBUlJTSMM
ESSQSS M FMANIA E&PIQJECIXM
A. Generaw
1.    The financial projecions have been prepared In current Leones and domestic inflon
rates from the World Bank are as follows:
Estimated Annua
EX                  Infiadon rateM
93                         33.3
94                         17.9
95                         10.0
96                         10.0
97                         10.0
2.    The following average exchange rates are used:
EX                         LelUSSI
93                         520
94                         600
95                         642
96                         682
97                         724
98                         769
99                         817
2000                       868
B.    Income Stments
Revenues
3.    In the absence of univrsa mering it has not been possible to detemine actu
deand of water. Ihe proJections were based on the management's premise th  the current
consLlIpion provides the nearest estmate to demand and this is antciated to remain constant
between 1993 and 1994 and to drop by 10% with te implemention of universal metering
efectve November 1 1994. From 1996, a year after implementation of universal meterage,
demand is anticipated to increase by 5% amnually reaching producdon capacity of 18 mfllion
gallons a day in year 2000. T e reduction in water leakage fiom 54% in 1993 to 35% in 1997
will ensure an accrual of more revenue to the company.



-124-
Page 2 of 6
4.    TAM: A maximum 10% overall increase In tadffs will be ef ve from
November 1 1993 which will be a 100% increase in general rates of the non-metered
domestc conumers(who contribute 10% of the reveue) from Le 10 per anna rateable
value (ARV) to Le 20/ARV ad no change In the present taifffor the metered commerciad
antd ndus    custom . Ihereaft  the taiff is determined by the financial requiem     of
the Conany.
S.      ienases: Opeati  costs (maiy chemicals) and eais andy
spare parts) are assumel to increase In proportion to the quantity of water supplied taking into
account the impact of the devaluadon of the leone and domestic inflation on these enes.
Administration expenses (the domestic element) has been increased by 200% to reflect the
recen increase In salaries and wages and the Imported element by the depreciation of the
leone; the domestic component of operating and repairs and maintenance expenses are
assumed to increase by 15% annually between 1993 and 1995 and thereafter to increase by
25%. aually. The weighted percente averages of domestic versus the imported expense
components are given below:
(a)    Operatig Expes: 55% imported and 45% domestic;
(b)    Adm        : 30% imported and 70% domestic; and
(c)    Repairs and Maintance: 70% imported and 30% domestic.
6.    UncollleE:These are projected as a percentage of revenues;1S% in 1993; 12%
in 1994 and 10% thereafter.
7.    iOriadon  Depreciation has been caculated on a straight-line basis at an average
amnual rate of about 4%. This rate reflects the cut  weighted average depreciation rate.
s.    I=m uIa: A detaied tax computation is provided under Annex 5-8.
9.    Inerest on bhrrowings: I has been provided for all the borrowings.
C.   ALNC SHEET AND FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
10.   C;it EMAditures: GVWCs future investment progrm  stmated at $21 million
(with $7 million In duties and taxes) for treatment works rehabilitltion and extension
disbuton, will be financed through internaily generated cash and fure loans, it is assumed
ta OVWC wUI finance approxImately 50% of the net of tax project costs over a period of 4
years, from 1994 to 1997.The balance mainly in foreign currency will be fianced from
fuure borrowings.
11.                Revaluation of fixed assets has been agreed by the Company to be
undertaken in 1993/94. Since most of the fixed assets were financed through foreign loans the
revaluation basis used is the depreciation of the leone by a percentage of 1700% which
represen  the depreciation of the leone between 1986(date of last revaluation) and 1994 (when
the next revaluation is anticipated). This basis is in line with general accepted accunt
practe and conforms with the local adit regulations.



-125-
Annxex 54
Page 3 of 6
12.   ImI        : These have been capitalized In the fixed assets and long term loans
and will be amortized over the same duration as the loans.
13.    otwings;a The proposed project will be funded by an IDA credit of approximately
$6.3 million at 7.73% interest rate which will be on lent to GVWC over a duration of 20
years with 5 years grace period.
14.   GVWC has not been able to service its debt obligations due to the depreciation of the
Leone and the relatively low internally-generated cash. As a result, GOSL negotiated
successfully on behalf of GVWC to reschedule the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) debentre loan with a current outstanding balance of Le 2.1 billion (£2.6 million) to
september 1995, when debt service will commence to repay the loan fully over 10 years. The
Government also agreed to convert the Le 1.2 billion debt forgiven by Csisse Centrale into
equity. In retrn, GVWC will service: (a) with effect from July 1, 1993 for a duration of 2
years, the remaining ADB loan balance of US$92,727.27; and (b) for a duration of 5 years at
3.4% interest, the total of Le 301 million net due to GOSL for Le 108 million net paid to
ADB by GOSL (Le 748 million paid to ADB less Le 640 million paid into the Public Debt
(External) Sinking Fund Account by GVWC) and the total arrears of Le 193 million up to
June 30, 1993 for the Caisse Centrale loan (Le 6 million) and Le 187 million due to the
Islamic Development Bank (see page 6 of this Annex for details).
15. Wordin Coital
(a) kJvntoris - Inventories have been assumed to be at levels equal to 15% of
total operating costs.
(b)    Cash and Bank Balances - lTis represents the cumulative cash generated
during the operations of the entity.
(c)    Accounts Receivables - Ihe projected analysis is given below:
Year                             93    94    95    96    97    98    99
% of receivables to revenues     50    40    25    16    16    16    16
In days                          183   146   90    60    60    60    60
Before November 1 1994, from when universal metering becomes effective, it is
difficult for the Company to have effective debt collection measures hence the higher
receivable days, however, metering offers the necessary debt collection measures to reduce
the receivable situation from the 219 receivable days in 1992 to 60 by 1996.
(d)    Accounts Pavyb  - This represents loan in_rest and 15% of total operating
costs.



8IERRA LBOU3
IUNIT tooB1 UlAg     !tDU3B R93AnBKLK  EIO  PRO1TE!
G13  VALL3M W&TY  CU?AIN
IXCONX TAX COII?oWh"O3
1993      1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000
INCOKx BEFORE TAX                          431435    195530    280049    637477  1072230   1539443   1749967  1918106
TAX LOSSES B/FMD                                              -574691  -2440124  -886942  -431454  -299220    40777
ADD DEUCIATION                              29779   485113    722831    940464   983494   1023494   1083494  1163494
LSS CIAPITAL ALLOWZANES                    150640  1255334   4017695  4905007  3374119  3293611   3091904  2303312
TAXADL2 ZUCOKZ( LO88)                      310574  -574691  -2440124  -886942  -431454  -299220          40777   75210
TAX (47.5)                                 147523          0         0         0         0         0         0   360150



8non Leon
-      rsTU0 WR   -OMMfu     PROBC!
nI N a  AU     aRCI%
0Mm YaLtA? 33803m
sow aonus  uav
tLu   0001
1993        1994         1993         1996         1997         1998         199         20C0
ala&aSct a/M                                     1720142      1697423      3791079      0711454    13306246    13952693    14059769    14195134
LO0W TORO                                         231817      1854534      1159064       *95450       21617             0
wUMVR3 LO3                                                               3507295      3507295      27490              0           0            0
SWitS 0C0NVR*38     CA?683 CuiMNARZ              1210403
80  7080                                          741S76      3351s94      0s374S7    129941"9    13092972    13292693    1405"69    14195134
LCfS On  SCRAau                                   90339S       246654       322929       401X71       561156       42995       634327       4400
1724971     3618419      6000387    13595770    14454120    14579488    14694094    14043340
Dam S031S                                          27540       148933       20904        501435       Sll9         496962      628090       645872
R#SR
TO 33I183S 0338                                  1697431      3791079      6711454    1MM84244    1392491    14039769    14105134    14214450
am WMm am cmWAN
(LEM 0 090
StSR                                                1992         1993         1994         19ff         199          1997        1996         1999         2000
CO0S 33O0Og3 FWD                                               493411       744478    12127821    187"79    235 1405    24s7242    25S57342    27067342
AD0ISXOU8-XBRD                                                 251067      200as34      1*255334     T53200       21067
ADOIUOaO-sWCgitutre iavetinMto)                                                         4687425     4647625       024670      tOO1 O00     3S00000      2500000
R3VAff M!IOE                                                               9374009
TOtAL                                                          744478    12127821    16070779    23521605    24587342    2557342    27067342    2957342
30OUGM? M3D                                                    225575       255354       740447     1446329      2403762      327256       4410750      5494245                    O
cBam    FOR Tim Y37R                                            29779       46511)       722031      940464       n3494       1023494      1003494      1103496                     ED *
tOt"L                                                          255354       740467     1463296      2403762      3372546    4410750        5494243      667 77X
0 r
par D0M  VAMA                                                  469124    11307354    16407461    21107642    212000964    21174592    21S39090    2290960                          t%, 00



- -
18*                                   1993         19t4         1m          199          1997        1t99         is          20
33!      on_ 0   a0n061.            301000       30100n       23056       16252             l        33310
minzAzL                                   O       600 200       020        aOM0         020          33310
301l83=                                  0        10234         Mt6)        5526         3291        l133
DM33  0RVC3                               0       70434         0039       65724        63491        34442
6a2183C  CAR010 fVW                 301000       23056        1652?        94801        $3310            0
an 106Ie2 39130                      5S10"        23460
1SINmAL                              23460        23460
161338                                4000         1677
DM  OsYlI                            27"4So       25337
MAIAN   Chun=5 100                   23460            0
eJSmu  Ce3hSRM    LGIM  591*30                  116542        93962       60394        4301?        17732
1,0aZwaAL                                         23"7         2370         237         2370         3666
232w338f                                           7113         5632        4104         250t         1064
mm0  sme0                                         30021        29340        27012       24209        17732
38039108  OWO                                     17761         OS70         4104        2S01         1064
LMAU    Cht 0 I 1D                                07721        64522        40503       10728           -0
1no LamI bMAR                                     93035        769          57644       3791         17407
1U09eAi.                                          20910 20                  20900       2090          7213
twIZ                                               1342         1136          062         S49          194
DM  stCm                                          22342        22116        21042       21529        17407
14075        5s55         3459        2            1044
NALA1 CU0D1  1                                    71493        54302        35          1"422           -0
Dgees 0Q tv
ZNI33!                                4000        20505        14"7         10492        6421         239            0            0                                                 'a
9323C2?AL                             23460      120348       1048"        1046        104806        67191           0            0                                                 0 
1 t1 cmT 633                          27540      140913       119495       S13o        111305        6956t           0            0                                                  tD X
L"
0 I
1.33!£1         OM GSTO O0L TO OR 15R3IT3 o0r OVER S YWIS Al 3.4%  7238T 3A!ts ANOINt L1M  "3  to 100 Mt1K10 3! ION 20 0061.    An D3    33310                                     ' 0
913  S8B Le 193 KILLION rOs £53905  UP TO JUNE 31 1993 I.. 1W03 Lo 187 KILI&0N US Lo 6 111.1ON TO 09185  6    1W.5
53 AMO SACs or 1   225  1611.1.108 o0  RNCEIVAlEMS DUE TO MWCINICH 18 CR 1  TO  AU  OF G  <;WC5 
2.AD1S LOA   2 S0 BE PAID UP IN StILLBY 87ON  IN 2 INS2ALLORPIS O1 Le 27.5 NILSON AM to 25 MILLION IV 1993 ASS 1994 RYPCIVI.
.*cu5ss  CWALE  AUN,  3WC TO SERVICE TIlE RDAININOG  W   9ALANC3(S 13  R8W11G LIM                  1994 70 1990) AS PM us  NR  SL LOW  AdMsM.
4.186 LGAN. OC SO SERVICE TRt RNVSAIUIgo"AS VALANCE( TEAM 3Ol8611              L1PS MK 1994 20 19986  AS 13 TII ORI139L 1ta.  &      US.



-129-
Page I of 17
ItEUBLJ  OF SIEIRRA       S
ECONOMI EGVALUATION
1.    Only those project components with quantifiable benefits have been evaluated. They are:
(a) community upgrading for Brookfields, Congo Market, Ginger Hall, Kroo TownKoo Bay,
Susan's Bay and Mabella areas; (b) muarket upgrading for Bombay Street, Kroo Town Road,
Guard Street, Garrison Street, Kennedy Street and Smythe Street markets; (c) water leakage
detection for GVWC; and (d) urban roads and traffic management component. Among ePected
benefihs, only the qunifiable benefits have been measured. Cost streams include civil works,
equipment and machines, eneern design, physical contingencies and provision for operation
and maintenace costs. Financial costs and benefits are expressed in US dollars at March 1993
prices, and economic costs and benefits are eressed in international border prices (n US
dollars) at March 1993 prices, and adjusted by the general conversion factor for Sierra Leone,
0.93. (he official exchange rate in March 1993 is Le C50 per US dollar and the exchange rate is
being completely floated.) A brief description for economic evaluation of each component is
presented below.
2.    Communi upgding                The total financial base cost for upgrading the six
communities and for solid waste management component is estimated at US$5.9 million and the
eonomic base cost is estimated at US4.2 million. With an additional 10% physical
contngencies, the total economic cost is US$4.6 mfllion (Fable   1). Incremental operation and
maitenance costs are asmed to be 3% of capital investment cost.
3.    Benefits have been quantified in tem  of property value increases. Based on a sample
survey in the six target communities and their comparable areas with proper infrastructure
services, the property value would increase by 25% with the project from Le 19 billion to Le 24
billion or by US$7.9 million (Fable -1). This benefit will be realized right after completing
the upgrading in 1997. Salvage value after 15 years is estimateu at US$ 0.9 million. Based on
these, the ERR would be 21% (Fable   1). Sensitivity analyses indicate that with 10%
reduction in property values in target and comparable areas, the ERR would be reduced to 14%;
with 10% increase in capital investment costs, the ERR would be reduced to 16%; with 10%
increase in operation and maintenanco costs, the ERR would be 20%; and with all of these three
incidence, the ERR would be reduced to 7%.
4.    Mje ugding MMn=n. Economic capital cost for the six markets is US$2.2
million (Fable MEA). Benefits have been quantified based on increases in rental values of the
makets with the project, which is represented by total market charges to be collected by FCC
from traders/vendors minus total market charges collectable at present. Present rental rates
charged by FCC on traders/vendors in the markets are low: Le 45/day/stall or table for edible
goods vendors and Le 80/day/stall or table for non-edible goods vendors. Total number of
stlls/tables is 3,813 by FCC's esdmaes and is 5,146 by actual counting by consultants, which is



-130-
An= 6-1
Page 2 of 17
35% more than that estimated by FCC. Moreover, there are almost the same number of
stoolslbowls/pans/baskets/mats which will actually beneflt from the project but are assumed to be
non-ihargeable. The total potential revenue from market charges was estimated based on the
consultants' number, and amounts to Le 243,993/day/six-markets. In addition, there are revenues
from toilet user charges and abattoir user charges: Le 76,260/daylsix- markets and Le
5,882Jday/six-markets respectively. The potential revenue at the current market rental rates is
thus estimated at Le 326,135/daylsix-markets (Table MR-D).
5.    According to private real estate agents, it is likely that the rental value of the markets
increases by 200% with the project. This increase is affordable even for traders with low daily
sales (Le 3,000/day/stall), i.e., they will pay about 18% of their protlt for the increased rents.
Assuming 200% increases In rental values and In tolilet/abattoir charges, the financial benefit will
be US$0.402 million/year and the economic beneflt be US$0.374 million/year. Discounting them
for 20 years yields an ERR of 13% (Table ME-D). Sensitivity analyses show that with the rate
Increase by 100% Instead of by 200%, the ERR will be reduced to 4%; with 10% increase in
capital Investment cost, the ERR would lower to 12%; with 10% increase in operation and
maintenance cost, ERR would lower to 13%, i.e., almost no effects; and with all of the three
incidence, that ERR would be reduced to 3%.
6.    Leakage detection ompnent. Benefits have been quantified by net savings of water
losses arising from implementing the leakage detection component which includes repair after the
detection and valued at an average tariff rate of Le 475 per thousand IG which will be effective in
1994 when the initial benefit of the component will begin to accrue. The adjusted financial rate
of return, where costs and benefits were adjusted for tax and duties and the general conversion
factor, is estimated at 28% (Table WiN1). Sensitivity analyses Indicate that with a 10% increase
In costs, the ERR would be 25%; and with a 10% reduction In the volume of water saved, the
rate of return would be 24%.
7.    Urban roads and traffic manaae  compnent. The total economic cost of capital
investment is US$ 5.9 million (Table _1, ). Benefit streams have been measured in Vehicle
Operation Cost (VOC) savings plus time cost savings by passengers (Table I-1j. The VOC
savings arise from increased speed and better surface condition. Without the project, the average
speed of traffic on all project roads will decline from 33 kph in year 1993 to 23 kph in 2011, and
the average surface condition declines from Fair in 1993 to Poor in 2011. With the project, the
speed will be maintained at 39 kph until 2003 and then be reduced to 35 kph in 201 1, and the
surface condition will be kept at Good for all the life period (Table REJ), Based on traffic
counts on project roads, the average daily traffic (ADT) on a weekday is estimated at 5,338/day
In 1993 and traffic engineers estimated the ADT at 6,475/day In 1997 which is an opening year
with the project. The annual average daily traffic is estimated at 5,848 in 1997 and it is assumed
that the traffic grows at 4%Iyear (Table R£j-J. There are savings in road maintenance costs with
the project but they are not counted as benefits.
8.    Based on above estimates and assumptions, the ERR is high at 47% as can be expected
for urban road rehabilitation and traffic management works in a congested city (Table RE-F).
Without the benefit of passenger time savings, ERR would be 45% since the passenger time
values were assumed to be low. With extremely negative assumption of no traffic growth and no
surface decay, ERR would stOlM be at 38%. With 20% increase in capital investment costs, ERR
is 42%. With all of the three negative incidence, the ERR would be reduced to 32%.



-131-
Page 3 of 17
9.      act of & auible ?mic ImD emoni DeIM. Aalyses have beeo  made of the
impact of possible impl ain ddays on thec ombied ERR of 34% of tho pmposed project.
hese ainalyses indicato that this combined ERR would rdue to 28% if project impl -ion is
delyd by ow yea. It would frter reduce to 24% and 21% if project  pleetato nis
ddayed by two ad  eO yes, respcvely.



-132-                                   Annex 6-1
Page 4 of 17
w.nA cc-i  con rag cwoamu            u,aanu
(Units Us$ million at 1993 constant prices)
Financlal capital Cost (ase)             Total        Total
cooiioi      vaonomica
total  Local+Duty/tAx       foreign     Capital      Capital
Cost         Coat
Duty/Tax      ocal                 ts)          (w/ 10
(omtntI y)
(Wool   (g8ig)    ugsSm)    'us8mi ,ni                 (U,m8D
SiX COMWUNT UP=RADIUS total         5.558   1.6576      1.142     2.759        3.820        4.202
Land acquisition                  0.043   0.0004      0.043     0.000
site Prearation                   0.184   0.0554      0.086     0.043
Internel Roads                    3.495   1.0506      0.468     1.956
Stow Drfinage                     0.560    0.1707     0.117     0.280
water Supply                      0.134   0.0403      0.019     0.075
Sanitation                        0.329   0.0909      0.092     0.1J3
Solid Waste Collection             0.54    0.1623     0.112     0.266
Xag.Dwign6supervision(5%)         0.265   0.0709      0.106     0.000
SOLMD W3SAU IANAGUZif   total       0.373   0.0000      0.000     0.373        0.373        0.410
TWo Collection Vehicles           0.198   0.0000      0.000     0.198
50 Containers                     0.125   0.0000      0.000    0.125
two Vehiale  I Equipment           0.05   0.0000    0.000    0.050
GRAND TOTAL                         S.931    1.6576    1.1424    3.1310       4.1934       4.6128
1/       official exchange rate Is 150 - US$1* whLoh Is close to the parallel rate.
The standard acnversion factor Including slight disparity between the
offioial ochange rate and the parallel rate (3 or 4 percentage points) is
0.93. ThLi covers (a) 3 permanent acomunity upgrading for Ercokfields, Congo
Market and Ginger Hball Camunities, (b) 3 temporry community upgrading for
lroo Day/Iroo Town# Mabella and susan's  ay Communities, nd (c) solid waste
management maoure which is mainly for the si  communities and six markets
to be upgrded.



-133-                           Annex 6-1
Page 5 of 17
FREYOWN IZNPRAStRUC!WUX RlUABILITATION PROJZCT
TABLE CB-1 BEIDFXTS OF CONUMMXEY UPGRADING
(Units US$ million at 1993 constant prices)
Total Financial        Increm'l   Number Economic
Property Value        Economic         of  Benefit
Benefit    Rooms per Room
Target     Comparable
Community   Comanity
(Le billion)  (Le billion)     (US$m)      (No)  (USS/Rm)
Brookfields Comunmity                5.622          6.665      1.764     3,595    490.6
Congo Market Community               7.518          8.705      2.008     4,025    498.9
Ginger Hall Community                0.870         2.150       2.165    2,392    905.0
-roo Bay/Krootown Community          1.925          2.333      0.690     2,222    310.5
Mabella Community                    1.422          1.755      0.563     1,925    292.6
Susan's Bay Comminity                1.766         2.196       0.727     2,555    284.5
TOTAL                     19.123        23.804       7.917    16,714    473.7
100.0%        124.5%



SRARRA laU
IPREENYY  XIRPU^SrRtUCnRB ANNWBItIASION PROJEC
TABLE CE-1 CcoSQEJTY UPGRDINGD. UcoOxNIC ANALYSIs
(units US$ million at 1993 constant prices)
Yr  Calendar Economie  Inmrsm *  Inrem'1 Eeonomic    Net              Sensitivityl   Sensitivity2   Sensitivity3    Sensitivity4
No    Year      Capital  Econcmic Benm ic  Salvage  Eeoncmic  10% Reduction   10% Increase   108 Increase                All of Four
Cost       O&M     Benefit   Value    Benefit   in Property         in Capital        in 00K          Incidence
(wv  10%    Cost                                        Value            Cost            Cost
Cont'ney)
(JUSSm     (Uf§m)    (USS)    (USSm)    tUSSm)           tUSfm)           (US$m)         tUS$m)            (uSmM)
1    1993         0.000                                     0.000           0.000           0.000           0.000             0.000
2    1994         1.845                                    (1.845)         (1.845)         (2.030)         (1.845)           (2.030)
3    1995         2.076                                    (2.076)         (2.076)         (2.283)         (2.076)           (2.283)
4    1996         0.692     0.021                          (0.713)         (0.713)         (0.782)         (0.715)           (0.784)
5    1997         0.000     0.138      7.917                7.778           6.987           7.778           7.764             6.973
6    1998                   0.138                          (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.152)           (0.152)
7    1999                   0.138                          (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.152)           (0.152)
8    2000                   0.138                          (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.152)           (0.152)
9    2001                   0.138                          (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.152)           (0.152)
10    2002                   0.138                          (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138)         (O.1S2)           (0.152)  P,
11    2003                    0.138                         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.152)           (0.152)
12    2004                    0.138                         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.152)           (0.152)
13    2005                    0.138                         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.152)           (0.152)
14    2006                    0.138                         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.152)           (0.152)
1S    2007                   0.138                          (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.152)           (0.152)
16    2008                   0.138                          (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138-         (0.152)           (0.152)
17    2009                   0.138                          (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.152)           (0.152)
18    2010                   0.13B                          (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.152)           (0.152)
19    2011                   0.138                          (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.138)         (0.152)           (0.152)
20    2012                   0.138                0.926      0.788           0.788           0.881           0.774             0.867
4.613                          IRR       21.3%           14.2%           15.7%            20.7%             7.2%
1/ O U.cial exchange rate is L550-US$1, vhich is close to the                      3/ Salvation value is estimated to be a half
parallel rate.  The standard conversion factor including                          of capital investment cost since the life
slight disparity between the official exchange rate and                           is assumed to be 30 years. But there also   r 
the parallel rate (3 or 4 percentage points) is 0.93.                            vill be Operations and Maintenance costs    b
This covers (a) 3 permanent community upgrading for Brookfields,                  to maintain the investments which is
Congo Market, and Ginger Hall Comounities, (b) 3 temporary                        US$0.138 million/yr. It is assumed that          X
conmunity upgrading for Xroo Bay/Xroo Town, Nabella, and                          the discounted value of the CH costs over        O
Susan's Say Communities, and (o) solid waste management measures                  15 years is about US$1.38 million.
which is mainly for the six comunities and six markets to be                  4/ Property values for both target areas and
upgraded.                                                                         comparable areas are assumed to be reduced  -
2/ Assu ed to be 3% of the capital investment oost.                                  by 10% .



ox="
YIR MR-I  uiin OV BUM& MID COaUMVESUB   !S
(Units oace at  rch 1993 Prices)
Potential  Potential Swvice    Total
Opatoro 7/ Stells,         Radr of Stallos (tfom Pc)                   ental   voer Fe   Carge   Potential
Slabs and      for        for     TOt  9/      tal    DAveUt        tan       frm      DAvenu
Tables 7/    Uibl.   Man-edible               Dental   snood an   Toilets  Abettoir  per Dat
.@od. 2/   Goods 3/             _weue 4/  Table 2        S/        6/
(Table 1)  (abl 2)                                                  w/
LI  1,1  10    ~    ti f (Ldawi   11*dat /W    (la  !)  h/da
Umabar  Stf ut                         a9s         315        4S0           3       453                           9,060
Iree  imm  d Nkt                       145         296        60          20        620                          12,400
zkGeul>gsn St oft a AbattoLs         1,426       2,332      1,400         30      1,430                          28,600    S,682
Soriseon St Hkt                        356         754        250         150       400                           8,000
mun¢ady St 6 fLoy id okt               979         S0S        350         30        380                           7,600
8 yth 8t kIt                           409         644        S00         30        S30                          10,600
TO?)L                      4,174      5,146       3,550        263     3,613   160,790    243,993    76,260    5,862   326,135
1/ uh stavndard coversion  factor Is etstiated at 0.93.                      6/ This potential was a result of proportionalt inrease Of the    tt
21 5he current rent to PMC (called 'mmrbot due) is to 45/day/stall.             PCC# estimates of potentlal revennue basd on the nuaber of   "'
3/ Tbo current rent to FM is 1* 60/day/stall.                                   selling "pace estimated In (Tabl 2) in thi Table.
4J etual colleetios pFer day aure Le 153,975 on February 25. 1993               Actual collations per day wrLe l* S3,975 en Febrvnry 25, 199
shcid  is 65% of the potential, and La 150,860 on Fsbruary 25                hisch is 63% of the potential, and 1e 150,860 an February 25
which is 63% -a the potential.                                               which is 62% of the potential.
S/ The curnx3t fee to the Mnistry of Bealth is ?A 10/use.                    9J The nws^ra of stalls, i.e., selling spacme, captured by FCC,
6/ in addition to stall rents and toilet fees, ther Is sorwice                 whicbh is 3,613 is maller than actual mnmer of selling space
fees for Abattoir. the actual revenue on February 26, 1993                   surveyed by the consultants (Table 2), which l 5,146.
ws Le S,000, wbLch was ammiund to be 85% of the potntial
revenue.
7/ sources Goneg, VThP, Market opgrading omtpoet, Proliminwyr
Design Deport, Januay 1993. St contains two table seach
shodwng namber of operaters and numbers of stalls/slabs/
tables. Since cm slab ae¢cmodates at least sisx sellng
spaoes, it was ultiplied by six to arrive at nurber ot selling
spaces subject to iudket rent collection. Acoording to
Table 2, total nuer ot selling spaces is S,146. In addition to
thLi  hargeable qpasms, ther are aloet se number ot stools/
bvls/psns/bashets/mto which are asmused to be non-ctargeable.
|K
xl



aIU,on
nm_ #mx9
fAL  33-1   e xcoua    Ia"TatS of 333K   IV-4RM   1/
(Mtt  U  millio  at 193 contat prices)
Yr Calender      conomic      e tol  Tinancial Eonomic           not    SeDtitityl    Sniti it2    ssitivity3    SaitivitY4
no     Year      Capital      eonondo    beefit   _enefit  onoic                Rato        (Capital       (062 cost       (With A1L
Inest-nt          Ot        (Rate            Benefit        In"case       Coat Vp by      nceas by              hree
Coat        Cost    ncroeae                            by 100t             10%)            10%)      Incidec)
W/  hy.          2/   by 200%)
Contingency                      31
{Wtsa)      (MSSmI     (USLat   (USII       V    a) (PEs  tVUsSn          ,Vm             4WB
1     1993        0.109                                      (0.109)         (0.109)         (0.120)         (0.109)         (0.120)
2     1994        1.752                                      (1.752)         (1.752)         (1.927)         (1.752)         (1.927)
3     1995        0.328                                      (0.329)         (0.328)         (0.361)         (0.328)         (0.361)
4     1996        0.000        0.022       0.402    0.374    0.3S2            0.16S           0.352           0.350           0.163
S     1997        0.000        0.022       0.402    0.374    0.352            0.165           0.3S2           0.350           0.163
6     1998                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.352            0.165           0.352           0.3S0           0.163
7     1999                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0C352            0.165           0.3S2           0.350          0.163
8     2000                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.3S2            0.165           0.352           0.350          0.163
9     2001                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.352            0.165           0.352           0.350           0.163
t0     2002                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.352            0.165           0.352           0.350           0.163
11     2003                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.352            0.16S           0.352           0.3S0           0.163
12     2004                     0.022       0.402    0.374     0.C52           0.165           0.352           0. ,0          0.163
13     2005                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.3S2            0.16S           0.352           0.350          0.163                            t
14     2006                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.3S2            0.16S           0.352           0.350          0.163                           __
15     2007                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.3s2            0.16S           0.352           0.350           0.163                          W
16     2008                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.352            0.165           0.352           0.350           0.163
17     2009                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.352            0.165           0.352           0.350           0.163
18     2010                     0.022       0.402    b.374    0.3S2            0.165           0.352           0.350          0.163
19     2011                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.3C2            0.16S           0.3M2           0.350          0.163
20     2012                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.352            0.16S           0.352           0.350          0.163
21     2013                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.3S2            0.165           0.352           0.350           0.163
22     2014                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.352            0.165           0.352           0.350          0.163
23     201S                     0.022       0.402    0.374    0.352            0.16S           0.3S2           0.350          0.163
$!o0   or IRR       2.190                             1lR       1 l3.1t          3.90           11.84          13.1%            2.8
I/ Official eachag  rate is LSSOMIS10 which is clos  to the               It i assmed that the proper rental rates Zt4t  the coletion
parallel rate. 2he standard coawersionl factor inclUding               of the Project bo tbose of three time increase based an
slight disparity bet1me the official exchange rate *ad                 comsrvativa principle. seem, the increvAntal beneits with
thb parallel rate (3 or A pernontge points) is 0.93.                   the Project are La 90 and 160/day/stall.
This cere sis mrts upgrading.                                          According to a conultants' owety, traderu/venders amr ready
2/ 1 of the capital cot.                                                 to pay higher rntal rates if basic facilities arm iproved.
3/ At the current rental rat e which are set at low level1#               tero is a shortage of mrket spaces and domd for the sellg
if rent frat  all otalle/slaba/t4bles are collected, tbae              spaces are high.
the sit mrkets hav  tbh  rntal value of Lo 326.135/day.                Bale por day  er stll rang frn th   nizmu  of Le 3.000
Wumber of tradtre rs sunday reduces to about half of that of           (vegetable sellers  to the  imn of L  50,000 mast sellore).                     c
of a wask day.                                                         Average sales sem to be about lA 6,000 to 7#000/day/stall.                         t
In light of market raten in sorrounding areas with proper              Asumig proflt margi  at 25, profit per stall rango frm                         Io X
infrastructure servic, the prx^est rental rates for the mats           to 7SO to 10,000/day. for a trader wdth the minm sales (a 
(Lo 45/day/stall for ediblo goods traders and     800/day/tall         vegetal seller) the va_ renta rates mill he 1% ogf hs profit,                       t
for ao-edible good traderl can he raised by facoro of three            which is mat likly to be affotdable to the trader.
or tour, i.e.,    135 and 240 or to 180 and 320 respectively.



-137-                          Annex 6-1
Page 9 of 17
SIERRA LEONE
FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE WE-1  LUEAAGE DETECTION PROGRAM
Adjusted Financial Rate of Return
(Unit: Leone million at March 1993 prices)
LEAKAGE
NE              DETECTION                NET CASH
YEAR          SAVINGS             EXPENSES                    FLOW
1               0.0              116.8                     (116.8)
2            218.5               934.8                     (716.3)
3             305.8              584.2                     (278.4)
4            435.8               350.5                       85.3
5            457.6               116.8                      340.8
6            480.5                                          480.5
7            504.5                                          504.5
8            529.7                                          529.7
9            529.7                                          529.7
10             529.7                                         529.7
11             529.0                                         529.0
12            529.0                                          529.0
13             529.0                                         529.0
14             529.0                                         529.0
15             529.0                                         529.0
16             529.0                                         529.0
17             529.0                                         529.0
18             529.0                                         529.0
19             529.0                                         529.0
20             529.0                                         529.0
IRR              27.7%
NOTES:
1/ The exchange rate is Le 550/US$. The standard conversion
factor is 0.93 to adjust the foreign cost of the component.



-138-                                   Annex 6-1
Page 10 of 17
8IERRA LEONE
FREBSOpN _NMRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJ.ECT
TABLE RC-1  COSTS FOR URBAN ROADS AND DRAINAGE  1/
(Units US$ million at 1993 constant prices)
Financial Capital Cost (Base)             Total    Total
-------- -                    -------  Economic Economic
Total  Local+Duty/Tax       Foreign  Capital  Capital
-------- ------ -        Cost      Cost
Duty/Tax     Local              (Bass)  (vi 10%
Cont'ncy)
(US$M)    (Us$m)   Cus$m) (USSm)    (US$m)    (US$m)
URBAN ROADS AND DRAINAGE
Brookfields Area                  3.614    1.086      0.506      2.022
Congo Mkt Area                    1.103     0.332     0.154      0.617
Ginger Hall Area                  1.710     0.514     0.239      0.957
Kroo 8ay/Kroo Town Area           0.534    0.161      0.074     0.300
Nabella Area                      0.371    0.221      0.030     0.120
Susan's Bay Area                  0.337    0.200      0.028     0.109
Zng.Design&Supervision(5%)        0.383     0.126     0.257     0.000
GRAND TOTAL                         0.052    2.640       1.287    4.125      5.322    5.855
NOTESS
1/ Official exchange rate is L550US$1, which is close to the
parallel rate. The standard conversion factor including
slight disparity between the official exchange rate and
the parallel rate (3 or 4 percentage points) is 0.93.
This covers selected roads and drainage for six areas in Freetown.



taDL  R-I  .. yOea NU>    OAD$  1/
(raiti tlS  000 ot 1993 prices at LoSSO per ga$)
Tr Caled   V/C Ratio 2/         Traffic Spoed         Surface Uconumie      aAA      nuacl   Project  Zccac              Not
o  Ter                        _                      conition       Vser   w/ all zecoomic  Roafcanodliati as        tmcmon
W/o Prj   W/ Proj w/o Proj  W/ Proj    w/Proj  Saving. Projects   nd.Vear             coat     Cost        Benfit
(Paved      per        S/      cost        w/    Saved
Zqaiva2et)   Vab-km              Savigs       Phy.        7)
3/       4/                       coating
(UScent/                           6/
_Veh/ftY    1krhM    tk1                     Ukm-            st* 0 MA  $000 I  o-*   tS'00     (i*000
193      1.04                   33                  Pair                                       0                      0
1994                            31                                                          B7B       not           (979)
1995                            32                                                         2.342 accounted       (2,3421
1996                            31                                                        2,049                   (2,049)
1  1997      1.13       0.79        31        39                     7    s,s49                 Bus                    (Sss)
2  1990                             30                               9    6,082     3,281                             3,201
3  199"                             30                              11    6.325    4.221                              4,221
4  2000                             29                              14    6,s7s    S,231                              5,231
S  2001                             29                              16    6.841     6,316                             6,316
6  2002                             28                             1i     711S    7,478                              7,478
7  2003                 1.01        27        39   rair/Poor        20    7,399    6,724                              9,724
8  2004                             27                              21    7,695    9,369                              9,369
S  200s                             26                              21    8,003    10,OSS                            10,053
10  2006                             26                              22    8,323   10,776                             10,776
11  2007                             2S                              23    8,6s6    11,S41                            11,541
12  2000                             24                              21    9,002   12,150                             12,350
13  2009                             24                              24    9,362    13,206                            13,206
14  2010                             23                              2s    9,737    14,110                            14,110
15  2011                             23        3s        PooC        2S   10,126   1S,06S                             15,065
Total or  2RE                                                                    131.722    s,ess       r              440
I/ All 31 urban roads were cubincd together to be a averago road
with, total length of 16.11 km, current trat ic level (in 1991)
of 5,336 ADT, traffic level with project in 1997 of 6,475,
and avrage traffti growth rats of 40tyr.
The standard convuerlon factor is estimated at 0.93.
2/ The capacity without project at present is estimted at
5,157 vebicle/day for the coraid road. Ph. caeacity with
projct starting In 1997 is estimated at 7,359 vehicle/day.
3/ on average, the orface conditio  declines frm Fair to
tair/Poor by 7th year ad to Poor by l5th year witbout tho
Project. With Project, it remains to be good through out.
4/ Sources Table 3-l1 S_nuary of Xcuic Road vr costs with                                                                                        I >
Congestio, Paved Roads, prepared by the mission.                                                                                              b 
5/ It is 1etimted that the traffic declines by 250 on Saturday                                                                                  °o° :
and on Buay. It Is assumd that 10 days/yr are totally                                              D X
trafticles days to accout tor national holidays and other
smal traffic days. Average traffic growth rate is assumed
to be 4*/yr.
7/ Ther  is maintenance cost saved but it is not acounted for.                                                                                  t1 
a-



S IEURR LIOUnX
FURETOWN IUFRasYRUC!URB REHABILXTATION PROJnCT
TABLE RE-2 -E-SMn3VXT! ANALYSIS It WITHOUT DEnEFITS OF PASSENGER TIME savjN:s 1,
(Unittus$'000 at 1993 prices at LeSSO per us$)
Yr Calend   V/C Ratio 2/         TraffLc speed          Surface Economic        AADT   Annual  Project  Economic  sensitivityl
No  Year              -------       -        --condition               User   w/ all Economic Economic¢Mintce   Net Economic
w/o Proj    v/ Proj v/o Proj  wl Proj    w/o Proj  Savings Projects  Rd.User             Cost       Coat   Benefit vio
(Paved       per        5/      Coat        v/    saved       Passenger
Equivalent)   Veh-km              Savings       Phy.        7/  Time Savings
3/        4/                       Conting                  Benefit
(UScent/                            61
(VehIDWv     (!phl     (krh                    Vi)               ($1000)  tS0000   ($1000)          tS'0000
1993      1.04                    33                   FaLr                                        0                        0
1994                              33                                                            978        not           (878)
1995                              32                                                          2,342 accounted          (2,342)
1996                              31                                                          2,049                    (2,049)
1  1997       1.13       0.79         31        39                      6     5,848                 58S                     (585)
2  1998                               30                                8     6,082     3,035                              3,035
3  1999                               30                               11     6,325     3,947                              3,947             o
4  2000                               29                               13     6,s57     4,927                              4,927
S  2001                               29                               1S     6,841     5,979                              5,979
6  2002                               28                               17     7,115     7,107                              7,107
7  2003                  1.01         27        39   Fair/Poor         19     7,399     8,316                              8,316
6  2004                               27                               20     7,695     8,937                              8,937
9  2005                               26                               20     8,003     9,596                              9,596
10  2006                               26                               21     8,323    10,292                             10,292
11  2007                               25                               22     8,656    11,029                             11,029
12  2008                               24                               22     9,002    11,809                             11,809
13  2009                               24                               23     9,362    12,633                             12,633
14  2010                               23                               24     9,737    13,504                             13,504
15  2011                               23        35        Poor         24    10,126    14,425                             14,425
Total or IRR                                                                        125,536     5,855       IRR-            45E
NOTESs
4/ sources Table 3-1, Summary of Economic Road User Costs vith
Congestion, Paved Roads, prepared by the mission.r
The maximum passenger time coat is about 2.3% of the total road user                                                                 00
cost at the speed of 21-25 kph and the minimum passenger                                                                               x
time cost Ls about 1.2% of the total road user cost at the speed
of 36-40 kph.  These passenger tLe costs were decucted from the
benelft calculatLon.



SIERRA LEONE
PREBOXtO  INMnRASRUCTURE REHASILXTATION PROJECT
TABJLE RP-3  SEUSXISVX!Y ANAZTXIS 2s ZBRO TRAaFXC GROWTH and NO SURVACE DENCA  I,
(Unitsus$'000 at 1993 prices at LeSSO per us$)
YrCalend   V/C Ratio 2/          Traffic Speed           Surface  Economlc       AADT    Annual  Project  Economic  Sonsitivityl
No  Year              ---- -                 -------    condition       User    v/ all Economic  Economickaint'ce   Net Economic
w/o Proj    v/ Proj  w/o Proj   wt Proj    w/o Proj   Savings  Projects   Rd.User          Cost      Cost   Benefit wvo
(Paved       per        S/      Cost         V/     Saved      Passenger
Equivalent)   Veh-km               Savings       Phy.        7   Time Savings
3/        4/                        Conting                  Benefit
(UScent/                             6/
(Veh/Dv)     (kDh)      _kIh                    Vkbi             ($'000)   ($S000)   ($000)          4$0001
1993      1.04                    33                   Fair                                         0                        0
1994                              33                                                              878       not           (878)
1996                              32                                                            2,342 accounted         (2,342)
1996                              31                                                            2,049                   (2,049)
1  1997       1.13       0.79         31         39                      7     S,848                  585                     (585)
2  1998                               30                                 8     5,848     2,883                               2,883
3  1999                               30                                10     5,848     3,358                               3,358
4  2000                               29                               1i      5,848     3,834                               3,834
S  2001                               29                                13     5,848     4,310                               4,310
6  2002                               28                                14     5,848     4,785                               4,785
7  2003                  0.79         27         39        Fair         15     5,848     5,261                               5,261
8  2004                               27                                1S     5,848     5,304                               5,304
9  2005                               26                                16     5,848     5,347                               5,347
10  2006                               26                                16     5,848     5,390                               5,390
11  2007                               25                                16     5,848     5,433                               5,433
12  2008                               24                                16     5,948     5,476                               5,476
13  2009                               24                                16     5,848     S,519                               5,519
14  2010                               23                                16     5,848     5,562                               S,562
15  2011                               23         35        Pair         16     S,848     5,605                               5,605
Total or IRR                                                                          68,067      5,855      IRR-            38%
NOTESS                                                                                      
4/ Sources Table 3-1  Summary of Economic Road User Costs with                                                                       : 
Congestion, Paved Roads, prepared by the mission.
o 
t14



SIERRA LEONR
PREBTOWN INFRASTLRUCTURE ReHABILITATON PROJECT
TABLE RE-4 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 3t 20% CAPITAL COST INCR8ASB 11
(Unit:us$O000 at 1993 prices at LeSSO per us$)
YrCalend   V/c Ratio 2/          Traffic Speed          surface  Economic       AADT    Annual  Project Econoic  Sensitivity3
N4o  Year                             -  ---------    condition        User   W/ all Economic  Economic Maint' e   Net Economic
w/o Proj    w/ Proj  w/o Proj  vw  Proj   w/o Proj  savings  Projects   Rd.Uoer           Cost      cost    Benefit vJ
(Paved       per        S/      Cost         W/    Saved       20% Cost
Equivalent)    Veh-km             savings       Phy.        7/       Increase
3/        4/                       Conting
(UScent/                            6/
(Veh/Dy)     (kphl      (kph)                  Vkm)              tS'000)   ($S000)   ($'000)        ($*0o00
1993      1.04                    33                   Fair                                        0                        0
1994                              33                                                           1,054       not         (1,054)
1995                              32                                                           2,810 accounted         (2,810)
1996                              31                                                           2,459                   (2,459)
1  1997      1.13        0.79         31        39                      7     5,848                 703                      (703)
2  1998                               30                                9     6,082     3,281                              3,281
3  1999                              30                                11     6,325     4,221                              4,221
4  2000                               29                               14    6,578      5,231                              5,231
5  2001                               29                               16     6,841     6,316                              6,316
6  2002                               28                               18     7,115     7,478                              7,418
7  2003                  1.01         27        39   Fair/Poor         20     7,399     8,724                              8,724
8  2004                               27                               21     7,695     9,369                              9,369
9  2005                               26                               21     8,003    10,053                             10,0S3
10  2006                               26                               22     8,323    10,776                             10,776
11  2007                               25                               23     8,656    11,541                             11,541
12  2008                               24                               23    9,002    12,350                              12,350
13  2009                               24                               24     9,362    13,206                             13,206
14  2010                               23                               25     9,737    14,110                             14,110
15  2011                               23        35        Poor         25    10,126    15,065                             15,065
Total or IRR                                                                        131,722      7,025      IRR-            42%
xI-
ol .
-SQ



SIERRA LeONE
FRREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURN ReHABILZfATION PROJECT
TABLE RE-S SENSITIVITY AANhLYSIS 4* WXTH ALL OF TH8 THREN NEGATIVE INCIDENCE 1/
(Unitsus$'O00 at 1993 prices at LeSSO per us$)
YrCalend   V/C Ratio 2/          Traffic Speed           Surface  Economic       AADT    Annual  Project  Economic  Senlsitivity4
No  Year                                    -------     condition       User    w/ all Economic Economic maintIce    Net Economic
w/o Proj    w/ Proj wvo Proj  vw  Proj    w/o Proj   Savings  Projects  Rd.User            Cost      Cost    Benefit Wv
(Paved       per        5/      Coat         v/    Saved       All Three
Equivalent)    Veh-km              Savings      Phy.         7J      Negative
31        4/                       Conting                 Incldence
(UScent/                             6/
tVeh/Dv)     tkph)      (kph)                   Vkm)             ($'0001  (S000)   ($'0001          1$'°000
1993      1.04                    33                   Fair                                         0                        a
1994                              33                                                            1,054       not         (1,054)
1995                              32                                                            2,810 accounted         (2,810)
1996                              31                                                           2,459                    (2,459)
1  1997       1.13       0.79         31        39                       6     5,848                 703                      (703)
2  1998                               30                                 8     5,848     2,653                               2i653
3  1999                               30                                 9     5,848     3,117                               3,117
4  2000                               29                                10     5,84B     3,582                               3,582
5  2001                               29                                12     5,848     4,047                               4,047
6  2002                               28                                13     5,848     4,512                               4,512
7  2003                  0.79         27         39        Fair         14     5,848     4,976                               4,976
8  2004                               27                                1S     5,848     5,018                               S,018
9  2005                               26                                1S     5,848     5,059                               5,059
10  2006                               26                                1S     S,848     5,100                               5,100
11  2007                               25                                13     5,848     5,141                               5,141
12  2008                               24                                1S     5,848     5,183                               5,183
13  2009                               24                                1S     5,848     5,224                               5,224
14  2010                               23                                15     5,848     5,265                               S,265
1S  2011                               23         35        Fair         1S     5,849     5,307                               5,307
Total or XRR                                                                          64,183      7,02S      IRR-            32%
0: 



-144-                                Annex b-I
Page 16 of 17
SIERRA LJUOU
IRZETOUU IUFRARCTWR  RREAIB LITA!IOl PROJDCY
TAWL 3-1 SUNANT OP rSCOXOMIC ROAD USBR COSTS
XI'S COO_SNXOWN {i.-e. lon-urdnifor Sneod  PAVED ROAD8 I/
(Units US cents/veh-ka at March 1993 prices and at L550 per US$)
Speed           Good           Fair           Poor         Very Poor
Range        Surfaae        Surfaco        Surface           Surface
lkpb        JZRX2.7?      lIRIS.51        {IltI8.51        (EIRI.5)
1-05         116.4          123.5          135.5              144.2
6-10          63.2           91.7           104.0             112.8
11-15          67.4           76.9            88.3              96.6
16-20          62.0           71.5           82.6               90.7
21-25          53.3           61.1           70.1               77.5
26-30          50.9           56.6           66.1               74.7
31-35          44.8           50.3           57.9               63.8
36-40          43.3           48.1           55.3               61.1
41-45          39.6           42.4           47.2               53.4
46-50          38.7           41.3           4S.8               51.7
-3TDCs
I/ This includes passenger tim  costs.
This is for a canposit vehicle with esdating
vehicle mix in Freetown, 1993.



SIERRA LEONR
FR_ET!N nRASTRC!D ,nEEaLmTITO   2O
YASrM C(WI-2  COMBNED ERCO*IC MAU OF REOUF. B SEn CASE AND S rITZIv ES
(Units US$ llion at March 1993 constant prices
and in international border prics)
Yr  Calender  Economic Increa1 T 1creml          Net   smnitivityl   Sensitirity2   SansltivSity3
so      Year   Capital Eclonoic Economic  Ecnmic           Beneflt &      Benef it &     Benefit 
coat      00)   Benef it   Beef it   maintenance    Xaintenance   Maintenane
(Vi Phy.     Cost      plus                   Stream         Stream         Strem
Cont ncy)            salvage                  Celay by       Delay by       Delay by
Value                    1 Year         2 Year         3 Year
LUWSmI   (UsSk)   WusSmx      (U$mN)         WSml           (s$m)         guSyp
1     1993      0.343                         (0.343)        (0.343)        (0.343)        (0.343)
2     1994      6.345               0.397     (5.947)        (6.345)        (6.34S)        (6.345)
3     1995      5.914               0.556     (5.358)       (5.517)         (5.914)       (5.914)
4     1996      3.442    0.043      1.166     (2.319)        (2.886)        (3.045)       (3.442)
5     1997      0.819    0.160      9.122     8.143          0.304          (0.263)        (0.422)
6     1998                0.160     4.S29     4.368          8.962           1.124         0.556
7     1999                0.160     5.512     5.352          4.368          8.962          1.124
8     2000                0.160     6.568     6.408          5.352          4.368          8.962
9     2001                0.160     7.653     7.492          6.408           S.3S2         4.368
10     2002                0.160     8.815     8.655          7.492          6.408          5.352
11     2003                0.160    10.059     9.899          8.6SS          7.492          6.408                               U'
12     2004                0.160    10.705    10.545          9.899          8.65S          7.492
13     2005                0.160    11.389    11.228         10.545          9.899          8.65s
14     2006                0.160    12.112    11.952         11.228          10.545         9.899
1S     2007                0.160    12.877    12.717         11.952          11.228        10.545
16     2008                0.160   13.686    13.526          12.717          11.952        11.228
17     2009                0.160    14.541    14.381         13.526          12.717        11.952
18     2010                0.160    15.445    15.285         14.381          13.526        12.717
19     2011                0.160    16.401    16.240          15.285         14.381        13.526
20     2012                0.160     2.262     2.102         16.240          15.285        14.381
21     2013                0.022     0.374     0.3S2          2.102          16.240        1S.285
22     2014                0.022     0.374     0.352          0.352          2.102         16.240
23     2015                0.022     0.374     0.352          0.352          0.3S2          2.102
TOTL/noR    16.863                IRR-       34.4U          28.4%          24.4%          21.6%
NOTES'
11 Offl¢Lal exchnge rate is L550US$I Ln March 1993, whlh was close                                                          °Qm
to the parallel rate. The standard converion factor including                                                              X
slight disparity beten the offLcial exchange rate and
the pa.alle1 rate (3 or 4 percentage points) was 0.93.
I;h



-146-
Annex 71
PITEOVM E WNRASITlCTtnRE REEHAB}LlATION ^
DOClIMENIS DIN = EROJ=ECTFL
1.    Sierra Leone Roads Authority Act, 1992.
2.    Guma Valley Water Ordinance, 1961.
3.    GVWC - Anmnu Reports, 1988-1992.
4.    Freetown City Council - Excerpt of Council Meeting Held on April 15, 1993.
5.    SLRA - Resolution to Implement the Freetown Infrastucture Rehabilitation Project on
behalf of the Freetown City Council.
6.    Detailed Plan for the Relocation of Affected Persons in Kroo Bay and Bombay Street
Market areas.
7.    FCC's Action Plan for Citizen Partidpation.
8.    Freetown Infastucture Rehabilitation Project - Environmental Impact Assessment Study,
March 1993.



IBRD 24740
SIERRA  LEONE                                                                                                          MAUNiA            |
FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
FREETOWN AND ENVIRONS - PROJECT AREAS
AARKeT TO BE REHAILUTATED                              CCMMUNrrY UPGRADING/SUJM AREAS                                                     Gu       A
MAIN ACCESS RD                                  -      MAIN ROADS
MAIN ROAD OUTSIDE URBAN UPGRADING AREAS                SECONDARY ROADS
CBD STREETS AREA                                       BUItT-UP AREAS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARES                                                     .R
o       5,0D    1.000     10000052 EE1                                                  
~~~~~~~~~~7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~~~~                             ~           1-4
~~~iEm&J. ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    IQ-           ~         0       Z
%  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI 9



|I                                                                                                                                               I         Ill                                      ronS
I-RD 247411
SIERRA  LEONE                                                                       MURRA
S I E R R A  L E O N E       J\2_,f <af,    f;gURRATOW                                         FREETOWN
FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURE
REHABILITATION PROJECT
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
-     MAJOR TRANSMISSION PIPEUNES                                      \ERVOIR                                      RESERVOIR,
*    SERVICE RESERVOIRS
PUMPING STATIONS                                    Cockerill  1                                                                                      TANK
T TERRAIN ABOVE 600. ELEVATION                                0y                                       CRESERVOIR                              kESERVOR 
<   RIVERS                                                                                             GOVEVNOR
-~--~-RAILROADS                                                                                          oG
UBAN AREASERVOIR
--IOENAIlONAL BOINDARIES                                                                                 RESERVOIN
1   Z                 RT-5~~~~~EERVOIR                                                    W   ESROE "I 1-           \
0             i             2             3             49dMKS H2                                                 5                                                                 RE  1 1' 
0            1            2             23           4 KI5OMEI                                                                 9ADORI_
-t- b-p-o, dTwwvlJki Twb A 
9'y            IC             9'            9'                                                                                                                                 _'        A
g;,~,-,g,  MAURITANIA
ITNEGAL  G                     NS   --                                            At\M A L I
Y ~ GUI.EA   A
.9'  t r ."~                                P--. lENIN At
I E R R A"                                      j
A   L E       I NE  UA-
GUMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A19



