                                   Document of
                                The World Bank


                                                    Report No.: 29308




              PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT




                         REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE




         ROADS REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
                                (CREDIT 2451-SL)

        FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                (CREDIT 2511-SL)




                                   June 8,2004




Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents (annual average official rate)
Currency Unit =Sierra Leonean Leones (SLL)

            Average for:       US$1.oo = SLL       Average for:    US$1.oo = SLL
                1992               499.08             1998            1564.67
                1993               567.33             1999            1820.38
                1994               586.54             2000            2098.71
                1995               753.94             2001            1985.19
                1996               920.75             2002            2050.00
                1997               981.91             2003            2275.40


Abbreviations and Acronyms

AFRC           Armed Forces Revolutionary Council
DOHSS          Department of Health and Social Services
ECOMOG         ECOWAS Military Observer Group
ECOWAS         Economic Community of West African States
ERR            economic rate of return
ES             Evaluation Summary
FCC            Freetown City Council
GOSL           Government of Sierra Leone
GVWC           Guma Valley Water Company
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
I-PRSP         Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IDA            International Development Association
NPRC           National Provisional Ruling Council
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
OP             (Bank) Operational Policy
PCMU           Project Coordination and Management Unit
PPAR           Project Performance Assessment Report
RUF            Revolutionary United Front
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SIPRI          Stockholm International Peace Research Institute
SLPP           Sierra Leone People's Party
SLRA           Sierra Leone Roads Authority
TSS            Transitional Support Strategy
UNAMSIL        United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone
VPd            vehicles per day



Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1-December 31




Director-General, Operations Evaluation             :   Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department          :   Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation             :   Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                        :   Mr. Roy Gilbert

                                                              1




   OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
      The Operations Evaluation Departmentassessesthe programs and activitiesof the World Bankfor two
 purposes: first, to ensurethe integrity of the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank'swork is
 producingthe expected results, and second, to help develop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough
the disseminationof lessons drawn from experience. As partof this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
the Bank's lending operations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations; those for which
 ExecutiveDirectors or Bank managementhave requested assessments;andthose that are likely to generate
 importantlessons.The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selectedfor assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluationby the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries.The PPARthereby seeks to
validate and augmentthe informationprovided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attachedto the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Boardof Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and ratingscale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.orgloed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High,Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved,or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutional Development lmpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient,equitable and sustainable use of its human,financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability,transparency,enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate,which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operationof the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                      111



Contents

Principal Ratings           ...............................................................................................................    v

Key Staff Responsible              ........................................................................................................    v
                                                                                                                                               ..
Preface    ..............................................................................................................................     v11

Summary       ...........................................................................................................................     ix

1. Background            ..................................................................................................................    1

2. Project Design And Implementation                               ..........................................................................  3

3. Results Achieved              ..........................................................................................................    8

4. Conclusions And Lessons                      ..........................................................................................    12

Bibliography       .....................................................................................................................      15

Annex A. Basic data ....................................................................................................                      17




This report was prepared by Nilakshi De Silva (Consultant) who visited Sierra Leone during November-
December 2003. The report was edited by William B. Hurlbut and Romayne Pereira provided
administrative support.


                                                   V



Principal Ratings
Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Cr.2451)
                                        ICR*                ICR Review*                      PPAR
Outcome                              Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                          Likely                 Unlikely                      Likely
Institutional Development Impact        High                 Substantial                  Substantial
Bank Performance                     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Borrower performance                 Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory


Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (Cr.2511)
                                        ICR*                ICR Review.                      PPAR
Outcome                              Satisfactory            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                          Likely                  Likely                      Unlikely
Institutional Development Impact       Modest                  Modest                       Modest
Bank Performance                     Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                 Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 Satisfactory

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of
the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible

Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Cr.2451)
Project                 Task ManagerILeader                    Division Chief/              Country
                                                              Sector Director               Director

 Appraisal '               Thampil Pankaj                      James Wright                 Edwin Lim
 Completion        Zaza Manitranja Ramandimbiarison    Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard      Peter C. Harrold


Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (Cr.2511)
Project                 Task ManageVLeader                     Division Chief/              Country
                                                              Sector Director               Director

 Appraisal                    Nguyen Tin                       James Wright                 Edwin Lim
 Completion               Charles K. Boakye                   Letitia A. Obeng          Peter C. Harrold


                                             vii


Preface
        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the following two
projects in Sierra Leone:

        TheRoads Rehabilitation and Maintenanceproject (Credit 2451-SL),for which
        the World Bank approved a credit of SDR 32 million (US$45 million equivalent)
        on December 22, 1992. The credit was closed on June 30,2001, three years later
        than planned, and SDR 2.0 million (US$2.4 million equivalent) was cancelled.

        The Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitationproject (Credit 2511-SL), for which
        the Bank approved a credit of SDR 18.4 million (US$26 million equivalent) on
        June 10, 1993.The credit was closed on June 30,2001, three years later than
        planned, and SDR 0.5 million (US$0.7 million equivalent) was cancelled.

        This report is based on review of project documents, such as Implementation
Completion Reports, Staff Appraisal Reports, Technical Annexes, legal documents and
project files, discussions with Bank staff involved in the projects and a field assessment.
An OED mission visited Sierra Leone during November-December 2003 to review
project results and met with over 30 officials of central and local government, parastatal
agencies responsible for project implementation, nongovernmental organizations, and
other donors. Field visits were carried out to project sites in Freetown and the provinces,
where the mission met with intended beneficiaries of the project. We gratefully
acknowledge the courtesies and attention given by all these interlocutors as well as the
excellent logistical assistance provided by the World Bank office in Freetown and the
Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) in the Ministry of Transport and
Communications.

    Following standard procedures, copies of the PPAR were sent to relevant government
officials and agencies concerned for comments but none were received.


                                              ix


Summary
        Sierra Leone,just emerging from a prolonged and violent conflict, is one of the
poorest countries in the world and its development needs are staggering. In addition to
the devastating conflict, the country has experienced many years of insecurity and
political instability -which, together, have destroyed the national economy and worsened
the conditions facing the poor. The two projects assessed in this report were identified
and appraised in the early 1 9 9 0before the conflict had become a significant threat to
                                    ~ ~
national security. The violence spread and increased in intensity during project
implementation and disbursements on both projects were disrupted for many months in
1997-1998. The difficult circumstances in which these two projects were implemented
and how they have affected project performance is an important focus of this report.

        The Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance project had six objectives but
mainly aimed to remove physical bottlenecks in the country's transport network through
an extensive road reconstruction and rehabilitation program, build capacity to better plan
and manage road maintenance, and encourage private sector participation in road
maintenance. The project achieved some of its objectives but with significant
shortcomings. Planned works in Freetown were completed and city roads, particularly in
the central business district, have improved. In contrast, the project has had negligible
impact in the provinces as project activities were curtailed after a direct rebel attack on
the project implementation site. More success was achieved in building institutional
capacity in the transport sector as the Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA) is now better
able to plan and manage road network maintenance. Private sector participation in road
maintenance, non-existent before the project, has increased and road maintenance work
provides employment to about 50 small and medium contractors as well as over 500
single-person contractors. Despite these achievements, the overall outcome is rated as
moderately unsatisfactory because co-financing (projected at appraisal to meet 40
percent of project costs) failed to materialize and only 7 percent of planned road works
were completed. Sustainability of project benefits is likely given the existence of the
Road Fund that provides earmarked financing for road maintenance. The institutional
development impact is rated as substantial as the management of road maintenance
improved considerably under the SLRA. Despite poor identification and assessment of
project risks, Bankperformance is rated as satisfactory because of supervision efforts to
maintain contact with implementing agencies throughout the conflict, which helped to
secure the positive outcomes of the project. Borrower performance is rated as
satisfactory mainly because it achieved significant reforms in financing road
maintenance under very difficult circumstances.

        The Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation project aimed to improve
infrastructure in Greater Freetown, with particular regard to the needs of the urban poor,
and strengthen the capacity of responsible agencies. The project has improved living
conditions in six deprived settlements, which now have better roads, market structures,
and access to safe water, although solid waste management remains a problem. The
project was less successful in improving institutional capacity for service delivery in the
city. Despite some improvement in the financial performance of the Guma Valley Water
Company (GVWC), the agency responsible for water supply in Freetown, both the
GVWC and the Freetown City Council continue to have weak capacity and lack of proper

                                               X



maintenance is threatening the continued use of the new facilities. Because the project
achieved its objective of improving infrastructure in Freetown but was less successhl in
strengthening the capacities of agencies responsible for its delivery, overall outcome is
rated as moderately satisfactory. Sustainability of project benefits is unlikely because
the infrastructure is not maintained adequately and some facilities are already falling into
disuse. The institutional development impact is modest, mainly because the City Council,
which is responsible for most of the new facilities, remains as administratively and
operationally weak as before. Bankperformance is satisfactory due to good quality at
entry and supervision and Borrowerperformance is also rated as satisfactory, mainly
because of the performance of implementing units within the SLRA and GVWC in
safeguarding project achievements despite extreme conditions imposed by the conflict.

        The main lessons drawn from these project experiences are:

    0   Projects implemented in countries with an ongoing conflict need to be continually
        monitored to identify and assess the conflict risk to the projects. When continuing
        project implementation under high-risk conditions is likely to prove
        counterproductive, by exposing the Bank and the Borrower to compensation and
        other claims, the Bank might consider disengagement until the environment
        improves.


    0   When project implementation is resumed after a substantial period of inactivity
        due to conflict, technical and financial audits should be carried out to reassess
        priorities for action as well as and any remedial measures needed to secure
        completed activities.


    0   When a country is in, or emerging from conflict, the Bank may need to adopt a
       more flexible approach to borrower compliance with reform-related loan
       covenants. A realistic timeframe should be agreed when attempting to introduce
       unpopular reforms in the context of violence and social instability.




                                                               Gregory K. Ingram
                                                              Director-General
                                                              Operations Evaluation

                                             1


 1.      Background

 1.1    During the past decade, Sierra Leone has experienced a devastating conflict and
long periods of insecurity and political instability. More than 20,000 -mostly civilians
-areestimatedtohavedied,manythousandsmaimed,andabouthalfitspopulationof
five million displaced. In 1992,per capita income wasjust over US$240, one of the
lowest in the world. Since then, however, it has declined every year, except in 1996 when
the economy rallied briefly, and by 2002 Sierra Leone was recording a per capita income
of about US$165, the fifth lowest in the world (World Development Indicators, 2003). In
tandem with the economic decline, social indicators have also deteriorated over the past
decade. Less than 60 percent of Sierra Leonians have access to improved supplies of
water and basic sanitation, child mortality is estimated to be 182/1000births, and life
expectancy at birth is under 35 years (Human Development Indicators, 2003). The
country's development needs are staggering and have remained unmet during many years
of conflict and instability.

1.2     The population of Sierra Leone is essentially rural. When the last census was
carried out in 1985, about 74 percent of the population was living in rural village
settlements of less than 20,000 people (Central Statistics Office, 1985).However, many
people have migrated into urban areas, especially Freetown, because of failed agricultural
policies, many years of poor governance, and deteriorating public institutions with
limited capability to deliver even the most basic services. The city of Freetown, the
administrative and economic center of the country, is also the best endowed in terms of
economic opportunities and social amenities. Much of the economic activity in the
country, such as plantation agriculture in the east and diamond mining in the north, is
linked to Freetown, which has the country's only international seaport and airport.
Development policies adopted during the 1980s and early 1990sfocused on Freetown
and the Western area, to the neglect of rural areas in the North and East.

1.3     The violent conflict, which began in the early 1990s near the eastern border with
Liberia, accelerated urban migration trends and triggered a mass exodus of people toward
the West. At the height of the conflict, as many as 2 million or close to 50 percent of the
population was estimated to be living in the West -compared to about 15percent in
1985. Many refugees have still not returned to their villages. The two projects assessed in
this report were identified and appraised after the conflict had begun but before it had
become a significant threat to national security (See Timeline). The rebellion increased in
intensity during the project implementation period and disbursements on both projects
were disrupted, together with the rest of the Bank portfolio, when the Armed Forces
Revolutionary Council (AFRC) and the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) gained
control of the government in May 1997and anarchy ensued. As may be expected, Bank
projects implemented during the conflict period have not performed well with just 40
percent of the projects achieving a satisfactory performance rating. The difficult
circumstances in which these two projects were implemented and how they have affected
project performance is an important focus of this report.

 Formal end to conflict. All combatants demobilized.


                                                                3    I
 UN imposes sanctions against Liberia.

Bank chairs donor meeting in Paris.
                                                                n
500 UN peacekeepers captured by RUF rebels. British
paratroopers arrive in Freetown. RUF leader captured.
Peace Agreement signed in Lome. UN troops arrive to police
the agreement
Freetown attacked and captured by RUF rebels.



ECOMOG forces storm Freetown and reinstall civilian govt.

UN imposes sanctions on Sierra Leone.

Military coup. AFRCRUF junta control government.

Peace Agreement signed in Abidjan but hostilities continue.

Palace coup followed by multiparty elections, which are won
by civilian coalition




                                                               3




                                                               3
Military coup.



Government resumes debt service payments to the Bank.          3

Start of rebel campaign by RUF forces near Liberian border.


                                                               3




                                                               3




                                                               3



Sierra Leone fails to stay current with debt service payments
to the World Bank and enters non-accrual status.               0

                                               3



2.      Project Design And Implementation

Relevance of Project Objectives

2.1     Despite significant changes in the country since project appraisal, objectives of
both projects remain substantially relevant to Sierra Leone's development priorities
today. Poor infrastructure remains one of the main challenges to the country's economic
development and post-conflict recovery. Both projects proposed to reconstruct, repair,
and provide for the maintenance of public infrastructure such as urban and trunk roads,
public markets, and urban water supply (see Box 1).The focus on road transport under
the Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance project is particularly relevant for Sierra
Leone because, in the absence of a rail system and under-developed air, coastal, and river
transport, economic activity is highly dependent on the road network. Improving
governance and service delivery through greater involvement of the private sector are
also key to the country's development. In the aftermath of the conflict, during which
much of the infrastructure in the country was destroyed or neglected and public service
delivery seriously deteriorated, objectives that focus on physical reconstruction and
capacity building for improved service delivery have become even more relevant to the
development priorities of Sierra Leone.

2.2     However, both projects were designed primarily for the benefit of the country's
urban population particularly in Freetown. Despite objectives which are national in
scope, the Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance project focused more than 75 percent of
resources on rehabilitating first, the trunk roads linking Freetown with provincial towns
such as Bo and Kenema and second, city roads in the central business district in
Freetown. As its name implies, the Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation project is
exclusively focused on the capital city. Several decades of Freetown-centered policies
and projects, which concentrated power and resources in the city, are now blamed for
disenfranchising a large part of the rural population and contributing to the rebellion.
Many of those who came to Freetown to escape the conflict have moved into the
deprived settlements and slum areas in Freetown. Lack of amenities in their villages,
relative to Freetown, may be a factor in their apparent reluctance to leave the city. The
government, supported by the Bank, prioritizes the return and reintegration of displaced
persons and aims to promote this by investing heavily in the provinces and rural areas.
These newer policies have lessened the relevance of both projects and of the Freetown
Infrastructure project in particular. However, as the latter project is focused on the urban
poor -whose numbers are estimated to have more than doubled between 1992 and 2002
and who continue to live under crowded and unsanitary conditions -project objectives
remain substantially relevant for the government's development objective of improving
the urban poor's access to market centers and social and economic services.

                                                   4


 Box 1. Project Objectives and Components

                      Objectives                                        Components
                                                            (withjnal costs in US$millions)

 Physical Obiectives                                  (a) trunk road rehabilitation and maintenance
 (i) remove physical bottlenecks in the country's     (US$35.57);
 transport network, in order to promote a supply      (b) strengthening of road management
 response from the economic recovery program,         institutions (US$2.29);
 through a sustainable road rehabilitation and        (c) support to Department of Works (DOW)
 maintenance program;                                 (US$0.03);
 Institutional Obiectives                             (d) support to transport sector institutions
 (ii) build institutional capacity to better plan and (US$O.OS);
 manage repair and maintenance of roads, and          (e) pilot program for promotion of Non-
 promoting a sustainable system for funding road      Motorized Transport (NMT) (US$0.08); and
 maintenance;                                         (f) technical assistance for project design and
 (iii) strengthen transport sector institutions to    supervision (US$5.10):
 improve sector management, planning and to
 foster market-oriented policies;
 Private Sector Development Obiectives
 (iv) encourage new methods of infrastructure
 rehabilitation and maintenance, using appropriate
 labor-intensive technology and local resources,
 in order to increase employment generation and
 to provide suitable maintenance systems;
 (v) increase the share of private sector
 participation in road maintenance and develop
 the capacity of small-sized contractors to
 maintain the road network;
 Other Obiectives
 (vi) promote the use of non-motorized transport
 to reduce head loading by women and to increase
 rural mobility, improving transport services
 available for the rural poor.
                   FREETOWN INFRASTRUCTURI ZEHABILITATION (C~.2511)
 (i) improve infrastructure in Greater Freetown,
        -                                             (a) urban upgrading (US$3.44m);
 . I
 with particular regard to the needs of the           (b) rehabilitatiodupgrading of access roads
 disadvantaged poor sectors of the city; and          (US$11.22m.);

 (ii) enhance sustainability of such urban            (c) water supply (US$6.86m.);

 infrastructure by improving the technical and        (d) institutional support to Sierra Leone Roads
 financial capacities of agencies responsible for     Authority (SLRA) for project implementation
 operating and maintaining new urban facilities       and to Freetown City Council (FCC) to help
 and for planning and managing future urban           establish a maintenance capacity (US$l.17m.);
 infrastructure investment programs.                  and

I                                                     (e) technical assistance (US$4,76m.).

                                                5



Conflict Constraints on Project Design and Implementation

2.3     The conflict and political instability in Sierra Leone disrupted project
implementation and project efficiency in particular was adversely affected. From May
1997through 1999,there was an almost-complete breakdown of government.
Disbursements on the entire country portfolio stopped and all project activities came to a
complete standstill. Some project inputs, such as aggregate for road reconstruction, and
some outputs, such as partially completed civil works, were left unprotected and were
destroyed by several seasons of heavy rains. Project equipment, especially vehicles, was
stolen or damaged and project buildings were vandalized. As a result, project resources
had to be diverted toward salvaging components that had been partially completed before
the disruptions. Both projects therefore had to spend more than planned to achieve fewer
outputs. For example, despite 40 percent cost overrun on the road component under the
Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation project, expenditures did not cover road repairs in
two out of the six deprived areas. Also, more than 1,000domestic water meters installed
by the Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC) under the project were illegally removed
during the chaos and had to be reinstalled. Under the Roads Rehabilitation and
Maintenance project, close to 20 percent of final project costs was paid to contractors as
compensation for conflict losses. As the conflict interrupted implementation, its impact
on these two projects is largely manifested as efficiency losses.

2.4     However, project efficiency and efficacy were also affected by factors unrelated
to the conflict. The conflict is blamed for failure of the non-motorized transport
component under the Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance project because the locations
originally selected for piloting this component became inaccessible due to the conflict.
However, this component -with a design too rigidly based on Bank experience
elsewhere and without sufficient input from intended beneficiaries in Sierra Leone -
may have performed poorly even if implemented exactly according to plan. Similarly,
vandalization of the SLRA building and loss of documents is blamed for non-
implementation of five major studies carried out under the Freetown Infrastructure
Rehabilitation project when the reports were in fact completed but arejust gathering dust
in Freetown. There is a tendency on the part of both Bank and borrower staff to attribute
poor project results to the conflict but, while the extreme conditions undoubtedly affected
project performance, good project design and implementation arrangements may have
improved project outcomes -despite the conflict.

2.5     While the implementation of both projects was severely disrupted by the conflict,
neither was designed with much reference to the conflict. The projects were still being
appraised in 1992-1993,at least one year after rebel activity had started in the east, but
neither project's appraisal document discusses the conflict as a potential project risk.
While this may be excused in the case of the Freetown Infrastructure project, which was
to be implemented more than 450 kilometers away from the conflict area at the time, it is
less so in the Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance project, which proposed to carry out
road reconstruction as far east as Kenema, close to rebel activity. The failure to even
identify the conflict as a potential risk -let alone incorporate measures to mitigate the
risk -has cost the borrower heavily. Over US$8 million in project funds had to be used to
pay compensation to the foreign contractors. The government is left with the liability to

                                               6


repay the credit to the Bank -but with no road. The experience of the Roads
Rehabilitation and Maintenance project suggests that big road reconstruction contracts
with very large inputs of workers and materials should be monitored continually with
respect to security risks in or near conflict zones.

Project Design, Supervision and Bank Performance

2.6     While the adverse conditions in Sierra Leone affected both projects' results, there
are important differences in the performance of each project, which may be explained by
reference to the quality of Bank performance, The Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation
project was well designed because the project concept was simple -providing basic
infrastructure such as roads and water supply-and there was a clear poverty focus -
six disadvantaged neighborhoods in Freetown were selected for project implementation.
The project design took account of limited capacity within the Freetown City Council
(FCC) to implement the project by itself. However, as the FCC was to be the final
beneficiary of the infrastructure, project design should have been more proactive in
remedying this limitation in capacity. In contrast to the Freetown Infrastructure project,
which was prepared in less than six months, the Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
project was prepared over a five-year period (mainly because Sierra Leone was in non-
accrual status from August 1987to January 1991) and was more ambitious in the number
and scope of its objectives. In addition to large-scale civil works, the project also aimed
to pilot a program for promoting non-motorized transport in rural areas, which is
unrelated to the core objectives and outside of the implementing agency's expertise. Firm
commitments were not obtained from co-financiers, who were expected to meet as much
as 40 percent of project costs. Nevertheless, as with urban infrastructure projects such as
the Freetown Infrastructure project, the Bank has many years of experience in road
infrastructure and the core components of the Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
project were technically well designed. Therefore, the overall quality at entry of both
projects is satisfactory.

2.7     The conditions under which these two projects were implemented, in particular
from 1997onwards, were extremely difficult and the Bank expended a great deal of
effort to maintain constant supervision and restart project activities interrupted by conflict
when conditions stabilized. When Sierra Leone was inaccessible due to the violence
engulfing the country, Bank supervision missions met with project staff in neighboring
Conakry, Guinea and Abidjan, C6td d'Ivoire. Nevertheless, there were some
shortcomings in Bank supervision, particularly in monitoring and reporting. Under the
Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance project, close to two-thirds of total costs were
allocated to road reconstruction and rehabilitation with the objective of removing
physical bottlenecks in the country's transport network. Yet, when it had become
apparent that this main objective was unlikely to be achieved -when co-financiers had
withdrawn because of the security situation, the major roads contract was cancelled due
to a rebel attack and safety considerations had restricted SLRA's maintenance activities
to the western region -Bank supervision missions were still reporting satisfactory
implementation progress and achievement of development objectives. None of the project
objectives were revised. Key project results were inaccurately reported in the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR), which states that 72 kilometers of trunk roads

                                                    7


were rehabilitated, when in fact only 15kilometers had been completed.' Lack of
continuity of Bank resources -there were four task team leaders (TTLs) during the first
three years of implementation -disrupted supervision quality. However, despite these
shortcomings, the Bank did well to maintain supervision efforts through the height of the
conflict, which undoubtedly helped to consolidate the positive outcomes to this project.

2.8      While Bank supervision of the Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation project was
generally satisfactory, there were shortcomings in monitoring. About 80 persons were
resettled due to project activities, which is not adequately reported in Bank supervision
documents and local project staff did not appear to be aware of Bank policies on
Involuntary Resettlement or of OP4.12. The OED mission could not determine
conclusively that the project had contravened safeguard policy because of the significant
lapse of time since the resettlement and because many of those affected no longer live at
the resettled location. Bank supervision was also inadequate to ensure proper
reconciliation of project finances with Bank records at the end of the project, particularly
as the project was implemented through two implementation units -within the SLRA
and GVWC.

Implementation Units,Sector Reforms and Borrower Performance

2.9     The borrower was under significant strain during project implementation, but the
project implementation units (PIUs) performed well to regroup and complete the projects.
When project activities resumed in 1999,technical and financial audits were carried out
to determine whether project objectives or components needed to be revised in view of
the substantial changes in conditions prevailing in Sierra Leone. The PIUs prioritized
activities that were most relevant to the changed conditions and, where necessary, carried
out remedial measures to safeguard works/activities already completed. This contributed
to securing the positive outcomes of the projects. Finally, while lack of institutional
capacity is a major issue for Sierra Leone's development, the PIUs created under these
projects were located within larger organizations into which they have been absorbed.
This has strengthened local capacity to carry out similar development projects in the
country.

2.10    The borrower has also performed well to implement and remain committed to
several reforms introduced by the projects, and done so under extremely difficult
conditions. The Road Fund for financing road network maintenance was legally
constituted in 1989but only came into effect in 1992when the SLRA was established
and before the Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance project was implemented. Since
then, the government increased the fuel levy sevenfold, providing a stable -if not
entirely sufficient -source of funding for road maintenance in Sierra Leone. That this
was peacefully achieved is remarkable given the potential for social instability that
increasing fuel prices can provoke. Similarly, under the Freetown Infrastructure
Rehabilitation project, the GVWC instituted cost recovery through metered billing and a
card payment system for public standpipes that are contributing to its positive return on
net fixed assets (though less than the 8 percent agreed under the DCA). These reforms


1. However, this PPAR does not take into account the quality of the ICR to assess overall Bank
performance.

                                                    8

met with strong -and sometimes violent -public opposition and many water meters
were forcibly removed by members of the public. Just before the military coup in 1997,
the government intervened to stop installation of water meters by GVWC. Since the
return of stability to Sierra Leone, the government has supported GVWC's cost recovery
measures. Installation of water meters has resumed and more customers are billed on
metered consumption. Similarly, as mentioned above, the government has increased the
Road Fund levy on several occasions in the past, but the largest increase was achieved in
2003, after stability had returned to Sierra Leone. The experience of these two projects
suggests that pushing through substantial reforms under conflict conditions is not
sustainable -or palatable for governments facing social instability on many fronts. A
more flexible approach -perhaps adopting a more realistic time frame or a more
incremental attitude toward reforms -may provide more sustainable results. As the
government was successful in introducing substantial reforms despite the volatile country
conditions, the overall borrower performance on both projects is satisfactory.


3.       Results Achieved

Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project

3.1.     The project partially achieved its objective of removing physical bottlenecks in
the country's transport network, with more success in Freetown than in the provinces. In
the central business district in Freetown, 15kilometers of the main city streets were
paved as planned under the project and bottlenecks caused by poor road condition have
been reduced. The Clinetown-Wellingtonroad, which links Freetown to the trunk road
network, was also rehabilitated under the project and SLRA's preliminary traffic counts
indicate a 200-300 percent growth in traffic volumes per day on this stretch since 1991.*
Traffic flow has also been eased by drainage repairs, which have reduced street flooding
during the rainy season and, as many of the city drains are now covered, they are less
cluttered and blocked by garbage. However, the full benefit from these improvements -
in the form of less congestion in the city -has not been realized due to the large influx
of people into the city exacerbated by the poor traffic management system currently in
place. The central business district is highly congested and the movement of traffic, while
improved, is still very slow, indicating that the reduction in vehicle operating costs
envisaged at project appraisal has not been fully realized.

3.2.     In the provinces, the impact of the project is negligible. About 357 kilometers of
paved roads and 136kilometers of gravel roads in the main trunk road network were to
be rehabilitated but only 15kilometers, or 3 percent, had in fact been completed under
the project. About one-third of these roads have, or are being rehabilitated under separate
projects supported by the EU, but the condition of remaining roads has deteriorated
further and many of the main paved roads, such as the Makeni-Sefaduroad linking
Freetown with the diamond mining areas and the Taima-Bo road linking Freetown with
Sierra Leone's second-largest city in Bo, now resemble gravel tracks. According to users
such as the Road Transport Corporation (RTC), vehicle operating costs are extremely


2. Calculated based on 12-hourvehicle count multiplied by factor of 1.3 for vpd.

                                                  9


high, and breakdowns are a common sight on trunk roads. The improvement in road
condition is marginal -56 percent of the network is still in poor condition compared to
70 percent before the project -and the poor state of the road network continues to pose
a serious impediment to economic growth in the country.

3.3.     The project contributed to building institutional capacity in the transport sector
particularly by helping the SLRA to become fully operational. The SLRA, which took
over the road management functions of the Department of Works (DOW), is now better
able to plan and manage road maintenance. Road management and administration is now
more effective, transparent, and accountable. The SLRA estimates that between 75 and
80percent of the current road maintenance budget is carried out through private sector
contracts, which compares well with the pre-project situation when the DOW carried out
100percent of road maintenance through fbrce account. The project also provided 266
man-months of domestic and 38 man-months of overseas training for SLRA staff. SLRA
is now fully capable of effectively supervising and administering all major civil works
contracts and maintenance contracts. Institutional inefficiency has also been reduced.
However, there is still much room for improving the functioning and performance of the
SLRA-financial reports in particular can be prepared in a more timely manner and
maintenance planning can correspond better with the actual work carried out. Operational
efficiency and transparency continue to be an issue as the SLRA is both the manager and
beneficiary of the Road Fund and uses as much as one-third of the funds collected for its
own administrative overheads.

3.4.     The project provided some                        Project Results in Numbers
                                                                              -
support to transport sector                                                            Target  Actual
institutions such as the Ministries        Road network condition
of Transport & Communications                -Good (%)                                  50      28
and Works, Housing & Technical               -Fair (%)                                  30      16
Maintenance, but this intervention           -Poor (%)                                  20      56
was too small (less than                   Road rehabilitation and reconstruction
US$lOO,OOO) for the task and has             -IDA financed (kms)                        140     38
not lead to significant                      -Co-financing (kms)                        373
improvements in sector                                                                          03
                                           Maintenance bv urivate sector (contract)
management, planning, or market-             -Periodic (%)                              70      30
oriented policies.
                                             -Routine (labor based) (%)                 90     100

3.5.     A key achievement to                -Routine (machine based) (%)               50      50

which the project has contributed            -Single-person contractors employed        600    540

is the development of a local             Non-motorized transport
contracting industry for road                -bicycle-trailer units distributed        2500     45
maintenance in Sierra Leone. From            -units locally produced                   2200     0
none in 1992,there are now about           Sources: SLRA; Transport StatisticsYearbooks
50 local small and medium-scale contractors, four of whom have recently acquired the
capacity to carry out periodic maintenance on paved roads. Routine maintenance work is
now largely carried out by the private sector, with 100percent of labor-based routine

3. The Wellington-Waterloo road (19 kms) was subsequently completed by the EU under a separate,
unrelated project.

                                              10


maintenance done by single-person contractors. It is estimated that there are about 540
single-person contractors and feeder road maintenance is carried out entirely by them. In
2002, the total employment created through road maintenance work is estimated at
380,000 man-days.

3.6.    Project benefits are likely to be sustainable, due in large part to the existence of
the Road Fund and the Bank's follow-up Transport Sector Project. By supporting the
Road Fund, financed by a levy on fuel imports and charges on vehicle registration and
licenses, the project contributed to the development of an effective mechanism for
funding road maintenance. However, according to the SLRA's analysis, the Road Fund
meets less than 60 percent of maintenance needs, even after taking into account the recent
70 percent increase of the fuel levy. While the continuing effective operation of the Road
Fund is a remarkable achievement, it will not be sufficient by itself to meet the total
needs of a network still in a precarious condition.

3.7.    The project also aimed to promote non-motorized transport in the country, but this
objective was not achieved. The project intended to provide 2,500 bicycle trailer units
but, of the 95 units imported before this component was discontinued, only 45 were
actually distributed to the target users. Even of these few units, most are no longer in use
due to lack of suitable spare parts. The design of this component was too rigidly based
upon Bank experience in Ghana and not sufficiently adapted to the hilly terrain in Sierra
Leone.

Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation (FIRP) Project

3.8. The project contributed to improving infrastructure in Greater Freetown and the
urban poor living in six deprived settlements directly benefited from improved conditions
such as better roads, market structures, and access to safe water. About 24 kilometers of
inner city roads (close to 95 percent of the appraisal target) were rehabilitated, improving
road access to these settlements and reducing flooding. However, out of the six, two of
the most deprived areas have not benefited to the same extent. More than 90 percent of
the road works were carried out in the built-up areas of Brookfields, Congo Market, and
Ginger Hall, whereas road repairs planned in the slum areas of Susan's Bay and Mabella
were abandoned due to shortage of funds. The all-weather concrete pathway into the
interior of Kroo Bay (a marginal residential area consisting mostly of slum dwellings)
contrasts sharply with the narrow, highly congested, muddy, and badly deteriorated road
surfaces in Susan's Bay and Mabella. Six public ablution facilities and 11public toilets
were also constructed under the project. While the structures themselves are well built,
many of these facilities are under-used due to poor maintenance. Most facilities do not
have regular supply of water. One ablution facility in Ginger Hall has not had running
water in over three years. The public toilets are also under-used, either due to lack of
water or because of lack of demand. Some buildings are now used as private storage
areas instead of providing a public facility. Overall, the impact of urban upgrading under
the project is more substantial in the built-up areas than in the slum neighborhoods.
3.9.    Six of the busiest markets in Freetown were upgraded under the project, but
except for the Kennedy Street market, market structures are badly designed with little
natural light or ventilation. Covered areas in markets at Fisher Street, Smyth Street, and
Bombay Street in particular, are sparsely occupied with the entire newly built upper floor

of the Bombay Street market remaining empty. Most market activity takes place in the
open air on the streets, under difficult conditions for both sellers and buyers. This
invasion of street space adds to traffic congestion in Freetown. A Fourah Bay College
survey in 1997noted a fall in the number of market users over time, a trend confirmed by
officials in Freetown. The inappropriate design of these market structures is the most
likely reason for this sub-optimal outcome. The better-designed, open-plan Kennedy
Street market is fully occupied, in contrast to the low-ceilinged, dark -and sparsely
occupied -Smythe Street and Fisher Street markets.

3.10. The project has had little impact on solid waste management in Freetown, which
has deteriorated to an alarming degree. The Department of Health and Sanitation Services
(DOHSS), which was responsible for solid waste management during project
implementation, was provided 50 skip bins and 2 skip loaders under the project to
improve waste collection. While this intervention is too small to have had a significant
impact on improving waste management in a city of over 1million residents, any positive
effect dissipated in the continuing confusion over who is responsible for waste
management in Freetown. Currently, the Ministry of Youth, the DOHSS, the SLRA, and
Ministry of Energy and Power each have some responsibility, but the deplorable waste
situation, with discarded trash throughout the city, indicates the ineffectiveness of the
current arrangements. Two studies were carried out under the project to improve the
city's waste management, but none of their recommendations have been implemented.
Poor waste management is also undermining gains on other infrastructure, because the
environment around markets are highly unsanitary and roads are blocked or flooded
because of garbage blocking the drains.

3.11. The FCC is formally responsible for the maintenance of infrastructure constructed
under the project, but the project provided little capacity building help to the FCC to
fulfill that responsibility. The resulting lack of proper maintenance is threatening the
continued use of the facilities. The FCC collects market dues daily from market sellers
but market structures are in a poor state of repair and maintenance, water supply is
irregular, and solid waste disposal is inadequate. Efforts to create a road maintenance unit
within the FCC have absorbed a great deal of resources but, more than two years after the
project ended, the unit is yet to become fully operational. Two studies, to provide a
structural plan for Greater Freetown and an operational and financial review of FCC,
were carried out under the project, but none of their recommendations have been
implemented. Until the FCC is willing and capable of providing effective maintenance of
public infrastructure in Freetown, and is held accountable for such services, investment in
such public infrastructure is unlikely to provide sustainable benefits.

3.12. By constructing 524 public standpipes and extending city coverage by
constructing 28 kilometers of pipeline, the project contributed to improving access to safe
water supply for the urban poor, who overwhelmingly use public standpipes. GVWC
(which is responsible for water supply in Freetown) reports that of the 774 standpipes in
the city, between 450 and 500 are functioning at any given time. A government survey
found that about 1million people in the western province, which includes Freetown, had
access to safe sources of water by year 2000 (compared to less than 500,000 people in
1985).The project was less successful in improving institutional capacity and
management of the GVWC, which has also been supported under the overlapping Urban

                                               12


Water Supply project (Cr2702). Despite assistance to improve operational and financial
performance, only 30 percent of the water supplied to the city is accounted for. There is
no universal metering system in place as yet and close to 80 percent of the consumers are
billed, not on consumption, but on the rateable value of their property. Water stoppages
are still common across the city and a leak detection program under the project has failed
to significantly curtail losses.

4.       ConclusionsAnd Lessons

4.1      Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance: Project objectives are substantially
relevant to Sierra Leone's development strategy as rehabilitating road transport
infrastructure is essential to the country's economic recovery. However, despite
improving the institutional capacity for road maintenance in Sierra Leone, efficacy in
achieving project objectives is rated as modest because only 7 percent of planned road
works were completed and substantially below-target improvement were achieved in the
road network. Efficiency is also modest, mainly because close to 20 percent of final
project costs were paid out as compensation to contractors, rather than for completed
outputs. Because there are significant shortcomings in project achievements, overall
outcome of the project is rated as moderately unsatisfactory. Sustainability of project
benefits is likely given the existence of the Road Fund, which provides financing
earmarked for road maintenance. The institutional development impact of the project is
rated as substantial as the management of road maintenance improved significantly
under the SLRA. Despite poor identification and assessment of project risks, Bank
performance is rated as satisfactory, mainly because of supervision efforts to maintain
contact with implementing agencies throughout the conflict and, post-conflict, helping to
secure the positive outcomes of the project. Borrower performance is rated as
satisfactory, mainly because it achieved significant reforms in financing road
maintenance under very difficult circumstances.

4.2     Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation: Despite the geographic focus on
Freetown, project objectives are substantially relevant to current government and Bank
development strategy as they aim to improve access to markets and services for the urban
poor. Efficacy is modest because, despite achieving its physical objective, the technical
and financial capability of the responsible agencies, particularly the FCC, is still
inadequate. Efficiency of the project is rated as substantial mainly because the benefit
stream from such infrastructure such as access roads and public standpipes are substantial
compared to costs. The overall outcome of the project is therefore rated as moderately
satisfactory because the project achieved its objective of improving infrastructure in
Freetown but was less successhl in strengthening the capacities of agencies responsible
for its delivery. As the infrastructure is not maintained adequately and some facilities are
already falling into disuse, sustainability is rated as unlikely. Despite some improvement
in the performance of GVWC, the institutional development impact of the project is
modest mainly because the FCC, which is responsible for most of the new facilities,
remains as weak as before. Bankperformance is satisfactory due to good quality at
entry and supervision and Borrowerperformance is also rated as satisfactory, mainly
because of the performance of PIUs in safeguarding project achievements, despite
extreme conditions imposed by the conflict.

                                             13



Lessons:

      Projects implemented in countries with an ongoing conflict need to be continually
      monitored to identify and assess the conflict risk to the projects. Some types of
      projects, such as large-scale, capital-intensiveprojects, may be more vulnerable to
      conflict risk. Indicators to monitor can include proximity of conflict activity to
      project areas, extent of project risk in terms of potential losses (both human and
      material), and the level of support for the project, both locally and nationally. The
      Bank might consider disengagement until the environment improves because
      continuing project implementation under high-risk conditions is likely to prove
      counterproductive and expose the Bank and the Borrower to compensation and
      other claims that divert resources away from investment and development.

      Whenproject implementation is interruptedfor a substantialperiod of inactivity
      due to conflict, technical andfinancial audits should be carried out to reassess
     priorities for action. Partially completed activities, especially in relation to
      infrastructure such as roads and buildings, can deteriorate with long periods of
      inactivity when they are not maintained or sufficiently protected against adverse
     weather conditions. A technical audit can identify the remedial measures to secure
     completed activities and achieved outcomes. This would also provide an
     opportunity to assess the development effectiveness of the project and revise
     project objectives that may no longer be relevant or achievable under changed
     conditions in the country.

      Whena country is in or emergingfrom conflict, the Bank may need to beflexible
     about borrower compliance with loan covenants that necessitate substantial
     reforms. A realistic timeframe should be agreed when attempting to introduce
     unpopular reforms in the context of violence and social instability. Implementing
     reforms such as universal water metering and increasing he1 levies are highly
     controversial issues and can even threaten post-conflict stability. While the
     experience of these two projects suggest that substantial reforms are possible even
     in conflict and post-conflict environments, Bank and Borrower strategies should
     be based on a realistic assessment of what is possible and achievable rather than
     agreements reached under very different circumstances.


                                            15


Bibliography

        Bank of Sierra Leone. 2003.Annual Report and Statement of Accountfor theyear
ended 31 December 2002, Freetown, BSL.

        Central Statistics Office. 1985.Population and Housing Census, Sierra Leone -
TheAnalytical Report, Freetown, Central Statistics Office.

        City Council of Freetown. 2003.Annual Estimates 01July 2003 30 June 2004.
                                                                       -

        Government of Sierra Leone. 2001. Annual Statistical Digest, Freetown, Central
Statistics Office.

        Government of Sierra Leone. 2000. Survey Report on the status of women and
children in Sierra Leone at the end of the Decade: A Household Survey, Freetown,
Central Statistics Office.

        Government of Sierra Leone. Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. June
2001,Freetown.

        Ministry of Transport and Communications. TransportStatistics Yearbook.2000-
2002, Freetown, CMU -Transport Sector project.

        Sierra Leone Roads Authority. 2001.Annual Report, Freetown, SLRA.

        UNDP, 2003.Human Development Report, New York, Oxford University Press.

        World Bank. 2003. WorldDevelopment Indicators.
http://www.worldbank.orp/data/

        World Bank. 2002. Transitional Support Strategyfor the Republic of Sierra
Leone, Washington DC, World Bank.


                                        17


Annex A. Basic data sheet

Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (Credit 2451-SL)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                            Appraisal             Actual or
                                            Estimate           current estimate

  Total project costs                         92.74                 43.15
  Loan amount                                  45                   42.6
  Co-financing                                36.89                   0
  Date physical components completed       06/30/1998            06/30/2001
  Economic rate of return                     30%                   NIA

Staff Inputs
  Stage of project cycle                               Actual


                                             Weeks               US$ `000


  IdentificationlPreparation                  63.0                  I88.7
  Appraisal-Board                             53.5                  146.5
  Supervision (including ICR)                 145.8                 462.3
  Total                                       262.3                 797.5


Project Dates
                                           Original               Actual

  Appraisal                                04/14/1992           04121/ I992
  Approval                                 12/22/1992           12/22/1992
  Effectiveness                            04/27/1993           08/20/1993
  Closing                                  06/30/1998           06/30/2001

                                                               18




Stage of project cycle         Month/        No. of      Days in Specialized staff skills'    Performance Rating**
                                year        persons      Field        represented
IdentificationlPreparation 1    01/83      1  2        ,        1      SE, SHE              i                       I
                            ii  05/83     j   2      i          i      SE, SHE              i                         I
                                08/83         2        i        i      SE, SHE                                        I
                            1I  11/83          1   1            i         SE                j
                                02/85         2        j        I      SE, SHE              j                         I
                            11  05/87          1       I                  SE                j         1
                                04/91     11  2        1               PTS, STE             1         i              I
                           1    09/91     i   2        i               PTS, STE             /
AppraisaVNegotiation       1    04/92     i   3        i        1 PTS, HE(Cons), ROE        1         i
                                06/92          -    !                                       I                         j
Supervision                1I   01/93     11  4        I           STE, PE, C, ILOR         I S       !      S        1
                           j                                                                                       1
                                05/93     1   1         /       j         STE             j   s       I      S     i
                           1i   09/93     1   2    1            I      STE, HE              1 s             HS
                                12/93     j   3                      STE, RTS, HE             HS      i     HS
                                                                                                      1
                                                       ~
                           I    04/94     /   4                 1  STE, RTS, HE, C            HS            HS        i
                           i1   06/94         2      j          i      STE, HE                HS      i      S        i
                           :    11/94    1    6    1            12 FA, RTS, HE, E, SO0        HS             S
                                03/95    j    3                        HE, E, AS              S       I               1I
                           j 06/95(MTR) 1                                                                    S
                                              6      1          1 FA, RTS,2HE,E,SOO         j S              S
                           1   04/96     i    2      j                 SOO,HE             i   s              S
                          i                                                                                           I
                               08/96          2                 I      POO, E/UP          i   s              S        i
                           1   03/97     11   3    1                  POO, FA, HE         1 s                       i
                                                    1                                                 I      S
                          11
                          i    05/98          1                 1         HE                                 U
                               12/98    I1    1    1                      HE              i1 uu       I      U      1
                               06/99     1    1     '           I
                                                                I         HE              I   U              S      i
                          j    09/99     j    1                           HE              j   u              U
                          1    12/99     /    2                         HE, FA            I                         1
                                                                                                      I      U
                          i    05/00   j      2    j            I       HE, FA            j   sU      j      S
                          j    11/00          2     j                  SHE, FA            j   s              S


* Staff Skills Key
AS=Airport Specialist                       C=Consultant                         E=Economist
FA=Financial Analyst                        HE=Highway Engineer                  ILOR=ILO Representative
PE=Principal Economist                      POO=Principal Operations Officer PTS=Principal Transport Specialist
ROE=Road Organization Expert                RTS=Rural Transport Specialist       SE=Senior Economist
SHE=Senior Highway Engineer                 STE=Senior Transport Engineer        SOO=Senior Operations Officer
UP=Urban Planner

**Performance Rating Key
HS=Highly Satisfactory
S=Satisfactory
U=Unsatisfactory

                                                        19


  Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2511-SL)

  Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                                 Appraisal                    Actual or
                                                                 estimate                  current estimate

      Total project costs                                           36.0                         27.5
       Loan amount                                                  26.0                         25.3
      Co-financing                                                   0                            0
      Date physical components completed                        06/30/1998                    06/30/2001
       Economic rate of return                                      34%                           N/A
  Staff Inputs
       Stage of project cycle                                                    Actual


                                                                  Weeks                       US$ `000

       Preparation to Appraisal                                    41.1                         91.7
      AppraisallNegotiation                                        23.6                         50.2
      SuDervision                                                  74.24                       247.4
       ICR                                                         3.51                         28.1
      Total                                                        142.45                      417.4
  Project Dates
                                                                 Original                      Actual




Stage of project cycle        Month/      No. of  Days in Specialized staff skills*     Performance Rating *
                                                                                                           R


                                year     persons  Field          represented         Impl.        Dev. Objectives
                                                                                    Progress
IdentificationlPreparation   12/10/1992 1   6            1 2ML (AF4IN andAFGIN), i               i               I

                                        I                i 3C (2 ME & and RVE), SE               i               1
                           I 03/03/1993     4                  ME,CE,ES,SOO         I            I
AppraisallNegotiation        04/05/1993 1   4    I       ijTL, FA, 2C (M/CE and ES) j                            I

Supervision                i 07/29/1993 1   1                      TL (POO)         I     HS            HS
                           I 10/17/1993 1   4    j       !ITL, FA,2C(M/CE&PS)             HS           HS
                           1 12/18/1993 1   2            I          TL, FA         1      HS     1     HS
                           1 03/09/1994 j   2            I          TL, FA          !     HS     i      HS       i
                           I 11/04/1994 i   6    I       1 TL, 2FA, SE, C(ME), DC I       S            HS        I
                           j 05/04/1995     I /          I            TL                  S      I     HS
                                                 !                                  1
                             __------_______I_                                                                   I
                          [11/30/1995      2             I          TL, SE                HS    I      HS
                           j 08/15/1996    2    1        I          TL, UP         I      S            HS
                           j 03/09/1997     3    j                TL, FA, HE       1    s               S       j

                           1[10/23/1999    2    1                 TL, C (CE)       /     u       j      U        1
                             10/13/2000    2     I                  TL, ME         !     U              U
                           1                                                                    I
                             03/31/2001 1  2             I          TL, ME         I    U       I       U
ICR                        1 07/22/2001 1  2     !                  TL, ME         /     u      I       U        I
 * Staff Skills Key


