CREDIT NUMBER 2511 SL
Development Credit Agreement
(Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2511 SL
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            It>           , 1993 between the
REPUBLIC   OF  SIERRA  LEONE  the   Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   Parts A (1), A (2), A (4), B, D and E, of the Project
will be carried out on behalf of the Freetown City Council (FCC)
with the Borrower's assistance by the Sierra Leone Roads Authority
(SLRA), a statutory corporation established and operating under the
laws of the Borrower;
(C)   Part A (3) of the Project will be carried out by SLRA on
behalf of the Borrower;
(D)   Part C of the Project will be carried out with the
Borrower's assistance by the Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC), a
company established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(E)   the Borrower will, as part of such assistance, make
available to SLRA and GVWC the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral p..rt of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "SLRA Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SLRA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the SLRA Project Agreement;
(b)   "GVWC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and GVWC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term 4.ncludes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the GVWC Project Agreement;
(c)   "Project Agreements" means the SLRA Project Agreement
and the GVWC Project Agreement;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and GVWC pursuant to Section 3.01
(c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(e)   "SLRA Special Account" means the account opened in the
name of SLRA and referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(f)   "GVWC Special Account" means the account opened in the
name of GVTTC and referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(g)   "Special Accounts" means the SLRA Special Account and
the GVWC Special Account;
(h)   "SLRA Act" means the Sierra Leone Roads Authority Act,
1992, of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(i)   "SLRA"  means   the  Sierra   Leone   Roads  Authority
established and operating under the SLRA Act;
(j)   "GVWC Act" means the Guma Valley Water Act, 161, of the
Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(k)   "GVWC" means the Guma Valley Water Company established
and operating under the GVWC Act;


﻿-3-
(1)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(m)   "FCC" means the Freetown City Council;
(n)   "PMCU" means the Project Management and Coordinating
Unit referred to in Part D (1) of the Project and Section 2.01 (b)
of the SLRA Project Agreement;
(o)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the  project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 22, 1992 and
March 26, 1993 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(p)   "Leone" means currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eighteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 18,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit,
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts in a
commercial bank or banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. One such Special Account shall be in the name
of S IA (the SLRA Special Account) and the other Special Account
shall .e in the name of GVWC (the GVWC Special Account). Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15,
commencing July 15, 2003 and ending January 15, 2033. Each
installment  to,   and  including  the  installment  payable  on,
January 13, 2013, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of
such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to inrlude, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of SectiGn 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause SLRA and GVWC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreements all the respective
obligations of SLRA and GVWC therein set forth, shall take and cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, faci-
lities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable SLRA and GVWC to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) provide in its budget amounts
sufficient to cover its counterpart contributions to the costs of
the Project; (ii) open and thereafter maintain in a commercial bank
in the name of SLRA a project account (the Project Account) to be
utilized by SLRA for purposes of the Project. The Borrower shall
deposit into the Project Account (A) an initial amount of 200
million Leones, and (B) the remaining part of said counterpart
contributions, quarterly in advance, in the amounts determined by
the Borrower and the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall for purposes of the Project relend
$7,000,000 equivalent out of the proceeds of the Credit .o GVWC
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and GVWC under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association and which shall include: (i) repayment
of principal in 20 years (including 5 years of grace); (ii) annual
interest at the prevailing rate payable by borrowers on loans made
by the Bank; (iii) capitalization of: (A) interest during
construction; and (B) related taxes and duties during the period of
repayment of principal of the proceeds of the Credit relent to GVWC;
and (iv) the assumption by GVWC of any foreign exchange risks on
such proceeds.
(d)   The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Credit
make available to SLRA $19,000,000 equivalent, as a grant, on terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association
including terms requiring the carrying out by FCC of the actions


﻿-7-
described in Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement to the
satisfaction of the Association.
(e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect tihe interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Proj ect Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by SLRA and GVWC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreements.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be
carried out, the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement
to the satisfaction of the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, until completion of the
Project, jointly with SLRA, GVWC, FCC and the Association, carry out
in October of each year an annual review of the Project. The annual
review shall, inter alia, assess: (i) the progress made in carrying
out the various components of the Project; (ii) the work program and
budgetary allocations proposed for the said components; (iii)
compliance with financial, audit and other covenants under the
Project; (iv) the carrying out of GVWC's metering program and its
water tariff structure based on metered consumption; (v) status of
the solid waste management component of the Project; (vi) per-
formance under the Project of PMCU and FCC's Maintenance Unit; and
(vii) corrective measures that need to be taken including changes,
if any, in the scope and content of the Project.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that   all records   (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made;
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
and


﻿-9-
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to SeCtion 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   SLRA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the SLRA Project Agreement;
(b)   GVWC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the GVWC Project Agreement;
(c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that SLRA or GVWC
will be able to perform its obligations under the SLRA Project
Agreement or the GVWC Project Agreement;
(d)   the SLRA Act or GVWC Act shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of SLRA or GVWC to perform any of its
obligations under the SLRA Project Agreement or the GVWC Project
Agreement; and
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SLRA or GVWC or for the suspension of the operations of SLRA or
GVWC.
Section 5.02. (a) Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(i)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur
and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(ii)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (d) and
(e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur,
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and GVWC;
(b)   the establishment of the Project Account and the payment
into the Project Account of an initial amount of 200 million Leones;
(c)   the appointment by SLRA for the PMCU of an Engineer/
Procurement Specialist, a Project Accountant and an Assistant
Project Manager in accordance with Section 2.01 (b) of the SLRA
Project Agreement; and
(d)   the conclusion by the Borrower and GVWC of the financial
arrangements referred to in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following events are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized or
ratified by and are legally binding upon SLRA and GVWC in accordance
with their terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and GVWC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and GVWC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower* Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of State for Finance, Development
and Economic Planning of the Borrower is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Financial Secretary
The Department of Finance, Development
and Economic Planning
Freetown
Sierra Leone
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFIN                    3363
Freetown
Telefax:
225353
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
By /5/
Athorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /3)7
Regiona Vice President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                                100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(a) Community/               780,000
slum
upgrading
(b) Market                 1,270,000
improvement
(c) Roads                  4,590,000
(d) Water supply           1,560,000
(2) Equipment,                                  100% of foreign
vehicles and                                expenditures and
materials:                                  90% of local
expenditures
(a) SLRA                     430,000
(b) FCC                      570,000
(c) GVWC                   2,050,000


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(3) Technical assistance                       100%
and training:
(a) SLRA                   3,250,000
(b) FCC                      430,000
(c) GVWC                    570,000
(4) Refunding of               1,060,000       Amount due pur-
Project                                     suant to Section
Prepara-                                    2.02 (c) of this
tion                                       Agreement
Advance
(5) Unallocated               1,840,000
TOTAL                18,400,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b)   expenditures  under  Category  (2)  (b) relating    to
equipment which is not firefighting equipment unless FCC has,


﻿- 15 -
subject to the recommendations of the review of FCC's organization
and finances to be carried out under Part D (2) of the Project,
establisheI a maintenance unit satisfactory to the Association and
appointed a Municipal Engineer to head the unit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve infra-
structure in Greater Freetown city, with particular regard to the
needs of the disadvantaged poor sectors of the city; and (ii)
strengthen the technical and financial capabilities of agencies
responsible for (A) operating and maintaining new urban facilities,
and (B) planning and managing future urban infrastructure investment
programs.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Urban Upgrading
(1)   Urban improvements in the following depr.ved areas of Freetown
city, namely, Krootown/Kroo Bay, Mabella, Susan's Bay, Congo
Market, Brookfields and Ginger Hall consisting of: (i) provi-
sion of communal facilities of water supply, toilets, solid
waste disposal, necessary access facilities and other minimal
upgrading measures for some of the said areas; and (ii)
construction of roads and footpaths, water supply, sanitary
facilities, drainage and more comprehensive range of upgrading
measures for the remaining areas, all as determined by the
Borrower and the Association.
(2)   Improvement of the following city center markets, namely,
Krootown  Road   Market,   Smythe  Street  Market,   Kennedy
Street/Kissy Road Market, Garrison Street Market, Guard Street
Market and Abattoir, and Bombay Street Market including
improvement of water supply, toilet and washing facilities,
access, garbage collection and disposal facilities, structural
repairs to market buildings and improvement of other public
health facilities.
(3)   Strengthening  and extending the solid waste management
operations of the Department of Health and Social Services
(DOHSS) including: (i) purchase for DOHSS of (A) 50 garbage
containers to be sited in the market and other areas to be
upgraded under the Project; and (B) two skip trucks and
necessary transport vehicles for DHOSS's monitoring unit; and
(ii) a study to review Freetown city's solid waste management


﻿- 17 -
system in order to recommend the long-term options necessary
for the proper operation and management of the system.
(4)   The carrying out of a program for the resettlement of all
persons to be displaced by the urban improvement and upgrading
works to be carried out under the Project.
Part B:     Rehabilitation/Upgrading of Access Roads
Provision of access to deprived areas and markets selected for
upgrading under the Project including: (i) repair and improvement of
carriageway and footway surfaces; (ii) construction or improvement
of adjacent roadside drains to obviate stormwater damage; (iii)
covering of existing open drains in areas of high pedestrian
traffic; and (iv) a comprehensive traffic management study to
facilitate informed decisions on future road projects and to assist
the formulation of a comprehensive traffic and transport policy.
Part C:     Water Supply
(1)   Optimizing the existing water supply system operated by the
Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC) and strengthening GVWC's
financial and management capabilities including: (i) the
carrying out of a leak detection and repair program to reduce
system losses; (ii) the installation of (A) a universal
metering program for all consumers; and (B) a routine
distribution expansion program; (iii) provision to GVWC of
communications   and   transport    facilities;   and    (iv)
strengthening GVWC's accounting and billing systems.
(2)   The carrying out of studies to: (i) assess water demand and
system  requirements;   (ii)  review   GVWC's  organization,
operations and finances; (iii) review GVWC's water tariff
structure; and (iv) recommend measures for improvement in
GVWC's management and operations.
Part D:     Institutional Support
(1)   The establishment of a Project Management and Coordination
Unit satisfactory to the Association (PMCU) including: (i)
purchase for PMCU of vehicles, office equipment and supplies;
and (ii) training of the staff of PMCU.


﻿- 18 -
(2)   Strengthening the management, operations and finances of
Freetown City Council (FCC) including: (i) a review of FCC's
organization and finances; (ii) establishment of a maintenance
capability within FCC's City Engineer's Department; (iii) the
employment for the FCC of a qualified and experienced
Municipal Engineer to be responsible for setting up and
managing a maintenance unit; (iv) the purchase for FCC of
equipment and facilities required for its maintenance unit and
emergency firefighting equipment; and (v) training of the
staff of FCC.
Part E:     Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance for the Project, including
technical assistance for: (i) engineering design and construction
supervision; (ii) strengthening FCC and the overall Project
management; (iii) preparation of a structure plan for Greater
Freetown; and (iv) the carrying out of (A) feasibility studies for
the rehabilitation and upgrading of infrastructure in other major
urban centers in Sierra Leone; and (B) a storm drainage and sewerage
study.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule into: (i) the SLRA Special Account
equivalent to $1,000,000; and (ii) the GVWC Special Account
equivalent to $600,000.
2.    Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)  For replenishment of a Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿-20 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such depcsits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For 'each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the   total unwithdrawn   amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 21 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the A isociation shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement
Part A:     General
1.    An organizational and financial review of FCC shall be carried
out under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and
completed by December 31, 1993.
2.    A structure plan for Greater Freetown shall be prepared under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and furnished to
the Association by September 30, 1994.
3.    A solid waste sector review for Greater Freetown shall be
carried out under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association
and completed by March 31, 1994.
4.    A traffic management study shall be carried out under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association and completed by
December 31, 1994.
5.    FCC shall: (i) subject to the recommendations of the review of
the organization and finances of FCC to be carried out under Part D
(2) of the Project, establish and thereafter maintain a Maintenance
Unit in a form and with functions and staffing satisfactory to the
Association;   and  (ii)  appoint   a  Municipal   Engineer  with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association to
head the Maintenance Unit.
6.    The Department of Health and Social Services (DOHSS) shall
ensure that: (i) the facilities provided to DOHSS under the Project
are properly operated and maintained; and (ii) waste collection and
disposal are efficiently carried out in the designated areas of the
Project in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Association.
7.    The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1993, complete to the
satisfaction of the Association and in accordance with the
relocation plan furnished to, and agreed with, the Association the
relocation of persons to be displaced by improvements to be carried
out under the Project in the Bombay Street Market and Kroo Bay areas
of Freetown.
8.    FCC shall carry out to the satisfaction of the Association and
in accordance with the plan furnished to, and agreed with, the


﻿- 23 -
Association the plan for involving residents of the Project area in
the discussion of Project issues.
9.    The Borrower shall conclude arrangements satisfactory to the
Association with GVWC for: (i) the conversion by the Borrower into
equity of certain debt obligations of GVWC to the Borrower; (ii) the
settlement in full no later than June 30, 1993 of debt obligations,
as of January 31, 1993, of the Borrower and its departments and
agencies to GVWC; and (iii) the servicing by GVWC of its debts to
third parties.
10.   The Borrower shall carry out, to the satisfaction of the
As-sociation, the plan agreed with the Association for the mitigation
of potential environmental harm during the course of Project
execution.
Part B:     Management and Operations of FCC's Maintenance Unit
1.    FCC shall cause its Maintenance Unit at all times to:
(a)   carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and
public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers;
(b)   operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and
other property and, from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and public utility practices; and
(c)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
2.    FCC shall cause its Maintenance Unit to maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
3.    FCC shall: (i) have its records, accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the


﻿- 24 -
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning said records,
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


