Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18663 CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$90 MILLION
AND A PROPOSED CREDIT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 21.4 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
ANNING VALLEY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 10, 1998
Rural Development & Natural Resources Sector Unit, EASRD
East Asia & Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of November 1998)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = $0.12
$1.00 = Y 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)  =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (mi2)  =  10.76 square feet
I cubic meter (m3 or cm)  =  35.31 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)  =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)  =  15 mu
1 ton (t)  =  1,000 kg
1 kilogram (kg)  =  2.2 pounds
I million watts (W)  =  1 MW (1 Megawatt)
1 million kilowatts (kW)  =  1 GW (1 Gigawatt)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP       Agricultural Development Project         kWh        kilowatt hour
BOF       Bureau of Finance                        MNDP    Minority Nationality Development Plan
GAS       Country Assistance Strategy              MOF       Ministry of Finance
CIF       Cost, Insurance and Freight              NCB       National Competitive Bidding
DHDC      Daqiao Hydroelectric Development         NPV       Net Present Value
Corporation                             O&M        Operation and Maintenance
DSRP      Dam Safety Review Panel                  PAP       Project Affected People
ERR       Economic Rate of Return                  PLG       Project Leading Group
FAO/CP   Food and Agriculture Organization/        PMO       Project Management Office
Cooperative Programme                   PPMO       Provincial Project Management Office
FMS       Financial Management Systems             RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
FRR       Financial Rate of Return                 SA        Special Account
HCO       Huangqiao Construction Office            SHSI      Sichuan Hydraulic Science Institute
liPS      Hydro Power Stations                     SOE       Statement of Expenses
ICAMA    Institute for Control of Agricultural     STC       Scientific and Technical Committee
Chemicals                               SWCB       Sichuan Water Conservancy Bureau
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
Vice President: Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director: Yukon Huang
Sector Manager: Geoffrey B. Fox
Task Team Leader: Rapeepun Jaisaard



China
Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators              2
B. Strategic Context                                                                2
1. Sector-reliated CAS goal supported by the project                         2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices        3
C. Project Description Summary                                                      3
1. Project components                                                        3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project             5
3. Benefits and target population                                            5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                             5
D. Project Rationale                                                                8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                 8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                  10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                          10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                               10
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                        11
1. Economic                                                                 11
2. Financial                                                                11
3. Technical                                                                 I 1
4. Institutional                                                             13
5. Social                                                                    13
6. Environmental assessment                                                  14
7. Participatory approach                                                   15
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                        16
1. Sustainability                                                           16
2. Critical risks                                                            16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                            17
G. Main Loan Conditions                                                            17
1. Effectiveness                                                            17
2. Other                                                                     17



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                     19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                    19
Annexes
Annex I       Project Design Summary                                         20
Annex 2       Detailed Project Description                                   22
Annex 3       Estimated Project Costs                                        40
Annex 4       Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary                                 43
Table I       Summary of Economic Analysis                                49
Table 2       Summary of Sensitivity Analysis                             50
Annex 5      Financial Summary                                              51
Annex 6       Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                      52
Table A       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                   56
Table Al      Consultant Selection Arrangements                           57
Table B       Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review         58
Table C       Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                 59
Table D       Estimated Disbursement Schedule                             60
Annex 7       Project Processing Budget and Schedule                        61
Annex 8       Documents in Project File                                      62
Annex 9       Statement of Loans and Credits                                 64
Annex 10      Country at a Glance                                            67
Maps
IBRD 29689   Location Map
IBRD 29690   Water Resources Development Component



China
Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia & Pacific
Rural Development & Natural Resources Sector Unit
Date: 11/16/98                                Task Team Leader: Rapeepun Jaisaard
Country Director: Yukon Huang                 Sector Manager: Geoffrey Fox
Project ID: CN-PE- 49665   Sector: Agriculture   Program Obj. Category: Environmentally Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan  Program of Targeted Intervention:     [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data               [x ] Loan     [x] Credit       [] Guarantee     [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$M/SDRM): Loan 90 Million plus Credit 30 Million SDR equivalent
Proposed terms:                          []  Multicurrency    [X] Single currency, specify USD
Loan: Grace period (years): 5 L/10 Cr    []  Standard Variable [   Fixed          [X]  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20 L/35 Cr
Commitment iFee: 0.75% L/0.5% Cr
Service charge: 0.75% Credit
Credit:
Financing plan (US$M):
Source                               Local            Foreign            Total
Government                               79.8                0.0            79.8
IBRD                                     26.4               63.6            90.0
IDA                                       0.0               30.0            30.0
Commercial Banks and Farmers             40.0                0.0            40.0
Total         146.2               93.6           239.8
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Responsible agency: Sichuan Provincial Planning Commission
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1999    2000    2001      2002    2003      2004      2005
Annual 10.8    15.6    24.0    24.0         24.0     15.6       6.0
Cumulative  10.8    26.4     50.4     74.4     98.4     114.0    120.0
Project implementation period: 5 years    Expected effectiveness date: 02/99  Expected closing date: 12/31/2004



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex l):
The project would support the Sichuan Government's policy of developing the Anning Valley. The
project would cover 15 counties within Liangshan Prefecture and Panzhihua Municipality. The area has
high potential for agricultural development, because there are large areas of marginal land whose
productivity could be markedly increased in the generally good climatic conditions. The project aims to
increase the production, productivity, marketability and value-added of agriculture, horticulture and
animal husbandry in the area, with the particular further objective of reducing the poverty of farmers in
remote areas. These objectives would be achieved through: (a) supplying additional and more reliable
water for irrigation (also industrial and urban use), (b) developing land and technology for grain and
vegetable production, (c) developing marginal hilly land for fruit orchards, (d) improving sericulture
technology, (e) improving farmer income by introducing new varieties and technologies for livestock
production and (f) adding value to crop and livestock production through processing. The project would
foster the effective use of existing natural resources, promote the development of mountainous areas,
encourage the participation of women in production and improve the environment and reduce soil
erosion.
Key performance indicators are as follows: (a) area of marginal land developed and supplied with
irrigation water, (b) increased yield and production of crop and livestock, (c) higher cropping intensity
index, (d) more varieties and forms of crop and livestock produced and processed according to market
demand, (e) increase in average household income, (f) reduction of rural unemployment, (g) effective
management of the river basin committee, (h) increase in area of land terracing and fruit tree planting, (i)
percentage of poor minority households and (j) percentage of women participating in the project.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16321-CHA    Date of latest full CAS discussion: March 18, 1997
Progress Report was discussed May 28, 1998
The proposed project would be consistent with the Bank's overall assistance strategy for China, which
includes the intensification of agricultural development, while at the same time addressing regional
disparities and environmental sustainability. It specifically would address two of the four principal focus
areas for Bank assistance: poverty alleviation and environmental protection. The project also would
respond positively to the assistance strategy identified in the 1997 CAS to accelerate commercialization
of agriculture, develop new income generating activities and promote better utilization of marginal
agricultural lands through the introduction of improved, sustainable production technologies.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
*  Productive land for agriculture production is limited due to population increase and urbanization.
Government strategy to ameliorate this is to develop marginal land for agriculture. However, the
development of marginal land requires significant investment.
*  Development of water resources is important for both irrigation and urban uses. Irrigation is an
important input to increasing agriculture productivity. Improved water resource management is
crucial for equitable water allocation. It is important to introduce adequate procedures and properly
fund operation and maintenance of water delivery infrastructure facilities.  Water charges for
irrigation and bulk supplies for municipal consumption, industrial uses and electricity generation must
be high enough to pay for recurrent O&M costs and where possible a reasonable portion of the capital
cost.



Page 3
*  Raising agricultural productivity in grain and livestock is essential to meet increased demands for
food and feed emanating from population and income growth. Research and extension for developing
and disseminating appropriate technologies and new breeds is important but largely non-self-funding
and, due to the operation of actual budget allocations, it is seriously underfunded.
*  Incremental small ruminant production can significantly increase farm income, especially for poor
families. However, over-extended grazing can bring about soil degradation. In the project area, there
is very limited understanding of, or support for, grazing monitoring and pasture development.
*  The existence of poor areas and wide regional income disparities are major social issues. The
government has special programs to target poor populations in remote regions, but funding is limited
for those programs. Integrated agricultural development projects have therefore been the primary
approach.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
*  Support the reclamation and development of marginal lands and introduce high value crops and
improved technologies to justify the cost of development.
*  Reduce the infrastructural constraints in the supply of water for multi-sectoral uses and bring about
appropriate organizational arrangements for river basin water resources planning and management;
improve operation and maintenance programs and develop a system to review and update water
charges.
*  Increase the productivity of currently cultivated lands through reliable, adequate water supply and
timely application of improved agricultural inputs, including new seed and seedling varieties.
*  Support agricultural and livestock research and extension adapted to the project area.
*  Increase the quality and the quantity of livestock production and introduce new technologies for
increasing feed production, enhancing the nutritional value of feed and promoting sustainable
pastures.
*  Increase the value-added of farm output by investing in agro-processing facilities and technologies.
*  Ensure that there are forward and backward linkages among the production, processing and marketing
of all agricultural production components under the project.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component              Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)   financing
(a) Water Resource Development    Physical        105.5       44       47.2       43
(b) Crop Development            Physical           35.6       15       15.6        13
(c) Orchard Development         Physical           36.3       15       22.8        18
(d) Sericulture Development     Physical           26.6       11       12.3       10
(e) Livestock Development       Physical           13.3        6        8.5        6
(f) Agro-Processing             Credit             12.7        5        7.0        6
(g) Institutional Strengthening  Inst.              8.9        4        5.7        5
Building
(h) Front-end-Fee               Financial           0.9                 0.9
_  Total           239.8     100       120.0       50



Page 4
Component Description
(a) Water Resource Development would have three subcomponents. The Manshuiwan subcomponent
would comprise the construction of a weir across the Anning River and trunk, main and branch canals,
which would provide water for irrigation of 14,400 ha, for domestic and industrial use and for generation
of electricity. An 18 MW hydroelectric power station would also be constructed under the project. The
Huangqiao subcomponent would construct a 68 m high dam and canal systems for irrigation of 2,680 ha.
It would supply water to two small hydroelectric power stations with a total installed capacity of 640 kW.
The Shengli subcomponent would complete the irrigation system, which would supply water from an
existing reservoir for irrigation of 2,952 ha.
(b) Crop Development is designed to help the Sichuan Provincial Government implement its high
priority objectives of increasing provincial food production and improving the lagging status of
Liangshan Prefecture and Panzhihua Municipality. The focus is on the main staple grain crops (rice,
wheat, and maize) and on potatoes and vegetables. The major constraints to increased production are the
shortage of suitable land for these crops and a number of other inter-linked factors, such as lack of
quality, improved-variety seeds and inadequate extension services. The crop development component is
therefore an effort to rectify this situation through a variety of interventions, including reclamation of new
land (4,700 ha), improvement of existing land (12,800 ha), multiplication of improved seed varieties
(2,560 ha), improvements to the extension service, farmer and staff training, and research.
(c) Orchard Development aims at increasing the quality and number of varieties of high quality fruit in
the project area. Development of quality fruit has been given a high priority by the Sichuan Provincial
government due to the income-generation capacity of orchards, their potential for export to other areas of
China, and their reduction of soil erosion commonly found in the Anning River Valley on sloping lands.
The project would support the development of marginal land and the improvement of existing orchards.
It would invest in the establishment 19.5 ha of budwood gardens and nurseries, (b) the development of
1,745 ha of new pomegranate, mango and longan orchards, (c) the rehabilitation of 300 ha of
pomegranate orchards, (d) the construction of simple post-harvesting facilities and (e) support of training,
research and extension.
(d) Sericulture Development aims at increasing and improving the quality and productivity of silk
production by introducing new sericulture production and processing technologies to mulberry and cocoon-
production households and investing in silkmoth egg grainages, young silk worm rearing centers, silk cocoon
drying centers and silk reeling mills. This component has been designed to be market-driven, and project
investments would be closely matched to the identified market for raw silk and cocoons. Value-added
processing would be undertaken within the project area, and most cocoons produced under the project would
be reeled into raw silk. Silk reeling mills would be the main point for business management. The
management of the mills would identify the cocoon production areas and collection centers to be developed
for their processing requirements. Most dry cocoons will be used by the mills, with a small percentage
exported to other provinces.
(e) Livestock Development aims to increase the income of poor farm and minority-nationality
households through improved livestock production. It would increase the production and productivity of
sheep, goats, and ducks by improving breeds, supporting pasture and feed development, and
strengthening animal husbandry and veterinary services. It would introduce rabbits as an income-
generating activity for women.
(f) The Agro-Processing component is designed to provide essential linkages among the production,
processing and marketing of farm produce and cash crops generated under the project. Project enterprises
would comprise a rice processing mill, a seed processing plant, a new wholesale market, and three
ventilated fruit stores. Two of these, the rice mill and the seed processing plant, would be part of a new grain-
products business park to be set up on the outskirts of Xichang. A private sector food processing and



Page 5
marketing company with a wide distribution network in southern China would take a majority shareholding
in both the seed mill and the rice mill.
(g) The Institutional Development component would provide support to an Anning River Basin Water
Resource Management Committee, invest in overall project management and strengthen institutional
arrangements for agricultural and livestock research, extension services and environmental protection.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support (a) institutional reform aimed at developing more effective water resources
management systems, (b) adaptive research programs in crops, fruit and livestock in response to present
and future problems and local needs, and (c) enterprise to move to commercial operations and pricing.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: The project's major benefits are expected to be incremental agricultural production and
increased rural incomes. They are to be generated from: (i) an increased and more reliable supply of
water, which would irrigate 16,650 ha of existing fields, develop about 3,150 ha of marginal land, provide
396,000 m3/day of raw water for domestic and industrial use and provide 110,000 MWh of electricity per
annum; (ii) incremental production of 92,160 tons of grain, 71,250 tons of vegetables and significant
quantities of other crops, through higher yields and area expansion; (iii) incremental production of 41,525
tons of high-quality fresh fruit; (iv) incremental production of 21,600 tons of meat (beef, mutton, goat and
duck) and associated products (wool, hides, etc.); and (v) 560 t/y of reeled raw silks and extra 486 t/y of
dried cocoon for export. Additional income would come from value-added from rice milling, fruit
grading and silk reeling. Other benefits would be: (i) the positive impact of the project activities on the
environment in the project area; (ii) improved planning and management of Anning River Basin water
resources; (iii) demonstrated effective commercial agriculture where production depends on market
demand; and (iv) improved research and extension.
Target Population: The project would directly increase the incomes and employment of about 264,700
families and indirectly benefit over 0.5 million additional households. Newly reclaimed land would be
allocated to poor farmers in Liangshan and Panzhihua. Their average income is now Y 880 ($106) and
would be increased to Y 1,825 ($220) in Liangshan and Y 1,892 ($228) in Panzhihua. Among the project
households, 26,225 are Yi and other minority households who are now living below the poverty line. Of
these households, 47 percent have an annual income below Y 500 ($60) and 27 percent have an annual
income below Y 380 ($46). Only 26 percent on the target group have incomes close to or above the
already low average income in the project area. Eighty percent of small-livestock, vegetable, and silk-
cocoon production would be carried out by women.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Period of Implementation. The project would be implemented over a five-year period from FY99-04.
Project effectiveness is expected to be by February 1, 1999 and the mid-term review would be by June 30,
2001. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003 and the closing date would be
December 31, 2004.
Institutional and implementation arrangements. The integrated agricultural development approach
will be applied to this project. The project would be managed by the Government of Sichuan Province
through Project Leading Groups (PLGs) and Project Management Offices (PMOs) at provincial,
prefecture and county levels. The PLGs, which would include representatives of technical bureaus, the
Women's Federation, the Poverty Alleviation Office and the Nationalities Affairs Commission would
provide guidance to the PMOs on project coordination and the resolution of project implementation



Page 6
issues. Representatives from ACWFs and the task force for minority nationality development would
assist the township PMOs and the village committees in selecting the project beneficiaries and monitoring
the participation of poor farmers, minority people and women. The Scientific and Technical Committee
(STC) set up under the project would give overall guidance on the technical aspects of the agricultural,
horticultural and livestock production components. This would ensure that appropriate technologies
would be used in both development and production and that the quality of crop, fruit and livestock
production is maintained.
The Anning River Basin Water Resource Management Committee established under the project would be
charged with overseeing water allocation strategy for the basin. This strategy would be underpinned by
spatial plans, pricing policies, water rights systems and real-time water management operations. The
committee would be designed to allow a wide range of stakeholders to participate in the water allocation
and water management decision-making process. The Manshuiwan subcomponent under the project
would be implemented by the Daqiao Hydroelectric Development Corporation (DHDC) which is owned
by the Provincial Water Resources Bureau. Under the project DHDC would be responsible for preparing
and executing tenders for civil works, goods and services and for installing plant and equipment. It would
retain the Sichuan Water Conservancy and Hydroelectric Design and Research Institute of the Water
Conservancy Bureau of Chengdu to complete designs, execute design changes. The on-site engineer for
construction supervision would be contracted upon completion of a competitive selection process in
which at least four qualified firms/institutes will participate. DHDC would also be responsible for
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of infrastructure and facilities following project implementation.
The Hydroelectric Bureau of Panzhihua City would be responsible for the implementation of the Shengli
sub-component. It would select and employ, through a competitive process, an enterprise to assist with
construction supervision, contract administration and quality control of the major works, including main
and branch canals and lateral canals serving areas larger than 10,000 mu (667 ha). The Hydroelectric and
Farm Machinery Bureau of Renhe District would be responsible for the implementation of the subbranch
or lateral canals.  It would coordinate the design and implementation of these works with the
Hydroelectric Bureau of Panzhihua and the beneficiaries. These works would be constructed with the
participation of the farming communities benefiting from the provision of irrigation. Construction of
field ditches would be undertaken entirely by farmers.
The Huangqiao Construction Office (HCO) has been established for the Huangqiao Subcomponent. It
would oversee the implementation of the major infrastructure works, including the dam and branch
canals.  The Hydroelectric Bureau of Miyi County would have primary responsibility for the
implementation of laterals and sublaterals. The HCO would be staffed with qualified personnel from
relevant county offices. The Hydropower Bureau of Miyi County would be the lead agency. HCO would
retain the Sichuan Hydraulic Science Institute (SHSI) to oversee design changes during construction and
select and contract an independent engineering enterprise as the "engineer" for the construction of works.
The laterals and sublaterals would be constructed with significant participation (40-50 percent of the cost)
of the farming communities benefiting from the provision of irrigation. Construction of field ditches
would be undertaken entirely by farmers.
The Huangqiao Reservoir Management Bureau would be responsible for the O&M of the infrastructure
facilities. It initial activities would be the preparation of O&M procedures, manuals, organizational
structures and staffing. A management committee of representatives of the benefiting villages and
townships would also be established to work closely with the Management Bureau. It will have a key
role in preparing annual water allocation plans and in overseeing the collection and spending of the water
charges. In addition, committee for managing O&M would be established at township and village levels.
Those committees would be responsible for planning and implementing the O&M activities of the
sublaterals and ditches. They would contract for irrigation water supplies each year in accordance with
the demand projections and water charges sanctioned by the Panzhihua City.



Page 7
The land improvement for crop, fruit and vegetables would be planned, designed and implemented bythe
Bureau of Agriculture in Liangshan and Panzhihua for the grain subcomponent and the Vegetable Office
in the Municipal Administration of Panzhihua for the vegetable subcomponent. The livestock
development component would be implemented by the township government and village committees in
cooperation with the Animal Husbandry Bureau. The Prefecture and County Animal Husbandry Bureaus
would provide technical guidelines and support to the local governments. Under the township government,
there will be village implementation teams who will work closely with village heads and farmers. The
implementation of the crop, fruit and livestock sub-components would strictly followed the agreed technical
standards and the minority nationality development plan.
Agro-processing plants would be managed on a commercial basis with managers responsible for profit
and loss. All activities related to project construction, processing, storage and marketing would be the
responsibility of the concerned processing company. Each company would also be responsible for the day to
day running of the project, and for reporting progress to the PPMO. The manager of the processing company
would have total authority over the relevant project component, and full responsibility for it's successful
implementation. The PMO would be a facilitating agency, providing the Processing Companies with access
to all relevant Government agencies, and reporting project progress to the PPMO. The above project
management structure is already in place.
Financial Arrangements
Financial Management.  The Financial Management Systems (FMS) to be used during project
implementation were reviewed and found to be acceptable. The Provincial Bureau of Finance has been
managing several World Bank projects in Sichuan Province, and regulations and procedures are
consequently already in place. BOF is using the guidelines the Ministry of Finance developed in
cooperation with the World Bank for financial management, accounting control, financial reports. The
PMOs at provincial, prefecture/municipal and county levels have qualified and experienced staff to
produce reliable accounts on project activities in a timely manner. The FMS indicated (a) a clear lines of
authority and responsibility between the PMO Chief, the Finance Division Chief, project accountants,
disbursement officers and cashiers; (b) clear procedures for financial management, accounting control and
auditing; (c) clear procedures for special account management; (d) standardized procedures for filing
supporting documents for Statements of Expenditures; and (e) systematic record keeping on the source
and use of counterpart funds. These procedures are found to be acceptable. The PMO have also prepared
financial reporting tables to be used at all levels as follows: (a) summary of sources and uses of funds; (b)
physical and financial completion by component; (c) project expenditure forecast; (d) special account
reconciliation statement; (e) statement of the withdrawals from the Loan/Credit; (f) procurement of goods,
works and services; (g) implementation of training programs; (h) cost variance report; (i) unit variance
report; (j)consultants (for contracts requiring prior review); (k) expenditures report for consultants; and (I)
special account statement. These tables could be found in the PIP. Since financial management system is
in place and staff has extensive experience from implementing the existing Sichuan ADP, the action plan
for this respect has not been developed.
On-Lending. The following on-lending arrangements have been agreed. MOF would on-lend the Loan to
the Sichuan Government on terms and conditions as received from the Bank (5 year grace and 20 year
maturity). MOF would on-lend the Credit on the same terms and conditions as received from IDA, with the
exception that the grace period would be reduced to 5 years and maturity period to 17 years, in line with
MOF's expectation that it will soon be asked by IDA to accelerate repayments. The Provincial Government
indicated that it will on-lend these funds to the prefecture and municipal governments at the terms and rates
received from MOF. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the prefecture and municipal
governments.
Auditing. Project account would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank.
In the PMOs at all levels, there will be a financial unit, which will be responsible for accounting operation
of the projects and keep all invoices, receipts and accounting documents and subject to the auditing



Page 8
agencies at same or higher levels. The Sichuan Provincial Audit Administration would be responsible for
auditing of all accounts of the projects and submit the audit report to the Bank. The audit report would be
submitted to the Bank with in six months in the following fiscal year. The audited accounts will include
the detailed statements of the amount drawn from the account of Loan/Credit against the statement of
expenditures and the comments made by the auditors on whether the amount drawn for the rational
expenditure could be reimbursed by the Bank.
Supervision, Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting. The project management offices at all levels
would monitor project progress. The task force for minority nationality and staff from the Women's
Federation would participate in this effort. Regular supervision would be carried out to assess the
physical, technical and financial aspects of the project. Monitoring indicators including performance
indicators (as in the PIP) would be used to evaluate progress under the project. A progress report would
be produced and sent to the Bank Group every six months, by September I of each year for the preceding
January-June and by March I for the preceding July-December. A mid-term review would be undertaken
by June 30, 2001. The PPMO would make broad assessment of the project implementation in a draft
project completion report to be submitted to the Bank Group no later than six months following the
completion of the Credit/Loan disbursement.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a Various alternative technical solutions under the Water Resources Component for the location of the
Manshuiwan headwork's and major hydraulic structures on the proposed water supply systems of the
three subcomponents have been evaluated technically and economically.  The most attractive
solutions were selected.
.  Initial project proposals consisted of independently planned and loosely structured project
components. This project design alternative was rejected. Instead an approach was adopted that
integrates infrastructure investment, land development, and improvement of agricultural support
services.
.  Several agro-processing subcomponents were rejected due to unclear linkages between the production
and marketing, including lack of market demand. To ensure that production conforms to demand, the
approach adopted for this project is to identify market demand first and then specify production and
processing activities to meet it.
*  Proposed feedmill construction was considered non-essential due to the number of existing
commercial mills in the project area, and the proposed investments were consequently rejected.
* The alternative of introducing sheep raising as a substitute for goat production in fragile mountainous
areas with the objective of reducing soil erosion was selected.



Page 9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                   Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
To increase agricultural production  Sichuan Agricultural       S              S
through the expansion of irrigated land  Development Project
and crop diversification, to expand soil  (Cr. 241 1-CHA)
conservation measures to improve
productivity of eroded areas.
To increase farmer incomes and     Henan Agriculture            S               S
agricultural production through    Development Project
provision of additional irrigation water, (Cr. 2242-CHA)
alleviation of soil salinity and water-
logging, development of wasteland for
agriculture and horticulture, and
investment in agro-processing
facilities.
To increase agricultural production and  Tarim Basin Project I  S               S
rural incomes through the improvement (Cr. 2294-CHA)
and expansion of irrigation and
drainage facilities, the development of  Closed 12/31/1997
unutilized wastelands, the
strengthening of agriculture and
livestock support services, and the
restoration of the natural ecology.
To ameliorate poverty and increase  Irrigated Agriculture      HS              HS
agricultural production by         Intensification Project
rehabilitating and expanding existing   (Cr. 2256-CHA and Ln.
irrigation and drainage systems and  3337-CHA)
strengthening agricultural support
services.                          Closed 06/30/1997
To increase agricultural production,  Songliao Plain            S               S
farm incomes., rural employment and    Agricultural
women's participation by increasing    Development Project
the production, productivity and   (Cr. 2571-CHA)
marketability of crop, fruit, livestock
and aquatic pioducts.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)



Page 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank has heavily supported agricultural development, water resources and irrigation and drainage
development projects in China. The outcome of these projects has generally been successful, with
efficient implementation, limited time and cost overruns despite periods of sharp price escalation, and
rates of return that have equaled or exceeded appraisal estimates.
Key lessons learned from completed and ongoing ADP and water resources projects adopted during the
preparation of this project are as follows: (a) seek active participation of beneficiaries from the initial
project formulation stage, maintain their interest in order to increase the effectiveness of project
implementation; (b) agree on detailed organizational and staffing arrangements and detailed job
descriptions before implementation; (c) establish baseline data of key perfornance indicators for a]l
components; (d) plan to provide training to the provincial and local technical staff participating in the
project; (e) ensure availability of local funds and counterpart funding plans; (f) include adequate cost
recovery from beneficiaries of productive project investments in the design of the project; and (g) focus
on resolving procurement and disbursement issues during the initial supervision missions.
Key lessons learned from other projects for the agro-processing component which are reflected in the
design of this project are as follows: (a) adopt demand-driven approach instead of the supply-driven
approach proposed; (b) use technically advanced equipment and processes to increase efficiency and
value-added to final products; (c) adopt commercial operations with improved structure and management;
(d) expand facilities at existing agro-processing sites, a far more successful practice than setting up new
processing companies; (e) locate the processing plants near to the production base; (f) use national
standards for quality of processing buildings and review adherence regularly during construction; and (g)
use specialist assistance to prepare technical specifications for processing equipment to ensure that
processing lines are procured as a single procurement package with supplies of spare parts, training and
after-sale services incorporated.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
A clear indication of the borrower's commitment is demonstrated by: (a) the spending of substantial local
funds on the construction of dams, in particular, on the completed Shengli Dam and the ongoing,
relatively large Daqiao Storage Facility on the upstream stem of the Anning River, (b) the preparation of a
water resources development plan for the entire Anning River Basin in 1991, (c) completed feasibility
studies of high priority water resources development subprojects (these studies provide the basis for
optimizing the use of the available water resources in the Anning River Basin), (d) the recent approval of
this project by the State Council, (e) the establishment of project leading groups and project management
offices at all levels and the provision of budget for project preparation, and (f) the commitment in
governmental budgets for counterpart funding for project implementation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Because of its involvement and cross-Sectoral experience with ADPs, hydro-power, water resources and
water supply operations, the Bank has expertise to guide China with planning and implementing measures
to: (i) establish an integrated water resources management system; (ii) modernize existing infrastructure;
(iii) introduce new and appropriate production and processing technologies; (iv) introduce new crop
varieties and cultivation practices; and (v) protect and improve the environment. Bank participation in the
Anning Valley ADP will add value to the Borrower's efforts to: (i) institute reforms aimed at developing
more effective water resources management systems; (ii) promote efficient use of limited water and land
resources, greater crop diversification and increased agricultural production; (iii) introduce appropriate
new production and processing technologies; (iv) promote better production and processing management
to enable producers to respond to market demand; (v) provide knowledge of commercial agricultural
production and marketing; and (vi) introduce environmental standards in the design of agro-processing
plants through the development of effluent monitoring systems and environmental protection practices.



Page I I
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=YI.6 billion; ERR= 25%
Economic analyses have been carried out for all components (water resource, crop, orchard, livestock,
sericulture and agro-processing) and for the project as a whole. The results of the analyses show that the
project has acceptable economic rates of return (ERR) for all subcomponents and for the project as a
whole.  The ERR for the Water Resource Development Component is estimated at 17 percent.
Investment in grain and vegetable development shows a high ERR of 39 percent. The project would
enable substantial incremental yield and production from double cropping and the high value of
vegetables. Investment in orchard development has an ERR of 30 percent, lower than for grain
production, since the initial investment in orchard development is higher than for grain and benefits are
delayed. This ERR is similar to those for comparable investments in orchards in other projects. The
livestock ERR is estimated at 19 percent, a rate which is lower than for crop and orchard development but
acceptable for household livestock production. Sericulture and other agro-processing components show
ERRs of 29 percent and 20 percent, respectively. The project as a whole has an ERR of 25 percent and
the net present value at a 12 percent discount rate of Y 1.6 billion.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV = Y 0.8 billion; FRR = 18 %
Financial analysis was carried out based on one hectare models for crop and orchard development
components. A livestock model was used for the livestock development component. The results of the
analysis for subcomponents show FRRs ranged from 26 to 52 percent. The Manshuiwan, Huangqiao and
Shengli subcomponents in the Water Resource Development component have FRRs of 14, 17 and 27
percent, respectively. The financial analysis for crop production shows the FRR of 42 percent for
Liangshan and 34 percent for Panzhihua. Investment in land improvement yields higher FRR than
investment in new reclaimed land in both project prefectures. The orchard development component
shows FRRs ranging from 19 percent to 49 percent for new orchards and 61 percent for rehabilitated
orchards. These FRRs vary with these ranges, depending on type of fruit, irrigation mode and difficulty
of proposed land development. The variation in benefits also depends on the type of fruit; for example,
mango has lower benefits than longan and pomegranate. In livestock development component, the
analysis shows high FRRs for wool sheep (45 percent) and rabbits (37 percent), due to the high value of
the products. The FRR for goat production is estimated at 42 percent, higher than most of the other
livestock operations, due to the low cost of production. Financial analysis has been undertaken for
cocoon production sub-component; the FRRs for silkworm egg grainage, young worm households, and
cocoon raising households are estimated at 22, 18 and 33 percent, respectively. Financial analysis has
been undertaken for each enterprise in the sericulture and agro-processing components. The FRRs ranged
from 19 to 49 percent. Total FRR for the project is estimated at 18 percent.
Fiscal impact: The total incremental recurrent budget required to keep the project activities in operations
at the same level of efficiency following the loan disbursement period is estimated at Y 122 million
(US$14.7 million) annually. Government revenue will increase by Y 175 million (US$21 million) mainly
from four different sources; (i) increased water charges, (ii) agricultural tax on incremental agricultural
production; (iii) incremental community development fund and (iv) land lease taxes collected on all
improved land and reclaimed land. The impact would be positive at Y 53 million (US$6.4 million)
3. Technical:
The technical features of the water resources development component have been planned and designed
based on sound engineering standards and procedures. The planning, design, and formulation of plans for
construction, operation and maintenance of the infrastructure to be realized under the project have
benefited from the participation of project beneficiaries. The design and implementation of the lower-end
irrigation delivery systems will be fine-tuned during project implementation, and assurances will be



Page 12
obtained that the sublateral and tertiary system requirements adequately reflect organizational
arrangements at the township and village levels. Technical assessments of the water resources component
have focused on the following aspects: (i) cost effectiveness of the proposed technical solutions for
providing water for irrigation and other uses; (ii) sufficiency of water supply and demand analysis to
ensure adequate availability of water for proposed crops and areas to be irrigated and for planned
industrial and domestic use; (iii) adequacy of planning and design parameters of the irrigation and
drainage systems, including the lateral and tertiary canal systems, which aim at achieving equitable water
distribution and efficient water use; (iv) appropriateness of land improvement and on-farm works to allow
adoption of modem, efficient on-farm water management methodologies and agricultural practices; (v)
full review of safety aspects of existing dams and those under construction and planned, in view of their
key role in supplying water to the project areas; (vi) effective institutional arrangements to guide water
resources management in the Anning River Basin; and (vii) adequacy of operation and maintenance
arrangements and appropriateness of water charges.  Those aspects were reviewed during project
preparation and found to be technically sound. Well qualified and experienced technical staff of the
implementing agencies, together with technical assistant from third parties and the Bank, would continue
to assess the adequacy of technical aspects during project implementation.
The Sichuan Water Conservancy Bureau (SWCB) appointed a Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP) of experts
in 1997. The DSRP undertook the first review of existing Shengli, Yuejin, and Pingdi dams on the Yizi river,
the Daqiao dam under construction on the Anning river, the planned Huangqiao dam on the Caochang river
in Miyi county and the planned Manshuiwan weir on the Anning river in Mianning county in
October/November 1997.  The review concluded that existing dams were designed and constructed
satisfactorily. However, a monitoring program and a number of remedial measures were recommended for
the existing Yuejin and Pingdi dams built in cascade on the Yizi river upstream of the Shengli dam. These
measures would be implemented under the project. No major issues were identified with the ongoing
construction of the Daqiao dam and the planning and design features of the Huangqiao dam.
The project would draw on the crop, fruit and livestock production skills and experience of the relevant
technical bureaus and research institutes. Crop technologies would be based on new improved varieties,
efficient use of inputs, balanced use of chemicals and natural nutrients to improve soil fertility, optimum use
of land and water, and introduction of double and relay cropping. Horticulture technologies would be based
on the experience of the recently completed Mid-Yangtze ADP. This experience pertains to the introduction
of new fruit varieties, virus-free seedlings, standards for the development of marginal lands into quality
orchards, inter-cropping among the fruit trees, tree maintenance, fruit harvesting, and post-harvest
technologies. The livestock component would emphasize new improved livestock breeds (specifically for
meat or wool or both), feed and pasture development, Al technology, and veterinary services. It would also
incorporate the successful design used by Heifer Project International. The Scientific and Technical
Committee (STC) set up under the project would set technical standards, review proposals for the project,
coordinate the technical aspects of the project, resolve technical problems, and provide quality control.
The implementation of the crop, fruit, sericulture, and livestock components would strictly follow these
agreed technical standards.
New production and processing technologies would be introduced under the sericulture and agro-processing
components. In the sericulture component, the project aims to improve quality of silk from grade 2A to grade
4A by introducing improved production and processing technologies at all levels starting from mulberry
production, silk moth egg production, young silk worm rearing, cocoon production at the household level to
drying facilities and technologies, and silk reeling technologies. Other agro-processing technologies would
be based on efficient equipment and improved grades and standards, both of which would produce high
quality final products for the high end of the markets and for export.



Page 13
4. Institutional:
(a) Executing agencies
The Provincial Government, through the Provincial Project Management Office (PPMO) in the Planning
Commission, the Provincial Water Conservancy Bureau and the Provincial Technical Bureaus, would
oversee the implementation of all the components under the project. These provincial agencies have
extensive experience with planning, design and implementation of large-scale projects. They also have
experience in implementing the other World Bank projects in the province.
(b) Project management
The PPMO has extensive experience in managing internationally-financed projects. Staff is well trained
and the office is well equipped to manage this project. The PPMO has separate units to handle planning
and management, procurement, disbursement, and monitoring and evaluation. The Liangshan Prefecture
and the Panzhihua Municipality have recently set up corresponding units in their project management
offices. The county PMOs has established offices with staff from county planning, finance and technical
bureaus. The county PMOs will oversee project implementation at the township and village levels. Staff
from the PPMO would train staff from the prefecture and county units.
The water resources development component in Liangshan would be implemented by the Daqiao
Hydroelectric Development Corporation (DHDC) which was established in 1996 specifically for
managing the implementation, operation and maintenance of the Daqiao Dam and associated facilities for
irrigation, power and bulk water supply. The DHDC is appropriately staffed with engineers and officials
from the Water Conservancy Bureau, who have extensive experience in constructing dams, managing
water distribution and overseeing operation and maintenance of facilities. It would also coordinate
project matters with local government agencies and project beneficiaries. The Huangqiao and Shengli
subcomponents would be implemented by county water resource agencies, with the participation of other
relevant local government agencies including the Management Committees, who will represent water
users.
J. Social:
(a) Resettlement. The water resources development component under the project entails acquisition of
land for the construction of the Manshuiwan weir and canal system and the Huangqiao dam and the
resettlement of those affected. To mitigate the adverse impacts of these project works, comprehensive
detai!ed actions plans have been prepared for the resettlement and compensation requirements of those
affected under both subcomponents. The main objective of the resulting Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
is that both resettlers and host population affected will not be disadvantaged by the project and their living
standard be improved or at least restored. Resettled families will be moved to locations benefiting from
the project, where their house and amenities will be improved. Their new earning potential will be at
least as good as previously and income losses during the transition period will be compensated for. The
RAPs, which tlhe Bank found satisfactory, include: (i) detailed surveys results of people and assets
affected; (ii) legal framework for land acquisition and compensation requirements; (iii) institutional
arrangements; (iv) cost details and budget requirements; (v) implementation schedule; (vi) participation,
consultation and grievance procedures; and (vii) monitoring and evaluation by the project and an
independent external group.
Involuntary resettlement is required because of the construction of the weir and main canal systems under
the Manshuiwan subcomponent in Mianning County and the Huangqiao dam in Miyi County. Detailed
surveys carried out by local governments determined that 1,506 people are required to be resettled: 874
under Manshuiwan and 632 under the Huangqiao subcomponents. In addition 1,132 people under the
Manshuiwan subcomponent are to lose land needed for the construction of works. The total cost of
resettlement amounts to Yuan 65.1 million (Yuan 53.0 million under Manshuiwan and Yuan 12.1 million



Page 14
under the Huangqiao subcomponents). The provincial and local governments will fully fund the
resettlement costs. The Provincial PMO will oversee the monitoring of the implementation of the agreed
RAPs. Actual monitoring will be carried out by local government agencies, who will prepare periodic
progress reports on physical and financial progress.  In addition, independent monitoring of the
implementation of both RAPs will be carried out by the Chengdu Hydroelectric Investigation and Design
Institute of the Ministry of Energy of the Central Government. They will review physical progress,
Project Affected People (PAP) livelihood restoration, PAP participation, grievances and effectiveness of
the grievance procedures, and proposed measures for improvement. A detailed Resettlement Action Plan
is in the Project File.
Land used for the development of agro-processing plants would be commercial development land, which
does not currently have any occupants or dwellings. In the event that processing sites would be located
on farmland, crop compensation and relocation expenses would be paid to farmers, with the amount
dependent, in line with local regulations, on the value of the current crop being produced. If there is any
additional resettlement required under the project, it would be carried out according to a Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP) approved by the Bank and designed on the basis of policies and principles acceptable
to the Bank.
(b) Social Impact. The project would aim to improve the quality of life of poor households in the
project area, with special emphasis on minority communities and women. The criteria for selecting
project beneficiaries were established. The duration of land use right were developed. During project
implementation, special attention would be paid to ensuring that benefits are directed towards these
households. (See Project Implementation Plan)
(c) Social Assessment. A social assessment was undertaken in the proposed project. In 1996, the 15
administrative areas included in the Project had a total population of 3.5 million (1.62 million in
Liangshan Prefecture and 0.88 million in Panzhihua Municipality). The minority population accounted
for 35 percent in Liangshan and 12 percent in Panzhihua. The majority of the minority population are Yi
who live in remote areas. The Yi's methods of production are crude, their standard of living is very low,
and to a large extent they still preserve their traditional way of life, which separate them from the
surrounding Han. Even so, the economy of the Yi areas is beginning to move from a subsistence to a
commodity economy and from a very simple to a more complex economic organization. The Project
targets the Yi as one of the groups that derive important benefits from the project. They would be
beneficiaries of the crop and livestock components, which according to the assessment, are socially and
culturally compatible with their existing way of life. Participation in the project would provide the
financial benefits and improve the social and political status of this minority. A summary of the Social
Assessment is in the Project File.
(d) The Minority Nationality Development Plan (MNDP) provides comprehensive information on the
development programs to be carried out under the project and also provides information on government
programs assisting the poor and minorities. The project would ensure that a high proportion of minority
nationality people would be selected to be project participants. They will benefit from the project's
investment and the technical, market and social training provided as project activities. The programs
would be specially designed to take into consideration their social, cultural and language situation. The
existing community development programs, financed by the government, which include education (Yi
language, adult literacy), water supply and health and have been carried out in the project area since 1987,
are complimentary to the project's programs, and will be continued for several more years (at least until
2002). These will greatly help the development of this poor area. Assurances were sought at negotiations
that the MNDP be implemented under the project. The MNDP can be found in the Project File.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   [ ] A   [X] B  [] C
In general terms the project is expected to make a positive impact on the environment. It would make an
important contribution to improved sanitary conditions by providing good quality water to rural and urban



Page 15
areas. Irrigation water would be delivered to currently rainfed areas and the marginal lands that would be
reclaimed under the project. The supply of irrigation water would reduce the ill effects of droughts. Fruit
tree planting would help to reduce soil erosion and maintain watersheds. Terracing and contouring of
land for orchardl development would also reduce soil erosion and demonstrate future development models
for land with steep slopes. Introducing new pasture development and management practices would help
to reverse the accelerating grassland deterioration.
The project is designated a "B" category project, because the project is expected to have minimal negative
environmental impacts. While most of the proposed infrastructure works will be "new" works, they will
be built in areas already significantly affected by human activities. About 15 percent (3,150 ha) of land to
be reclaimed under the project would be located in environmentally fragile areas. The canal systems to be
constructed in the Shengli and Huangqiao subcomponents would run through areas with steep slopes and,
in some places, severe soil erosion. Special care would be taken during the construction of canals and
terracing in these areas. Soil erosion on steep slopes would be reduced through terracing and the planting
of fruit trees. Required mitigation measures are included in the construction costs for these works.
The agro-processing plants proposed under the project are of types not expected to create major potential
environmental damage. All plans for processing plants would be required to include an environmental
assessment to identify potential pollutants and propose mitigation measures. Wastewater treatment would
be incorporated in the design of the project's agro-processing plants, and plans would be developed to
monitor performance.
7. Participatory approach:
(a) Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary beneficiaries of the project are poor farmers in the 15 counties of the Liangshan and
Panzhihua Prefectures, who are predominantly of Yi nationality. During project preparation,
representatives of the Nationalities Affairs Commission, Poverty Alleviation Office and All China's
Women Federation were invited to be members of the Project Leading Group (PLG). The mayor of
Liangshan Prefecture, who is a member of the Liangshan PLG, is of Yi nationality. These groups actively
participated in the site visits of Bank missions and the discussions they had with technical staff, officials
and farmers. The design of each project component reflects the needs and ideas of the beneficiaries.
Their representatives would also oversee project implementation to ensure that the target beneficiaries are
equitably chosen and that the project is carried out to meet its objectives.
In the water resource development component, the Water Resources Management Committee would
bring together all stakeholders, government and non-government alike, with interests in the water
resources management of the Anning River Basin. This committee would provide policy guidance in
allocation matters and guidelines for achieving quantity and quality objectives. The component would
apply a participatory approach to the planning, design, implementation and O&M of the three
subcomponents. Throughout this process, beneficiaries of irrigation would be consulted and kept
informed about the status of the project. The Management Committee would also organize benefiting
villages and townships to undertake the O&M activities of the sublaterals and ditches.
(b) Other key stakeholders:
Others key stakeholders are the technical and scientific communities. These groups have been involved
in the project since identification and have representatives on the project's Scientific and Technical
Committee, which will review, supervise and monitor progress made under the project. The others are
the government entities at provincial, county and prefecture levels. Each level has its own PMOs and thus
has the facility to fully participate in the Project.



Page 16
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability will depend on: (a) effective project management arrangements to ensure high
quality project formulation, preparation and implementation; (b) success of the Anning River Basin Water
Resource Management Committee in drawing comprehensive planning and management of available
water resources, adequate cost recovery and environmental protection; (c) effective participation of
beneficiaries in the operation and maintenance of water delivery systems and adequate O&M funding
through enforcement of effective cost-recovery arrangements; (d) sufficient supply of reliable, good-
quality water and agricultural support services; (e) satisfactory financial arrangements for counterpart
funding and working capital, and (f) adequate local government support for road, rail, communications
and other infrastructure. These elements have been incorporated in the project design to ensure the
sustainability of the project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex I, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
*  Delayed completion of Daqiao Dam, lateral    S       Obtain commitment from
canals and on-farm works                             Government to provide adequate
funding for timely completion
*  Delayed or no introduction of new crop and   M       Ensure effective extension services,
fruit varieties                                      including adequate supply of new
planting material
*  Poor households are not benefiting from      M        Effective project supervision by
livestock component                                  PMO and Bank
*  Marginal or no improvement in quality of     M       Education and training of raw silk
silk                                                 producers and staff of processing
plants
*  Less than projected return from agro-        M       Ensure proper plant management,
business processing                                  installation of modern processing
technology and expansion of
markets
*  Inadequate cost recovery to sustain O&M      M       Ensure efficient and cost-effective
of water supply infrastructure works for             O&M practices through provision
irrigation and domestic use                          of training of O&M staff and
farmers
*  No reduction in soil erosion in hilly areas  M        Ensure sound engineering standards
for building of terraces, through
strict supervision and training
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
*  Ineffective administrative support and       M       Regular and effective supervision
insufficient counterpart funding                     by Bank and obtain commitment
from Government to provide funds
as projected



Page 17
*  Poor quality implementation of project     M        Ensure good quality construction
infrastructure works                                supervision and enforcement of
adequate engineering standards
*  Unsatisfactory coordination of local        S       Enforcement of organizational
government agencies                                 coordination arrangements and
provision of training
*  Farmers are not motivated to adopt project  M       Effective extension services,
recommendations                                    including training
*  Markets are not available for project      M        Ensure effective market
produce and prices are lower than projected         development programs and removal
of transport and possible other
constraints
*  Unsatisfactory adoption of new crop        M        Ensure effective agricultural support
varieties and production technologies               services
.  Inadequate adoption of improved silk       M        Training, technical assistance and
processing technologies                             development of incentive programs
Overall Risk Rating                M
Risk Rating - EH (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Possible conflict could occur between the water conservancy and agriculture bureaus in implementing the
components involving conversion of marginal lands into productive lands. Functions and responsibilities
would be clearly defined and cooperation between the two offices would be emphasized. To avoid this
conflict, land reclamation and development is assigned to be the responsibility of the Bureau of
Agriculture.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness:
Standard
2. Other:
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a)    The PPMO would furnish the Bank with annual work plans no later than December I of each
year for the main infrastructure works of the Manshuiwan, Huangqiao and Shengli subcomponents.
(b)    The PPMO would ensure that action plans acceptable to the Bank for carrying out of minor canal
systems, land reclamation and land development programs in area of approximately 15,000 hectares
under the Manshuiwan subcomponent in Liangshan Prefecture and in an area of approximately 2,700
hectares under the Huangqiao subcomponent in Miyi county would be funded adequately and carried out
in a timely fashion.



Page 18
(c)    The PPMO would furnish the Bank with annual work plans no later than December I of each
year for the lateral canal systems, on-farm works, and land development and land reclamation works in
the Manshuiwan, Huangqiao and Shengli project areas.
(d)    The PPMO would submit to the Bank annually, a status report on the collection rate of water
charges, review annually the water charges for each of the three subcomponents and adjust the charges as
needed to levels sufficient to cover at least the required O&M expenditures and a reasonable portion of
the replacement cost.
(e)    The water resource implementation agencies would prepare and furnish to the Bank no later than
June 30, 2000 operation and maintenance plans for the Manshuiwan, Huangqiao and Shengli
subcomponents. These plans would be put into effect as agreed with the Bank.
(f)    The Sichuan Provincial Government would carry-out the remedial measures recommended by the
Dam Safety Review Panel no later than June 30, 2000, including the establishment of a provincial dam
safety committee and standardized dam safety surveillance procedures and reconvene the Dam Safety
Panel at regular intervals to review the status of works in progress at the Huangqiao and Daqiao Dams.
(g)    The Sichuan Government would provide subloans to beneficiaries on the basis of guidelines
acceptable to the Bank that they are creditworthy and have the technical skills required to carry out the
subprojects. Among the criteria for creditworthiness that enterprises receiving the subloans would have
to meet are that their operations are technically feasible and commercially viable and have been designed
and located so as to be in compliance with sound health, safety and environmental guidelines acceptable
to the Bank.
(h)    All farm chemicals procured under the project would be ICAMA-approved products. Chemical
use, handling and storage would be according to guidelines acceptable to the Bank.
(i)    The PLG would be maintained with terms of reference, composition and resources acceptable to
the Bank. The Government would maintain and support the Project Management Offices at all levels
with terms of reference, composition and resources acceptable to the Bank.
(j)    Annual overseas training and study tour plans would be submitted no later than December I of
each year to the Bank for prior approval and all consultants would be hired in accordance with the IBRD
guidelines on the selection and use of consultants.
(k)    The implementation of the crop, fruit, sericulture and livestock sub-components would strictly follow
the technical standards acceptable to the Bank group.
(I)    The minority nationality developmentplan approved by the Bank would be implemented.
(m)   The duration of land use rights would be specified in the contract with farmers and would be
monitored under the project.
(n)    Sichuan shall ensure that the initial stock of production materials under sericulture and agro-
processing subprojects will not be financed under the sub-loans until the operation plans for the sub-
projects are acceptable to the Bank Group and equipment are installed and ready for operation.
(o)    Sichuan shall carry-out the agreed Resettlement Action Plans for the Manshuiwan and the
Huangqiao subcomponents.
(p)    Progress reports would be produced and forwarded to the Bank Group every six months. A mid-
term review would be undertaken by June 30, 2001.



Page 19
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X1 The engineering design docurnents for the first year' s activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[XI The procurement documents for the first year' s activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X1 The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
During project preparation, Bank policies pertained in the relevant ODs were carried out satis.actorily as
follows:
(a) OD 4.20: Social Assessments and Minority Development Plan
(b) OD 4.30: Involuntary Resettlement
(c) OP 4.37: Dam Safety Review
[I]  [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The projec. complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task        ader: Rapeepun Jaisaar (EASRD)
/' Sector Mager: Geoffrey B. Fox (EASRD)
Coy Director: Yukotng (EACCF)



Page 20
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
China: Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation [   Critical Assumptions
Sector-Related CAS Goals:                                                          (Goal to Bank Mission)
(a) effective utilization of    (a) development and    (a) area of land developed    (a) government will carry out
natural resources.         improvement of marginal    for agriculture outside the    land reclamation without
land and water.             project area.              project funding.
(b) intensification of     (b) increase in cropping    (b) agriculture data on     (b) new agricultural
agricultural development.   intensity index.           number of crops and yields   technologies will be
in project counties.       extended to farmers.
(c) improvement of         (c) investment in land      (c) percentage of hilly land   (c) government support and
environmental              terracing, tree planting and    adopting terracing/fruit  information for these
sustainability,            watershed management.       planting.                   activities will be given.
(d) job opportunities will be
(d) increase in rural      (d) reduced rural           (d) employment statistics.   increased directlv and
employment                 unempioyment.                                          indirectly through the
project.
(e) reduction in regional  (e) increase in average     (e) income statistics. living   (e)successful targeting of
income disparity and       household income            standards                   poverty groups through
poverty.                   absolutely and compared to                              special programs will be
Sichuan.                                               implemented.
Project Development                                                               (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
(a) increase in crop and   (a) incremental production    (a) periodic comparison of   (a) technologies are
livestock production and   and ,ields of crops and     yield and production before  disseminated and inputs are
productivity.              livestock.                  and after project           available to producers.
completion.
(b) improve marketability    (b) varieties and processed    (b) market survey and  (b) market is allowed to
and increase value added to  forms of crops and livestock  production flexibility to  adjust freely.
the products.              according to market         respond to demand.
demand.
(c) provide effective      (c) formation of river basin   (c) performance and impact  (c) composition of committee
management of water        committee and planning;     of river basin committee.    membership is balanced.
resources.                 utilization of water
resources in harmonized,
effective and sustainable
manner.                                                (d) government supports role
(d) promote development of  (d) location of project area,  (d) identify the project area   of All China Women's
mountainous areas, target    number of poor minority   and monitor that the        Federation in household
poor minorities and women.  households and women       targeted households are    identification and
participating in the project.   maintained.            monitoring.
Outputs:                                                                           (Outputs to Objective)
(a) water supply for       (a) infrastructure installed    (a) periodic survey results   (a) Daqiao Dam, distribution
irrigation, urban and      and areas brought under     comparing current with pre-  svstems and on-farm works
industrial uses and        irrigation; farmer's        project benchmark;         completed.
generation of electricity.  satisfaction with irrigation    infrastructure completion
delivery                   report.



Page 21
(b) increased grain,       (b) hectare of marginal land   (b) crop and fruit production  (b) new and improved crop
vegetable and fruit        developed and actual        statistics; varieties, quality   and fruit varieties used in
production .               production levels.          data from farmer survey.    planting programs.
(c) increased livestock    (c) number of livestock     (c) collection of socio-    (c) poor households are the
production.                households and number of    economic data on livestock   major beneficiaries of
livestock raised per annum.   households               livestock component
(d) increased quantity and    (d) actual quantity and  (d) data from the reeling   (d) higher quality silk
quality of silk.           qualitv achieved.           mills.                      produced in the project area.
(e) value added to products  (e) required processing is    (e) data from the processing  (e) higher return for
through processing.        carried out as designed.    plants.                     production under the project
received.
(f) income from water      (f) level of water charges,    (f) compare actual rates with  (f) cost recovery and self-
charges sufficient to finance  collection rates and O&M  planned ones.             sufficiencv achieved.
operation and maintenance.  costs.
(g) reduction in soil erosion  (g) hillv area is terraced and  (g) measures taken to  (g) environmental
in hilly areas.            planted .                   prevent soil erosion on     sustainability improved.
reclaimed land.
Project Components/Sub-    Inputs:                                                 (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2                               For all components:         For all components:
for project description)   Cost includes contingencies.
- implementation of project  - government promptly and
(a) Water Resource         (a) US5105.5 million.       components monitored        consistently provides
Development.                                           regularly by borrower.      counterpart funding and
- semi-annual progress     effective administrative
(b) Crop Development.      (b) US$35.6 million.        report prepared             support.
summarizing status of      - effective implementation by
project implementation and   Daqiao Corp., Water
(c) Orchard Development    (c) US$36.3 million.        disbursement and            Resource Bureau and other
highlighting issues.       technical bureaus.
- Bank to dispatch 1-2     - improved coordination of
(d) Sericulture Development (d) US$26.6 million.       supervision missions per    government agencies at the
year to review             local level.
implementation issues and   -farmers well motivated to
to exchange views with     carry out projects'
(e) Livestock Development  (e) US$13.3 million         borrower.                  recommendations.
- markets available and
(f) Agro-Processing        (f) US$12.7 million                                     prices favorable for projects'
crops and livestock.
(g) Institutional          (g) US$8.9 million                                      - superior varieties and
Strengthening.                                                                     technologies successfully
adopted by participants.
- improved silk technologies
used widely from farm
households to silk reeling
mills.



Page 22
Annex 2
Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project
Project Description
Summary. The project would support the Sichuan Government's policy of developing the Anning Valley.
The project would cover 15 counties within Liangshan Prefecture and Panzhihua Municipality. The area
has high potential for agricultural development, because there are large areas of marginal land whose
productivity could be markedly increased in the generally the good climatic conditions. The project aims
to increase the production, productivity, marketability and value-added of agriculture, horticulture and
animal husbandry in the area, with the particular further objective of reducing the poverty of farners in
remote areas. These objectives would be achieved through: (a) supplying additional and more reliable
water for irrigation (also industrial and urban use), (b) developing land and technology for grain and
vegetable production, (c) developing marginal hilly land for fruit orchards, (d) improving sericulture
technology, (e) improving farmer income by introducing new varieties and technologies for livestock
production and (f) adding value to crop and livestock production through processing. The project would
foster the effective use of existing natural resources, promote the development of mountainous areas,
encourage the participation of women in production and improve the environment and reduce soil erosion.
Project Component 1 - Water Resource Development US$105.5 million (44 percent of total project
cost)
1. The water resources development component includes the following three subcomponents (see Table
below):
(a) The Manshuiwan Water Resources Development Subcomponent to provide water for
irrigation, industrial, urban and rural use as well as for the generation of electricity. The
project areas are located in Liangshan Prefecture, primarily in the city of Xichang, and some
areas of Mianning and Dechang Counties;
(b) The Shengli Irrigation Subcomponent to provide irrigation to high value crops in Renhe
District and Zongfa Township of Panzhihua City;
(c) The Huangqiao Irrigation Subcomponent to provide water for irrigation in Miyi county in
Panzhihua City and for domestic use in Miyi Town.
Subcomponent Areas
Current Status                Future Status
Partially Rainfed Marginal Total   Gravity Pumped  Total
Irrigated       Land           Irrigated Irrigated
Subcomponent <-------------------ha------ ---------> <------ ---------ha----------->
Manshuiwan     3,353   9,414   1,633  14,400   12,900   1,500  14,400
Shengli               1,631   1,321  2,952    2,952      -  2,952
Huang Qiao      415   1,778    487  2,680    2,680       -  2,680
Total      3,768  12,823   3,441  20,032   18,532   1,500  20,032



Page 23
Manshuiwan Subcomponent
2.     The Daqiao Dam will be the key structure for resolving water supply for urban, industrial and
agricultural use in the Anning River basin. The dam, which is located in Mianning County in the upper
portion of the Anning River, is 40 percent complete. The estimated cost of the concrete face rockfill type
dam is Yl.1 billion ($140 million). The river-bed level at the dam site is 1,934 m. Construction started in
1993 and has advanced to a level of about 45 m, about one half of the planned height of 93 m. The dam
will be 264 m wide. Storage capacity will be about 658 Mm3. Installed power capacity would be 100 MW
(four units of 25 MW). Head would be 156 m, Q=82 m3/sec through a 6.5 km tunnel. The dam, including
the tunnel, is scheduled for completion by end-1998. The entire system is scheduled to be completed and
operational by mid-1999. Financing to complete the facility is secured from local sources.
3.     The project would  support the Manshuiwan  subcomponent, which  would  comprise the
construction of a vveir across the Anning River and trunk, main and branch canals to supply water to: (i)
irrigate about 14,400 ha on the left bank of the Anning River, (ii) generate about 110,000 MWh of
electricity per year through the 18 MW Huangtupo Hydro Power Station (HPS) to be constructed under the
project, and (iii) provide about 380,000 m3/day of raw water for domestic and industrial use. In addition
the subcomponent would: (iv) stabilize water supplies to the existing Xili irrigated area of about 7,673 ha
from the tailwater of the Huangtupo Hydro Power Station, (v) supplement the flow in the Anning River
during low periods., and (vi) increase power benefits from the Yuehua and Potounao Hydro Power Stations
(HPS).
4.     The Manslhuiwan Weir, which would be located on the Anning River near the Town of
Manshuiwan in the upper portion of the middle reach of the Anning River, would divert 90 m3/sec into a
8.2 km left bank trunk canal, which would start at elevation 1,614 m and bifurcate into 70 m3/sec for the
HPS and 22 m3/sec for irrigation of 14,400 ha on the left Bank of the Anning River1. The 14,400 ha to be
irrigated would include about 1,500 ha in scattered locations above the elevation of the main and branch
canal supply levels. The distribution network would consist of a main canal of approximately 33.4 km and
two branch canals with a total length of 96 km. Canals would have stone masonry lining and trapezoidal
or rectangular sections.
Manshuiwan Sub-Project
Main and Branch Canals
Unit  Trunk   Main   Qionghai  Xide   Total    Remarks
Canal   Canal   Branch  Branch
Canal   Canal
Open canal           - km       7.81    27.62     7.76   66.42  109.61
Closed Condiuit         km               2.36     1.85    0.02   4.23 longest 0.50 km
sites              62       12       2     76
Aquaduct               km       0.33     0.71     0.97    2.13   4.14 longest 0.60 km
sites      1       26       11      16     53
Tunnel                 km                2.70     5.39    8.23   16.32 longest 1.32 km
sites               6        8      18      2
Inverted siphon        km                  -        -    3.27   3.27 longest 2.03 km
sites               -        -       4      4
Total length canal system   km  8.14    33.39    15.97   80.07  137.57
Water level at head     m    1,613.5  1,608.5  1,589.9  1,590.4
Area irrigated          ha              2,900    4,007   7,493  14,400
Discharge at head     m3/sec    90.0    20.5      4.0      9.0
Land acquisition        ha       8.3    32.6      7.1    32.8   80.8
l Intake arrangements and canal systems to irrigate about 10,000 ha on the right bank would be developed at a later
stage



Page 24
5.    In order to provide water from the main and branch canals to the 1,500 ha in locations above the
elevation of the main and branch canal supply levels, the project would provide four "concentrated"
pumping stations to lift water from the Xide branch canal to irrigate area of about 700 ha. Water for
another 800 ha would be supplied by 'non-concentrated' scattered individual small pumps. The majority
of this area would be developed for fruit orchards. The lifts would range from 30 to 35 m and flows from
80 to 200 I/sec. Formal agreements between the land bureaus in the Huangshui and Xixi townships of
Xichang city and the Mali township in Dechang county and farmer groups for the development of these
areas have been concluded. Farmers groups would be fully responsible for the operation and maintenance
of the pumping stations and conveyance systems.
6.    To fully benefit from irrigation, about 9,414 ha would also be improved. The areas selected by the
township bureaus are currently medium and low-yielding and in need of improvement measures such as
drainage, leveling, farm roads, top soil, terracing, etc. The land improvement works would be planned,
designed and implemented by the Agricultural Development Office (ADO) at the county level. The
average cost would not exceed Y 5,500/ha. Benefiting farmers would provide labor for implementing the
works, which would represent about 70 percent of the value of the works. The balance would be provided
by local governments in the form of materials and equipment. Contracts for land improvement works
would be concluded between the beneficiaries, township agricultural bureaus and the county PMO.
7.    About 1,633 ha of currently marginal lands in Xichang and Dechang County would be reclaimed
prior to receiving irrigation under the project. The areas have been identified by the townships. About
1,230 ha are marginal land with acceptable slopes, substantial rock outcrops and little top soil. Others,
about 400 ha, are close to the river and flood-prone. The average reclamation cost would be Y 18,670 per
ha. Seventy percent of funding would be provided by the beneficiaries and the balance of 30 percent by
the local governments.
8.    The project would generate substantial benefits not only from supplying irrigation water but also
from generating electricity and supplying raw water to industry, Xichang City and rural communities
currently lacking good quality drinking water. Electricity and water charges tariffs have been agreed with
the Liangshan Prefecture as follows: electricity Y 0.55/kWh, irrigation water 15 kg of rice per mu
(Y 40/mu assuming a rice price of Y 2.6/kg) for all crops, raw water for industry Y 0.6/m3, water for
urban use Y 0.5/m3 and water for rural communities Y 0.4/mi3. These rates would be adjusted periodically
in line with price increases.
9.    The Manshuiwan Subcomponent under the project would be implemented by the Daqiao
Hydroelectric Development Corporation (DHDC). DHDC was set up in 1996, registered as a state-owned
enterprise to act as the owner on behalf of the Sichuan Government overseeing the implementation of the
Daqiao dam and the Manshuiwan Diversion Scheme. It would build, operate and maintain the Daqiao
Dam, the left bank diversion canal network, including headworks, main and branch canal systems, and
subsequent schemes to be developed on the Anning River. Under the project, DHDC would also be
responsible for preparing and executing tenders for civil works, goods and services and for installing plant
and equipment. It would retain the Sichuan Water Conservancy and Hydroelectric Design and Research
Institute of the Water Conservancy Bureau of Chengdu to complete designs, execute design changes. The
on-site engineer for construction supervision would be contracted upon completion of a competitive
selection process in which at least four qualified firms/institutes will participate.  The Sichuan
Hydroelectric Design and Research Institute would be one of the short-listed institutes. Laterals and
sublaterals originating from the branch canals and serving areas of 10,000 mu or less would be constructed
with significant participation of the farming communities benefiting from the irrigation. Construction of
field ditches would be undertaken entirely by farmers.
10.   Following the construction of infrastructure works, DHDC would be responsible for the operation
and maintenance of the facilities built under the project. It would prepare manuals with procedures and
instructions for the operation and maintenance of these works. In addition, it would develop an



Page 25
appropriate organization for O&M, which would include adequate staffing details, cost projections and job
descriptions.
Shengli Subcomponent
11.   The Shengli Dam was built during 1993-1995 on the Yizi River. The cost was Y75 million
(approximately $9 million). Storage capacity is about 22 Mm3. Dam height is 26 m. Irrigation would be
supplied to the right bank only, through an existing 19 km tunnel with a flow capacity of 3.0 m3/sec.
Tunnel construction was completed in 1996. A small 200 kW power plant has been built on the left bank
below the dam, wlhich uses a release of 0.5 m3/sec from the Shengli Reservoir of the Yuejin Dam. This
dam is located about 9 km upstream of Shengli and was built in 1966. The tailwater of the power plant
irrigates about 700 ha on the left bank.
12.   The project would support the completion of the infrastructure facilities, which would provide
irrigation to about 2,952 ha of mainly steeply inclined land, including 1,321 ha of currently uncultivated
land. The project would support the implementation of 37.9 km of branch canals, which would circle
around a mountain, utilize a 18.8 km tunnel/main canal and reach an elevation of 1402 m. Four irrigation
areas would be developed under the project, one to be served by the main canal (283 ha) and three branch
canals serving 884 ha of the Ashuda, 810 ha of the Mahaida and 975 ha of the Zhumu mountain areas.
The total length of the laterals would be 100.8 km, and field ditches would be 105 km. Canal designs
mainly have trapezoidal and rectangular sections and stone masonry lining.
13.   To fully benefit from the irrigation provided, 1,631 ha would be improved and another 1,321 ha of
currently marginal lands on relatively steep slopes would be reclaimed. The lands to be improved are
rainfed lands (1,331 ha) and would be improved at a cost of Y 6,610/ha. The balance or 300 ha would be
improved for the cultivation of vegetables at a cost of Y 38,100 per ha. About 300 ha on relatively steep
slopes have already been reclaimed during the past three years for the cultivation of high value mango
orchards. An additional 354 ha would be reclaimed for mango cultivation under the project at an average
cost of Y 82,410 per ha. Sixty percent of financing would be provided by local governments with the
balance 40 percent to be provided by benefiting townships, villages and farmers. The reclamation program
includes farm roads, water regulating facilities, ditches, terracing, leveling, preparing of tree planting pits
and the supply and planting of mango seedlings. Another 667 ha would be reclaimed for food crop
cultivation at a cost of Y 34,700 per ha. These land reclamation and land development programs would be
implemented under the crop development component of the project.
14.   The Hydroelectric Bureau of Panzhihua City would be responsible for the implementation of the
Shengli subcomponent. It would select and employ, through a competitive process, an enterprise to assist
with construction supervision, contract administration and quality control of the major works, including
main and branch canals and lateral canals serving areas larger than 10,000 mu (667 ha). The Hydroelectric
and Farm Machinery Bureau of Renhe District would be responsible for the implementation of the
subbranch or lateral canals. It would coordinate the design and implementation of these works with the
Hydroelectric Bureau of Panzhihua and the beneficiaries. These works would be constructed with the
participation of the farming communities benefiting from the provision of irrigation. Construction of field
ditches would be undertaken entirely by farmers.
15.   Water charges for irrigation have been agreed with the Price Bureau of the Government of
Panzhihua. They would be the following: for irrigation of: (i) grains Y 30/mu, (ii) vegetables Y 60/mu and
(iii) fruit orchards Y 80/mu. They would be adjusted periodically to absorb price increases and to ensure
that charges account for O&M cost and a reasonable portion of the investment cost. The Shengli Reservoir
Management Bureau would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the entire system. It
would set up four Village Management Stations for the areas to be irrigated by the main canal and the
three branch canals. These Stations would direct and oversee water management practices (allocation and
distribution) and system maintenance to be carried out by seven benefiting townships comprising 22



Page 26
villages. Apart from looking after O&M, the management stations would also be responsible for collecting
water charges at townships and village levels.
The Huangqiao Subcomponent
16.   The project would provide support for the construction of the Huangqiao Dam and the conveyance
and distribution system to supply water for irrigation and domestic use and for the generation of electricity.
The project would built a 68 m high earthen dam and create a reservoir with a storage capacity of 19 Mm3
and two small hydroelectric power stations with an installed capacity of 640 kW and water treatment
facility which would supply Miyi town. The reservoir would supply: (i) 2.7 m3/sec into a 0.4 km conveyer
which would feed 1.4 m /sec into a 17.6 km right (south) bank main canal and 1.3 m3/sec into a 18.8 km
left (north) bank main canal and (ii) 16,000 m3/day of treated water to Miyi City. Branch canals would be
60.5 km long in total. The distribution system would include 332 km of laterals and sublaterals and 324
km of field ditches. About 2,680 ha would be developed for irrigation under the project, 1,260 ha on the
right bank and 1,420 ha on the left bank. Of these, 1,300 ha, has already been issued to local farmers and
is currently cultivated with mostly rainfed low yielding sugarcane. For the development of these lands
farmers received support from the local sugar factory.
17.   Under this subcomponent, a demonstration of overhead technology for irrigation of sugarcane on 3
ha would be established. In addition drip lines and micro sprinklers would be tested initially in an area of
2 ha, primarily for the irrigation of vegetables and fruit orchards. The sprinkler equipment and drip lines
would be owned and installed by the Huangqiao Reservoir Management Bureau under the project. The
hydroelectric and agricultural bureaus of the county would install the equipment and train the farming
community to properly operate and maintain the equipment. In addition to the normal water charges
benefiting farners would pay an additional Y 30/mu, which will be retained for financing the training and
O&M. After farmers are trained the equipment will be offered for sale to the communities concerned, on
terms to be agreed with them. Financing may be provided from the small scale hydraulic project fund.
The adoption of sprinkler equipment and driplines is projected to reduce water use by 50 percent.
18.   To fully benefit from irrigation, 2,193 ha would be improved and another 487 ha of currently
marginal lands would be reclaimed under this component. The land improvement works would cover 733
ha of recently reclaimed rainfed sugarcane lands, at a cost of Y 10,650 per ha, and 1,460 ha of currently
rainfed areas, at a cost of Y 9,123 per ha. About 354 ha would be reclaimed for irrigated sugarcane, at a
cost of Y 23,025 per ha, and another 133 ha for mulberry cultivation, at a cost of Y 1,965 per ha. The land
improvement and reclamation programs would be 30% funded by local governments with the remaining
70% coming from benefiting townships, villages and farmers. These works would be planned, designed
and implemented under the project's Crop Development Component.
19.   A special implementation unit has been established for the Huangqiao Subcomponent, the
Huangqiao Construction Office (HCO). It would oversee the implementation of the major infrastructure
works, including the dam and branch canals. The Hydroelectric Bureau of Miyi County would have
primary responsibility for the implementation of laterals and sublaterals. The HCO would be staffed with
qualified personnel from relevant county offices. The Hydropower Bureau of Miyi County would be the
lead agency. HCO would retain the Sichuan Hydraulic Science Institute (SHSI) to oversee design changes
during construction and select and contract an independent engineering enterprise as the "engineer" for the
construction of works. The laterals and sublaterals would be constructed with significant participation (40-
50 percent of the cost) of the farming communities benefiting from the provision of irrigation.
Construction of field ditches would be undertaken entirely by farmers.
20.   The Huangqiao Reservoir Management Bureau would be responsible for the O&M  of the
infrastructure facilities. It initial activities would be the preparation of O&M procedures, manuals,
organizational structures and staffing. A management committee of representatives of the benefiting
villages and townships would also be established to work closely with the Management Bureau. It will
have a key role in preparing annual water allocation plans and in overseeing the collection and spending of



Page 27
the water charges. In addition, committee for managing O&M would be established at township and
village levels. Those committees would be responsible for planning and implementing the O&M activities
of the sublaterals and ditches. They would contract for irrigation water supplies each year in accordance
with the demand projections and water charges sanctioned by the Panzhihua City government.
21.   Irrigation water users would be charged Y 30/mu for the irrigation of grains and Y 54/mu for
irrigation of caslh crops. These charges have been agreed and confirmed by Miyi County and Panzhihua
City. It is projected that by year 2010 about 35 Mm3 of treated water would be sold to Miyi County at the
current rate of Y 0.5/m3. About 3.5 MWh of electricity would be sold annually to the county's power
company at a current rate of Y 0.3/kWh. All charges would be adjusted periodically to reflect increased
prices and to ensure that O&M costs and a reasonable portion of the investment cost would be recovered.
Resettlement
22.   The construction of the Manshuiwan Weir, the Huangqiao Dam and the canal distribution
networks would require resettlement of about 2,638 people. Of them 1,506 persons will have to be
relocated.  Detailed resettlement action plans (RAPs), in accordance with the Bank's Operational
Directives (OP 4.30) on Involuntary Resettlement, have been prepared and approved for implementation
under the project and can be found in the Project File. The PPMO would retain the Sichuan Water
Conservancy ancl Hydroelectric Design and Research Institute of Chengdu to monitor and evaluate the
implementation of the RAP during project implementation.
Anning River Basin Water Resources Management Committee
23.   The Governments of Panzhihua City and Liangshan Prefecture have established the Anning River
Basin Water Resources Management Committee (WRMC). The committee would provide guidance to
agencies involved in the planning, management and utilization of the water resources of the Anning River
and its tributaries. The membership of the committee consists of government as well as non-government
stakeholders. It is composed of representatives of various government agencies associated with water
management in the basin, universities and agricultural research institutions, water users (farmers,
industries, cities, etc.) and non-government organizations. The terms of reference for the committee would
focus on addressiing water quality and quantity in the Anning basin in economic terms with respect to
distribution among the various using sectors. The committee would be supported by a permanently-
staffed, small secretariat and would focus on the following tasks: (i) integration of sector programs, (ii)
ensure efficient use of new water resources in all applications (human, livestock, industry, agriculture,
hydropower development and any other uses), (iii) manage water resources with environmental issues in
mind, (iv) prepare for emergencies such as drought and floods, (v) monitor water quality, and (vi) provide
public information. In addition it would provide guidance to water allocation strategies in the entire basin
underpinned by spatial plans, pricing policies, water rights systems and real-time water management
operations. In addition it will commission new studies and the development of a river basin model using
the 1990 studies as a starting point. Technical assistance would be provided to assist the committee with
the development and/or strengthening of operating procedures and regulations.
Dam Safety Review
24.   The Sichuan Water Conservancy Bureau (SWCB) appointed a Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP)
of experts in 1997. The DSRP will undertake periodic, comprehensive and independent reviews to
evaluate features and actions pertaining to the safety of those dams and appurtenant structures supplying
water to the project areas. The DSRP is guided by the dam safety assurance objectives of the SWCB and
by related legislation, regulations, standards and criteria. It undertook the first review of the existing
Shengli, Yuejin and Pingdi Dams on the Yizi river, the Daqiao Dam under construction on the Anning
River, the planned Huangqiao Dam on the Caochang River in Miyi County and the planned Manshuiwan
Weir on the Anning River in Mianning County during October and November 1997. The review
concluded that the existing dams were designed and constructed satisfactorily. However, a monitoring



Page 28
program and a number of remedial measures were recommended for Yuejin and Pingdi Dams. These
measures, estimated to cost about Y I million would be implemented under the project. No major issues
were identified with the ongoing construction of the Daqiao Dam and the planning and design features of
the Huangqiao Dam.
25.   SWCB would convene the DSRP at regular intervals to review the status of works in progress.
The frequency of the reviews and their timing would be adjusted to conform with the schedule of works in
progress on the Daqiao and Huangqiao Dams and the Manshuiwan Weir. The composition of DSRP, and
the areas of expertise that it covers may varied during the course of project implementation, as considered
appropriate by SWCB in consultation with the Chairman of DSRP and the Bank.
26.   At the provincial level, a Dam Safety Unit would be set up to develop and establish standardized
surveillance procedures to ensure that the safety status of their dams is known at all times. These would
consist of visual inspections, according to an appropriate checklist, and a data base containing the various
instrument readings from the dams, which would be processed into graphical form for easy and quick
assessment. A Dam Safety Committee, consisting of experienced dam specialists, would also be set up to
review at regular intervals the surveillance reports of the Dam Safety Unit and the emergency procedures.
Based on its findings, it would assess whether any actions would be necessary. It would also ensure that a
schedule would be adopted for regular testing, under operating conditions, of all mechanical gates and the
valves associated with dewatering tunnels, controlled openings and spillway gates.
27.   To make sure that the above program would be put in place and would be executed in an efficient
and timely manner, technical assistance would be provided to cover the fundamental aspects of dam
surveillance. A group of 5 to 6 Sichuan WCB officials responsible for the operation and maintenance of
dams would be made familiar with what owners of dams outside China would find necessary to do in order
to fulfill their public duty of care in operating those assets. This technical assistance would be targeted
towards engineers in the middle range of experience with around 10 years association with design,
construction or management of dam facilities. The course would be practical in nature and would be
taught over a period of about 3-4 weeks. The cost of this course would be about $50,000 equivalent, on
the assumption that it would be conducted in Australia.
Project Component 2 - Crop Development US$35.6 million (15 percent of total project cost)
28.   This component is designed to help the Sichuan Provincial Government implement its high
priority objectives of increasing provincial food production and improving the lagging status of Liangshan
Prefecture and Panzhihua Municipality. The focus is on the main staple grain crops (rice, wheat, and
maize) and on potatoes and vegetables. The major constraints to increased grain and vegetable production
are the shortage of suitable land for these crops and a number of other inter-linked factors, such as lack of
quality, improved-variety seeds and inadequate extension services. Extension advice suffers from poor or
non-existent extension facilities, inadequately trained farmers and extension staff, and the lack of a good
research-extension interface for the rapid transfer of newly developed technologies to farmers.
29.   The crop development component is therefore an effort to rectify this situation through a variety of
interventions, including reclamation of new land and improvement of existing land, seed multiplication of
improved varieties, improvements to the extension service, farmer and staff training and research. The
component is divided into two grain and vegetables subcomponents and will be implemented by the
Bureaus of Agriculture in Liangshan and Panzhihua for the grain subcomponent and the Vegetable Office
in Municipal Administration of Panzhihua for vegetables. In the grain subcomponent, the project would
support (a) reclamation of 3,500 ha of new land, (b) improvement of 9,800 ha of low-yielding land, (c)
seed multiplication of 2,300 ha (paddy 850 ha, wheat 1,300 ha, hybrid maize 150 ha, and potatoes 7 ha),
(d) introduction of new crop production technology in 2,560 ha (1,000 ha paddy, 500 ha wheat, 700 ha
corn and 360 ha potatoes), (e) strengthening of 60 Township Agricultural Extension Centers, (f) farmer
training, and (g) research. In the vegetable subcomponent, the project would support the (a) development
of 1,200 ha of new land, (b) improvement of 3,000 ha of existing low-yield land, (c) development of a 10-



Page 29
ha sprinkler irrigation demonstration site, (d) development of a 1 0-ha vegetable seed multiplication site, (e)
training of farmers and staff, and (f) financing of applied research for vegetables. The cultivation of
vegetables is of particular interest to Panzhihua as a result of its growing urban population. Crop
development under this component is detailed as follows:
Crop Development Component - Area (ha)
PY I     PY2       PY3       PY4       PY 5      Total
Grain Production
Liangshan
Land Reclamation                      250       350       300       300       300      1,500
Lard Improvement                     1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000     1,000     5.000
Seed Propagation - Rice               170       255       213       127        85        850
Seed Propagation - Wheat              260       390       325       195       130      1.300
Seed Propagation -Corn                 30        45        38        22        15        150
New-technical Extension - Rice        200       300                                      500
New-technical Extension - Wheat       200       300                                      500
New-technical Extension - Com         200       200                                      400
New-technical Extension - Potatoes              120       240                            360
Potato Seed lPropagation                          7                                        7
Panzhihua
Land Reclamation                      400       400       400       400       400      2,000
Land Improvement                     1,000     1,000     1,000     1.000      800      4,800
New-technical Extension - Rice        200       300                                      500
New-technical Extension - Corn        150       150                                      300
Vegetable Production
Vegetable - New Land                  600       600                                     1,200
Vegetable - Improved Land            1,500     1.500                                   3,000
Vegetable - Sprinkler                  10                                                 10
30.    In both subcomponents, funding will be provided for civil works to reclaim new land and improve
existing holdings. These works include building irrigation channels and field access roads, levelling land
and applying organic and inorganic fertilizer. For seed multiplication activities, assistance for initial
expenditure on various crops (hybrid and conventional rice, hybrid maize, wheat and virus free potato) is
also planned with inputs of fertilizer, agro-chemicals, etc. to the outgrower farmers on contract to the seed
companies. In the vegetable subcomponent, seed multiplication, seed processing, office and laboratory
equipment would be funded. A total of 60 agriculture extension stations would be rehabilitated or
constructed and allso equipped.
Project Component 3 - Orchard Development US$26.6 million ( 11 percent of total project cost)
31.    This component aims to increase the quality and varietal distribution of high-quality fruit
production in the project area. Development of quality fruit has been given a high priority by the Sichuan
Provincial Government due to the income generation capacity of orchards, its potential for export to other
areas of China, and its reduction of soil erosion commonly found in the Anning River Valley on sloping
lands. The project area is already a major producer of fruit, especially sub-tropical fruits. The agro-
ecology of the area is well suited to this cultivation, and it also has good communications with other parts
of the Province and China through a well developed rail and road system. It has a long history of fruit
cultivation with many quality varieties developed and presently cultivated, namely, pomegranate (red and
green skinned varieties), navel orange (Newhall, Navelina, Skaggs Bonanza), and pear (Golden Pendent,
Golden Flower, 6-2 and 5-51). Constraints facing further production are (a) the need to improve the
technical management of the orchards by farners, (b) the lack of quality planting material of the
recommended fruit varieties, (c) a shortage of land available for the establishment of orchards, (d) poor
post-harvest processing facilities, and (e) the lack of proper marketing infrastructure.



Page 30
Orchard Development Component - Area (ha)
Orchard Development           PY I      PY 2      PY 3     PY 4      PY 5      Total
Liangshan
Pomegranate - Mini-Sprinkler         20                                                20
Pomegranate - Gravity Pipe           30        90        60                           180
Pomegranate - Mobile Sprinkler       90        90        60                           240
Pomegranate - Rehabilitated         150       150                                     300
Panzhihua
Mango - Mini-Sprinkler               30                                                30
Mango - Gravity Pipe                150       150                                     300
Mango - Mobile Sprinkler                      240       360                           660
Longan - Mini-Sprinkler              30                                                30
Longan - Gravity Pipe                45        45                                      90
Longan - Mobile Sprinkler                      75       105        15                 195
32.    The project would support the development of marginal land and the improvement of existing
orchards for high quality fruit production. It would invest in the (a) establishment of budwood gardens and
nurseries (19.5 ha), (b) development of 1,745 ha of new pomegranate, mango and longan orchards, (c)
rehabilitation of 300 ha of pomegranate orchards, (d) construction of simple post-harvesting facilities and
(e) support of training, research and extension. For each fruit crop, three different irrigation systems will
be installed, namely, (a) mini sprinkler (total area all crops 80 ha), (b) plastic pipe (570 ha), and (c)
portable sprinkler (1,095 ha). These newly developed orchards would plant budded/grafted seedlings of
improved varieties and be given high levels of management, through extension advice and farmer training.
Where feasible, orchards would be inter-cropped with annual field crops and vegetables during the first 3-4
years of establishment, and consolidated blocks of 20-30 ha would be developed where possible.
Improvements to existing orchards would be undertaken on 300 ha in Liangshan during the period PYI-
PY2 for pomegranate (300 ha). Existing orchards are to be upgraded through inter-planting missing stands
and grafting established trees with improved varieties. Irrigation is also to be provided to these orchards.
In Panzhihua, budwood gardens and nurseries totaling 30 ha are to be established for mangos and longan
in order to provide the necessary improved plant material for the orchards. Until these come into
production, budwood will be sourced from both within Sichuan and from other provinces of China.
33.    For orchard development and rehabilitation, the project would finance production and irrigation
equipment, land development materials (explosives, land treatment materials and construction materials
for terraces and feeder roads), production inputs such as fertilizer, agro-chemicals, and tools.
Component 4 - Sericulture Development US$36.3 million (15% of total project cost)
34.    This component aims to increase and improve the quality and productivity of silk production by
introducing new sericulture production and processing technologies to cocoon-production households,
silkmoth egg grainages, young-silk-worm rearing centers, silk-cocoon drying centers and silk reeling mills.
35.    The existing quality of reeled silk produced in the Anning Valley is poor by Chinese standards, and
silk reeling mills achieve an average reeled-silk grade of only 2A in a grading system that reaches 6A for the
top quality product. This reduces the value of silk production throughout the industry, from mulberry farming
through cocoon production to silk reeling, and the loss to the project area is substantial. The project area
should be able to produce grade 4A or higher by upgrading the industry at all levels, under the project, through
improved silkmoth egg grainage facilities, improved cocoon production methodology and facilities, improved
drying center equipment, and upgraded reeling mills (automatic reeling machines and other improvements).
This would provide an increase of up to 30% in the value of production, and there would also be increased
revenues from the incremental production.



Page 31
36.    This sub-component has been designed to be market driven, and project investments would be closely
matched to the identified market for raw silk and cocoons. Value added processing would be undertaken
within the project area, and most cocoons produced under the project would be reeled into raw silk. Silk
reeling mills have been considered as nucleus estates in which the mills would identify the cocoon production
areas and collection centers to be developed for their processing requirements. Some small proportion of dry
cocoons could be exported to other provinces (or abroad).
37.    The project would support investment in production, processing and marketing facilities for the
production of 560 t/y of reeled raw silk, and 486 t/y of dried cocoons for export to other provinces and abroad.
The project would include 2,670 ha of incremental mulberTy farming, 694 young-silk-worm-raising
households, and 23,808 cocoon-raising households. Facilities would include two upgraded silkmoth egg
grainages, expanded or newly constructed 280 t/d cocoon drying facilities, and four expanded silk reeling mills
with a total of 8,000 incremental ends.
Production volumes planned for the project area sericulture component.
Raw (reeled)   Dry cocoon    Dry cocoon   Fresh      Silkmoth
silk      for reeling    for export  cocoons       eggs        Mulberry
County          t/y           t/y          tly          t/y        boxes/y        t/y
Xichang          56          173.6         48.6         533.3       16,666       10,666
Ningnan          168         520.8        145.8       1,599.9       49,997       31,998
Huidong          168         520.8        145.8       1,599.9      49,997        31,998
Yanbian          168         520.8        145.8       1,599.9       49,997       31,998
TOTAL            560        1,736.0       486.0       5,332.9     166,656       106.660
38.    The project would introduce improved technology for cocoon production at the household level under
the project. Cocoons would be produced in vertical cardboard frames instead of horizontal trays. This
technology has the advantage that each cocoon is spun in a cell in the suspended frame, and as all cells are of
the same dimensions cocoon weight and size are less variable. The cocoons stay cleaner, and the cocoons do
not get damaged by the plastic netting or straw that fanners use in the traditional horizontal trays. This results
in a higher proportion of cocoons being Grade-A and a lower proportion being Grade-C.
Production facilities planned for the project area sericulture component.
Drying center    Cocoon
Raw silk    expansion      drying      Cocoon        Young       Mulberry
auto-reeling   5t/d to lOt/d  centers  production    silkwormn     farmning
County          ends                    New 10 t/d   households    households      ha
Xichang          800           6            0          2,381          69          267
Ningnan         2,400          0            8          7.142         208          800
Huidong         2,400         16            0          7,142         208          800
Yanbian         2,400          0            8          7,142         208          800
TOTAL           8,000        22            16         23,808         694         2,666
39.    The project would finance the construction or expansion of 694 young-silkworm-rearing centers
(7.3x5.5 m) to provide quality silk-worms to cocoon farmers. The investment in rearing centers would be
$1.296 million and working capital $0.196 million. The project would also support the construction of 23,808
cocoon rearing sheds at cocoon producers households, with an investment of $14.363 million plus working
capital $2.62 million. These newly constructed or expanded facilities would be designed with improved
ventilation and sanitary wall and floor surfaces. The project would provide standard designs, necessary
construction materials, fixtures, fittings and equipment, and the farmers would provide labor to construct the
buildings. The standard designs aim to provide improved building quality to enhance cocoon production
standards, whilst minimizing the cost of construction. It has been assumed that the farmers already own the



Page 32
land and are building cocoon rearing houses near their own dwellings. The project would provide all
necessary utilities to the new buildings, such as power lines, water supply, and drainage, and pools for
disinfectant and mulberry storage. The project would provide equipment, including ventilators and tools
required for propagating silk cocoons.
40.   The project would finance the improvement of two existing silkmoth egg grainages located in
Xichang and Dechang. Both grainages are in generally poor condition and lack essential facilities, such as
climate-controlled rooms for hibernation, aestivation, incubation, and male moth preservation. Improvements
are needed in the existing production, packing and laboratory areas, where building surfaces need to be
replaced with sanitary surfaces, doors and windows need to be replaced with sanitary waterproof materials,
and ventilation and lighting need to be improved. The investment proposed for the grainages includes
upgrades of the existing facilities only, and not expansion of the facilities that are already of higher capacity
than needed for the project area. The investment on upgrading the grainages would be $0.514 million, with
$0.495 million for working capital.
41.   New cocoon collecting and drying centers of 10 tVd capacity would be constructed at 16 locations
based on a new, with continuous dryers and storage facilities for a complete crop of cocoons (about 6 to 7
days). Cocoon collecting and drying centers of 5 tVd capacity would be expanded to 10 t/d at 22 locations.
The standard 10 t/d design single building would be situated on a I mu site, and has two stories with a tiled
roof. The ground floor provides a 272 m2 reception and grading area, a 280 m2 sorting and store room, a 144
m 2room for the cocoon dryer, a 24 m2 office, and 168 m2 for services equipment. The whole of the ground
floor is surrounded by a 200 mm moat as a deterrent to ants. The second floor provides 840 n2 for dried-
cocoon storage. The whole building can accommodate one complete season's crop of dried cocoons, about
250 tons. The investment on constructing and expanding drying centers in four counties would be $7.633
million, with $4.276 million for working capital.
42.   The equipment comprises a boiler of I t/h capacity, a dryer of 10 t/d capacity, power supply
equipment, water supply equipment and a water storage tank for fire protection. A small conveyor transports
cocoons from the dryer to the second floor storage area. The same machine is reversible for transporting
cocoons down to the dispatch dock. All necessary tools, scales and baskets would be included in the
investment. Offices would be provided with simple office and communications equipment. Suppliers of the
equipment purchased under the project would be required to provide local training of I man-month.
43.    The project would support the expansion of silk reeling mills and in four counties. Existing manual
reeling equipment would be replaced with modem automatic reeling equipment. The mills would be
expanded by means of automatic reelers capable of producing from 70 to 90 kg silk per end per year. The
equipment would include modem reception conveyors, peeling machines, sorting conveyors, stainless steel
cookers of improved design, and automatic reeling machines and re-reelers of improved design at all sites
lacking them. At most sites, the existing services are suitable for the expanded capacity, but where these are
inadequate, the necessary boilers, power and water supply equipment, and water storage tanks for fire
protection have been included. Office and communications equipment would be provided where these are not
now available. The investment on and expanding reeling mills in four counties, and providing modem reeling
equipment, would be $2.079 million, with $1.698 million for working capital.
Implementation.
44.   In view of the high investment cost and widely distributed nature of this component, the mission
consider that the method of implementation of the sericulture component needs to be clearly defined and to be
conveyed to all project entities at county, township, village and farmer levels by production of a clear and
concise advisory booklet. The PPMO will, therefore, produce an advisory booklet describing in detail the
mechanism of implementing this component. The draft copy of the booklet will be submitted to the Bank
mission before Project Launch Workshop, and will be discussed as part of the workshop. The approved
version of the booklet will be printed (about 25,000 copies will be required over three years) and the PPMO



Page 33
will distribute the booklet to all levels of the PMO and to all townships, villages and farmers that will
participate in the project. The booklet will need to describe the following subjects:
Farmers Level Advice. The booklet will detail implementation of project activities at household
level and will describe the following:
a) The project has designed standard buildings and equipment and production techniques for worm
and cocoon production that will improve the quality of cocoons produced by project farmers. The
booklet will briefly describe these improved technical standards for buildings and equipment.
b) Each project farmer is required to construct his worm or cocoon house to the new standards, or to
upgrade existing buildings to the new standard, in order to receive assistance from the project.
c) Each participating farmer will be eligible for two fixed packages of materials from the project to
produce high grade worms or cocoons : (i) a package of construction materials to construct a new
cocoon shed or worm rearing house, and (ii) a package of equipment including frames, shelves
and tools. Farmers that are upgrading their existing buildings will have the option to select the
equipment package only. The booklet will give details of the two standard packages.
d) Each participating farmner will need to sign a simple contract with the village committee to
implement the project and keep to the high technical standards and repayment rules required by
the project. The booklet will contain a sample form of contract.
Village Committee Contracts. The booklet will detail implementation of project activities at village
committee level and will describe the following:
a) Each participating village committee (or group of farmers) will be required to sign a contract with
the project PMO to implement the project and keep to the high technical standards and financial
rules required by the project. The booklet will contain a sample form of contract.
b) Each participating village committee will be required to submit a list (to the PMO) of farmers that
have signed contracts and will participate in the project. The booklet will contain the sample
letter/list from the village committee to the PMO.
PMO Requisition and PPMO Procurement. The booklet will detail implementation of project
activities at PMO level:
a) Based on the number of farmers in each contracted village, the PMO will submit a requisition to
the PPMO for procurement of packages of materials and equipment. The requisition will detail
the number of construction material packages and the number of equipment packages, and the
delivery instructions. The booklet will contain a sample requisition form.
b) The PPMO will procure the materials and equipment packages for the project, and will comply
with the delivery instructions.
Project Component 5 - Livestock Development US$13.29 million (6 percent of total project cost)
45.   This component aims to increase the income of project farm households through improved
livestock production. The project area has abundant natural resources and by-products which can be used
as feed, but livestock productivity is low. The major constraints are lack of quality breeds and feed,
inadequate animal husbandry management, and a poorly supported veterinary and animal husbandry
extension program. For most farmers, cattle, sheep and goat production is a sideline enterprise and
depends largely on the availability of straw, hay, leaves, wheat bran, and corn stover for fodder. Livestock
productivity's could be significantly increased if proper attention were paid to supporting services. The
project is designed to (a) improve breeds of sheep and ducks, (b) introduce ducks and rabbits as additional
income sources, (c) support pasture and feed development, and (d) strengthen animal husbandry support
services.



Page 34
46.    Sheep. The main breeds of sheep within the project area are the 3-Breed Cross (Local*Border
Leicester*Xinjiang), the Xiaoweihangyang (or Shandong) and the Xinjiang. The Xinjiang produces the
finest and the greatest quantity of wool with the highest price. It is therefore the obvious breed to choose
for the best economic returns from wool. The Xiaoweihangyang is a very fertile, large breed, which can
produce up to eight lambs/ewe/year under ideal conditions. It is the obvious breed to choose for meat
production, but its wool is poor in both quantity and quality. The 3-Breed Cross known locally as the
Semi-Fine Wool breed is used to provide wool for Yi villagers wishing to spin their own traditional
clothes. This breed is very fertile for meat, but the wool is too coarse for large scale commercial wool
production. Farmers at higher altitudes, particularly Yi people, should concentrate on the wool production
(quality and quantity) using merino type sheep, such as the Xinjiang and Mongolian merino. At lower
altitudes, farmers should try to use meat-type sheep, such as the Xiaoweihangyang breed.
47.    The project would enlarge and rehabilitate eight sheep breeding farms in Liangshan and one in
Yanbian. The main purpose of the sheep breeding farms is to breed rams for sale to farmers, but they also
provide training for farmers in sheep production and wool harvesting. The project would enlarge the
existing area of improved pasture at each farm, purchase additional breeding stock, and build additional
pens and housing for breeding stock. The project would also support 8,038 households (5,200 hhs in
Liangshan and 2,838 hhs in Yianbian) in developing sheep production.
48.    Goats. Traditional goat breeds are suitable for this area and the project would not attempt to
change them. Project intervention would be to (a) persuade farmers to shift from goats to sheep in order to
reduce the ill effects that grazing goats can have on soil erosion, (b) introduce the practice of pen-raising
instead of grazing, and (c) introduce new rams for breeding in order to prevent in-breeding. Accordingly,
the number of project goat households was reduced to 5,500 from the original proposal in Liangshan and
to 1,080 in Yanbian. The reduction was more in the mountainous regions of Yanbian, where goat
production would be replaced by sheep production. In Yanbian all goats will be kept in pens and not
allowed to graze. The goat households in Liangshan would be in Huidong, Huili and Mianning. This
problem is not as evident in these counties, particularly in counties such as Mianning, where there are
already significant numbers of goats being raised as an alternative to pigs on relatively flat land not subject
to soil erosion. A close watch will be kept by the PMO on all goat raising households.
49.    Ducks. The project would support 500 duck households to produce an additional 1.75 million
ducks annually in Dechang County. The households would fatten 3,500 ducks annually, in five batches,
each batch fattened for two months from day-old purchase to slaughter. It would also finance the
expansion and redevelopment of an existing privately owned duck breeding farm near Dechang. About
0.5 million ducks would be processed by farmers and 1.0 million would be processed by medium and
small specialized-household operations and local slaughtered companies in Dechang and Xichang. The
company running the breeding farm is a shareholder in the processing facility. A privately owned feed
mill would produce the feed concentrates necessary to feed the additional ducks produced by the project.
50.    Rabbits. Large scale commercial production of rabbits is new to the project area and the rabbit
breeding farm at Xichang is still at an early stage of development, though its future appears bright. It is
well managed and commercially oriented. Rabbit rearing is an ideal activity for poor farm households,
especially for Yi women. Unlike poultry, rabbits do not require large quantities of expensive feed
concentrates, because they can digest pasture like ruminants such as sheep and cattle. The quantity of feed
required per rabbit is relatively small, and the pasture can be grown in a small area, such as a household
garden, from where it is cut and carried daily to the rabbits. Rabbits are extremely fertile, producing up to
40 surviving offspring per doe per year in five batches. Rabbit raising has been very successful in other
projects such as the Songliao Plain Agricultural Development Project (ADP) in Liaoning Province and the
Shandong ADP in the Yi Meng Mountains area.
51.    Success in rabbit production, however, is not automatic, since rabbits are susceptible to disease
unless proper management techniques are followed. Suitable training programs for potential rabbit
households, therefore, have to be implemented to ensure that they fully understand the management and



Page 35
disease prevention measures required to minimize mortality rates and ensure that rabbits reach the required
live weights required for slaughter at three months of age. Concerning marketing, rabbits are not widely
eaten in the project area at present and would have to be transported over quite long distances to city
markets. For these reasons, only a small rabbit component would be introduced under the project in
Liangshan. Two hundred households would each receive loans sufficient to buy 20 breeding does and four
bucks, as well as cages and materials for suitable housing.
52.   The creation of a successful and profitable household rabbit industry would be dependent upon
private companies such as the Xichang Rabbit Breeding Farm for the processing and marketing of rabbit
meat. The farm would supply breeding rabbits to farmers, provide transport to the processing plant,
convert live rabbits into meat, and store and market the meat. The Livestock Bureau would have an
important role in the selection of suitable poor farmers interested in borrowing from the project to establish
rabbit breeding and fattening facilities, as well as providing the necessary technical base required for
training potential farmers in disease prevention and management skills required for profitable rabbit
production.
53.   Pasture Development. The feed required to meet the additional demands from the various
livestock species included in the project would be 427,000 tons of fresh pasture, 19,000 tons of corn grain,
3,000 tons of wheat bran and 4,000 -tons of soybean cake (detailed in the Feed Balance Table). The county
PMOs believe it will not be difficult to provide the additional feed required with the exception of soybean
cake, most of which is imported from outside Sichuan. The additional quantities of soybean cake required,
however, are quite small.
54.   The Provincial government has been paying a lot of attention to the development of pasture and
feed for livestock. It has provided substantial budget (Y 10 million/p.a.) for the development of grass
varieties, grassland improvement and demonstration plots.  In Liangshan, grassland improvement
programs were carried out in Ganzi and Aba Autonomous Prefectures. The development of new grass
seed varieties was carried out in Puge with the production of 400,000 kg of grass seeds each year. In
Huili, there are 10,000 mu demonstration plots to show the rotation of grass and grain production. There
were also pasture demonstration program in Yianbian.
55.   Provincial government has recently introduced the idea of farmer responsibility for grazing land to
solve the problem of grazing land development and maintenance. It has allocated communal grazing land
surrounding villages to individual households, based on 50 mu/hh (3.3 ha) at high elevation and 20 mu/hh
(1.33 ha) at the lower elevation. The certificate will specified the grazing right of the households for 50
years. As a result, the project would not finance the development of communal grassland as originally
planned but would assist project farmers to develop 5 mu of grassland or grow other types of livestock
feed.
56.   A research program would be designed to demonstrate the economic benefits to villagers from
pasture improvement. The increase in productivity of the improved pasture compared with native pasture,
especially during periods of feed shortage, and the variations in dry matter production/ha/month from
improved pastures during the year would be major topics of the research program. Optimum improved
pasture species, fertilizer rates, timing and methods of sowing and of maintenance fertilizer applications
would also be included in the research program. Demonstration plots would be developed in three
counties and would also be used for training.
57.   Livestock Support. Livestock support would include training, research and drug and veterinary
supplies. Training would be provided to farmers and technicians to train them in various aspects of wool
processing, including washing and sorting wool into various classes before marketing. Women farmers
would be particularly targeted. Training for technicians would be limited to study tours and training
within China, except for sheep and wool, which would also include training, possibly in Australia or New
Zealand in wool marketing, harvesting, classing, husbandry, management and temperate pasture
production. Research programs would include pasture demonstrations in selected villages within the



Page 36
project area (referred to previously) as well as various aspects of livestock production covering the five
species of livestock covered in the livestock component. A number of village training centers would be
established within the project area for training farmers. Project investment would also include the
refurbishment and supply of drugs and chemicals to a number of township veterinary stations and the
supply of a number of vehicles for livestock support services.
Project Component 6 - Agro-Processing US$12.72 million (5% of total project cost)
58.    The agro-processing component aims to provide essential linkages between production, processing
and marketing of farm produce and cash crops generated under the project. The project would finance a rice
processing mill, a seed processing plant, a new wholesale market, and three ventilated fruit stores. Two of
these sub-components, Xichang rice mill and Xichang seed company, will be part of a new grain products
business park to be setup on the outskirts of Xichang. A major shareholder in this business park would be
Panxi Foods Ltd, a private sector food processing and marketing company with a wide distribution network in
southern China. This company will take a shareholding in both the seed mill and rice mill, and will construct
(at its own cost) an animal feed mill to utilize the by-products from the two plants.
59.    Rice mill. The project would support the construction of a new rice-processing mill at Xichang grain
products business-park, in conjunction with the grain base development. The mill would have capacity to
process 29,790 t/y of paddy into polished rice for sale to urban centers, and would improve the recovery and
utilization of bran, husk and rice polish as by-products. The processing plant would be equipped under the
project with three modern rice processing lines of 3 t/h capacity and be provided with storage buildings, small
administrative offices and trucks. The mill would buy field-dried paddy as raw material and the process lines
would remove husk, bran and broken rice as separate by-products and produce fine polished rice as the
finished product. The mill would also process fine aromatic rice in small quantities. This investment would
provide hygienic processing and packing facilities with reliable product and by-product recovery that would
have sufficient capacity for future demand. This would link well with the crop development component of the
project and would provide added value from products and by-products. The capital investment in the mill
would be Y 21.407 million, plus working capital of Y 9.66 million.
Investment in Xichang Rice Mill
9 Vh capacity (3 lines of 3 tth)
Y'OOO
Land                    4,400.0
Civil work                966.0
Buildings               3,724.0
Equipment               8,508.0
ICB
NCB               912.0
Vehicles                  120.0
Training                  30.0
Others                   721.0
Fees                    2,026.3
Customs duty               0.0
Working capital         9,660.0
Total 11000     31,067.0
60.    Seed processing proposals. The project would support the construction of one seed processing
plant at Xichang grain products business-park in conjunction with grain base development. The plant
would be equipped under the project with modem seed processing lines and provided with seed storage
buildings, an administrative office, a laboratory, a classroom, and essential utilities. The seed company
has commercialized its activities by forming a joint stock company between Panxi Food Company (70%) a
private sector food processor, and Dechang County Seed Company. This proposal would link well with
the crop development component of the project and would provide added value from products and by-
products.



Page 37
61.    The intake processing capacity of the seed processing plant would be 3 t/h, processing mainly rice,
wheat and maize, with small volumes of vegetable seeds. This sub-component would provide 5,970 t/y of
high quality seeds to the project area, thereby reducing the need to import seeds from other provinces, and
providing local control over the quality and quantity of fine seeds available to project farmers. The capital
investment in this sub-component would be Y 16.118 million plus Y 13.61 million for working capital.
Investment in Xichang Seed Mill
3 tVh capacity
YOOO
Land                     4,350.0
Civil work                979.0
Buildings               4.106.0
Equipment               3,609.0
ICB
NCB                709.0
Vehicles                  150.0
Training                  216.0
Others                    951.0
Fees                     1048.1
Customs duty                0.0
Working capital         13,610.0
Total 'OOO     29,728.1
62.    Xichang Wholesale Market. The existing fruit and vegetable wholesale market at Xichang is
located in the city center, and is congested and enclosed by other buildings. It would be difficult and
expensive to expand or improve this market in its present location, but the existing market cannot cope
adequately with existing market volumes, and is seen as a constraint to expansion of production and marketing
of fruit and vegetables in the area. The project sponsors propose, therefore, to construct a new market about
0.5 km from the town center, that would adequately handle both the existing and planned incremental
production of fruit and vegetable. The new market would be constructed on a 30 mu site and could handle
over 900 tons per day of agricultural and horticultural produce. It would be the major wholesale market in the
Anning Valley, and would be owned by Xichang Municipal Government. The market would be operated by
market traders and administered by a market manager. Traders from Chengdu, Kunming, Chongqing and
other major cities would be given generous incentives to take up trading activities at the market and to move
permanently to Xichang. The incentives would include a residential license, housing permit, educational
arrangements for traders children, and tax free status for the first six months of operation. A communications
and information room would connect the market to other related markets in the region.
63.    Wholesale Market Design. The market would be located on a 30 mu site located 0.5 Km from the
down-town area of Xichang, and would include an integrated cool store and ventilated store for fruit and
vegetables. The market shed would be an open structure based on 20m x 20m building grids, with a light
weight multiple tetra-formed roof. The overall market structure area would be approximately 7,000 rn
including 6,000 rn2 covered market floor. The building would be completely open at both ends, but closed at
both sides by a row of stores and offices running the length of the building. These would be arranged with
cool stores and ventilated stores at ground level, with offices and communications center above. Four site
entrances would each be 30 m wide, and the front boundary would incorporate a block of shops and offices.
The rear boundary would incorporate public toilets, and trash removal bins. The capital investment would be
Y 26.3 million and incremental working capital Y 0.86 million.



Page 38
Investment in Xichang Wholesale Market
rehabilitation and new cold store
900 t/d market capacity
Y'OOO
Land                         6,000.0
Civil work                    2,402.0
Buildings                     8,026.0
Equipment                     1,962.4
ICB
NCB                   3,453.1
Vehicles                       120.0
Training                       520.0
Others                        1,292.7
Fees                         2,489.6
Customs duty                     0.0
Working capital                860.0
- Total XI'000        27,162.3
64.    Ventilated Fruit Stores. Three new ventilated fruit stores of 500 mi storage area would be designed
and constructed in Yanbian, Renhe and Miyi counties of Panzhihua Municipality. Each would be equipped
with electrical exhausted fans and some air conditioning. The designs have been discussed with the project
sponsors, and investment costs have been based on previous Bank experience in other projects. The capital
investment in this sub-component would be Y 5.51 million plus working capital of Y 1.52 million for the three
stores.
Investment in Panzhihua
Three Ventilated Fruit Stores
3 x 200 ton capacity
Y'OOO
Land                        1,080.0
Civil work                   426.0
Buildings                   1,622.0
Equipment                      0.0
ICB
NCB                 1,104.0
Vehicles                     450.0
Training                       0.0
Others                       303.0
Fees                         521.1
Customs duty                   0.0
Working capital             1,520.0
Total X'000         7,026.1
Project Component 7 - Institutional Strengthening US$8.9 million (4% of total project cost)
65.    Institutional Strengthening. This component includes support services for crop, orchard, and
livestock development and project management. The project would support agricultural and livestock
support services by financing 35 agricultural township extension stations in Liangshan prefecture and 25
stations in Panzhihua Municipal, 10 livestock township training centers in Liangshan and 2 centers in
Panzhihua, 50 township veterinary stations in Liangshan and 16 stations in Panzhihua. For project
management, it would support 9 project management offices (PMO) in Liangshan, and 14 PMO for
Panzhihua municipal, detail is shown in the following table:



Page 39
Liangshan Prefecture      Panzhihua Municipal
No. of Unit    Costs      No. of Units     Costs
(Y'000)                    (Y'000)
Agri. Township Extension Station             35        2.595             25        1,500
Live. Township Training Center               10        617               2         133
Live. Township Veterinary Station            50        2,450             16        784
Total Support Services                       95        5.662             43        2,417
Agricultural PMO/I                            7        16.022            6         10,130
Orchard PMO                                   1        8.053             1         11,998
Vegetable PMO /2                                                         6         5,821
Livestock PMO                                 1        5.459             1         1,107
Total PMO                                     9        29.534            14        29.056
/1 In Liangshan. one PMO at prefecture level and one for each of six project counties.
In Panzhihua. one PMO at municipal level and one for each of five project counties.
/2 In Panzhihua, one PMO at municipal level and one for each of five project counties.
66.    For the agricultural township extension stations, the major support from  the project would be
improving existing building for office and classroom, 100 m2 for each station, simple equipment for
extension use at farm level, e.g., motor sprayer, mobile water pump, water hose, and some laboratory
equipment, e.g., balance scale, dryer, cultivated box, and etc.
67.    For the livestock township training center, the project would support a small classroom (50 m2 )for
each center with training equipment, (e.g., projector, TV set, bookcase, filing cabinet) and some tables and
chairs.
68.    For the livestock township veterinary stations, the project would provide some support to maintain
the existing buildings (60 m2 for each station) and build an Al room (60 m2 for each station), and provide
equipment for strengthening their services, e.g., Al equipment (liquid ammonia tanks, disinfecting
machine, and refrigerator), microscope, medicine cabinet, emergency kit, other medical instrument, and
some office furniture.
69.    The project would support the project management office (PMO) in strengthening its staffing and
facilities for providing good project management during implementation. Agricultural PMO in both
Liangshan and Panzhihua would include prefecture/municipal and county levels, Vegetable PMO, which
would include municipal and county level PMOs. PMO at all levels would receive training. Training
would also be provided to technicians and farmers (including women). Research, extension, design costs
for these components would be included in the project investment costs. Office equipment (computer,
photocopy machine, and facsimile machine), training equipment, office furniture, and vehicles would also
be provided. Project management fee, project monitoring and evaluation, and environmental monitoring
fee are included in the PMO budget.



Page 40
Annex 3
Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project
Estimated Detailed Project Costs a/
(Local '000)                                   (USS '000)
%   %                                 ~    ~ ~~~~~%  %
Total                                              Total
Foreign    Base                                    Foreign    Base
Local       Foreign      Total      Exchange  Costs    Local    Foreign       Total    Excbange  Costs
A. Water Resource Development
Manshuiwan Scheme                          344,316.7   231,825.5    576,142.2        40      34    41,483.9  27,930.8   69,414.7         40      34
Huangqiao Scheme                            70,454.3    44,206.7    114,661.0        39       7     8,488.5  5326.1   13.814.6          39        7
Shengli Scheme                              32.418.8    18,730.0    51.1488          37       3     3.905.9   2.256.6    6.162.5         37       3
Subtotal Water Resource Development          447,1S9S   294,762.2    741,952.0         40      43    53,878.3  35.513.5   89,391.8         40      43
B. Crop Development
LiangshanGrainProduction                    46525.1    19,790.5     66,315.6         30       4     5,605.4   2,3844      7,98998        30       4
Panzhihua Grain Production                  62.1123    46.032.1    108.144.4         43       6     7,483.4   5,546.0   13,029.4         43       6
Panzhihua Vegetable Production              45.S84 6    31.994.6     77.879.2        41       5     5,528.3   3,854 8    9.383.0         41       5
Subtotal Crop Development                    1545'2.0    97,817.2    252,339.2         39      15    18,617.1   11,785 2    30(402.3       39       IS
C. Sericulture Development
LSHHSilkCocoon Production                   51.6282    41,217.7     92,845.9         44       5     6,220.3   4,966.0   11,186.2         44       5
Cocoon Drying Center - LS                   53.011.0    21.226.2     74,237.2         29      4     6,386.9   2,557.4    8,944.2         29       4
Silk Reeling Mills - LS                     14.349 1    7.315.3     21,664.4         34       1      1,728.8    881.4    2,610.2         34        1
PZH 14H Silk Cocoon Production              22.12S.4    17,665.4    39,790.8         44       2     2,665.7   2,128.4    4.794.1         44       2
Cocoon Drying Center- PZH                   22.041.8     7,796.1     29,837.9        26       2     2,655.6     939.3    3.594.9         26       2
Silk Reeling Mills - PZH                     6.4394     2,852.9       9.292.3         31      1       775.8     343.7    1.119.6         31        1
Subtotal Sericulture Development             169.594.9    98,073.5    267,t68.4        37      16   20,433.1  11,816.1   32.249.2          37       16
D. Orchard Development
Liangshan Fruit Nursery                       613i1       409.2       1,022.3        40       -        73.9      49.3      123.2         40        -
Liangshan Pomegranate Orchards              29.3545     17,286.3    46,640.8         37       3     3,536.7   2.082.7    5.619.4         37       3
Liangshan Orchard House                     11.0573     3,069.0      14,126.3        22       1     1,332.2     369.8    1,702.0         22        1
PanzhihuaNursery                             2.,337.1    1,977.0     4,314.1         46       -       281.6     238.2      519.8         46        -
Panzhihua Mango Orchards                    48.463.1    28,029.6     76,492.6        37       4     5,838.9   3,377.1    9.216.0         37       4
Panzhihua Longan Orchards                   16.407 8    9.311.7     25.719.6         36       2     1,976.8   1,121.9    3,098.7         36       2
Panzhihua Orchard House                     14.572.0    5.676.4     20,248.4         28       1     1,755.7     683.9    2,439.6         28        1
Subtotal Orchard Development                 122.S048    65,759.3    188,564.1         35      11    14,795.8   7,922.8   22,718.6         35       11
E. Livestock Development
Sheep & Goats Production- Liangshan         27.601.2    26,794.8    54,396.0         49       3     3,325.4   3,228.3    6,553.7         49       3
Duck Production - Liangshan                  7.858.3    9,798.8      17,657.0        55       I       946.8   1,180.6    2.127.3         55       1
Rabbit Production - LS                        546.0       986.0       1,532.0        64       -        65.8     118.8      184.6         64        -
Sheep & Goats Production - Panzhihua        11,262.0    10.902.4    22.164.4         49       1      1,356.9   1,313.5    2,670.4        49        I
Subtotal Livestock Development                47.267.4    48,482.0    95,749.4         51       6     5,694.9   5,841.2   11,536.1         51       6
F. Agro-processing
Rice Processing Mill - LS                   20.973.7    10,067.6    31,041.2         32       2     2,526.9   1,213.0    3,739.9         32       2
Seed Processing Center - Liangshan          23.682.3    6.045.2     29,727.5         20       2     2,853.3     728.3    3.581.6         20       2
Fruit VentilatedStore-Panzhihua              5.099.6     1,926.0      7,025.6        27       -       614.4     232.1      846.5         27        -
Fruit WholesaleMarket-LS                    18.821.9    8,340.3     27,162.2         31       2     2,267.7   1,004.9    3.272.6         31       2
SubtotalAgro-processing                       68.577.4    26,379.1    94,956.5         28       6     8,262.3   3,178.2   11.440.5         28       6
G. Institutional Strengthening
Extension Services - Liangshan              31055.1     2,606.9       5,662.0        46       -       368.1     314.1      682.2         46        -
ProjectManagemnentOfflce-Liangshan          17.240.5    12,293.1    29,533.6         42       2     2,077.2   1,481.1    3.558.3         42       2
Extension Services- Panzhihua                1,330.9     1,086.1      2.417.0        45        -      160.3     130.9      291.2         45        -
ProjectManagementOffice-Panzhihua           19.754.7    9,301.3     29.056.0         32       2     2,380.1    1,120.6    3.500.7        32       2
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening          41.381.1    25,287.4    66.668.6         38       4     4,985.7   3,046.7    8.032.4         38       4
Total BASELINE COSTS                        1.051.337.4   656,560.7   1,707,898.1      38    100   126,667.2  79,103.7  205,770.9          38     100
Physical Contingencies                      74.585.2    66,862.1    141,447.3        47       8     8,986.2   8,055.7   17.041.8         47       8
Price Contingencies                        156.460.0    87,791.6    244,251.6        36      14    10,584.8   5,519.0   16,103.8         34       8
Front-end Fee                                            7.470.0      7,470.0                                   900,0      900.0
TotalProjectCosts                         1,282.382.6   818,684.4    2,101,067       39    123   146,238.1  93,578.4  239,816.5          39     116
a/ The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, is estimated at S239.8 million of which S93.6 million or 39% of the total is foreign exchange. With
the exchange rate of Y8.3 to S 1, the total investment cost is equivalent to Y2, 101..1 million. The cost estimates are based on quantities derived from the preliminary
designs and unit prices prevailing in 1997. The total costs exclude taxes. Physical contingencies are estimated at 15 percent for equipnment, 10 percent for civil works and
vehicles. 5 percent for others, and no physical contingency is applied to land, training, working capital, and unskilled labor. Price contingencies are based on annual
international price escalation rates for goods, works and services. Expressed in US dollar they are 4.8 percent for 1999, and 2.4 percent for the years thereafter. Price
contingencies for cost incured in Yuan are based on annual price escalation rates of 10 percent for 1999, and 5 percent for the years thereafter. No price contingency is
applied to land, working capital, and labor. Total contingencies are 16 percent of base costs in US dollar and 23 percent in Yuan.



Page 41
Estimated Project Costs
(Local                                                   (USS
'000)                                                    '000)
%       % Total                                          %        % Total
Foreign    Base                                           Foreign     Base
Local      Foreign      Total    Exchange   Costs        Local      Foreign      Total     Exchang      Costs
e
1. Investment Costs
A. Land Acquisition         40,232.0                40,232.0         -        2       4,847.2          -      4,847.2          -         2
B. Civil Works
Irrigation Civil Works   301,856.5   246,973.5   548,830.0       45        32      36,368.3    29,755.8    66,124.1        45         32
Works - Ditches          43,308.4    35,434.1    78,742.5        45         5       5,217.9    4,269.2     9,487.0         45          5
Field Work                66.816.5    54,668.1   121,484.6       45         7       8,050.2     6,586.5    14,636.7        45          7
Other Works               14,8908     12,183.3    27,074.1       45         2       1,794.1     1,467.9    3,261.9         45          2
Buildings                 77,387 2    63,316.8   140,704.1       45         8       9,323.8     7,628.5    16,952.3        45          8
Road                      15,676.5    12,826.2    28,502.7       45         2       1.888.7     1,545.3    3,434.1         45          2
Subtotal Civil Works       519,935 8   425,402.1   945,337.9       45         55     62,642.9    51,253.3   113,896.1        45         55
C. Equipment
Irrigation Equipment     24,973.8    37.460.7    62,434.5        60         4       3,008.9     4,513.3    7,522.2         60          4
Agricultural Equipment      247 5       247 5       495.0        50         -         29.8        29.8        59.6         50
Livestock Equipment         577.3       577 3     1,154.5        50         -         69.5        69.5       139.1         50          -
Processing Equipment      2.494 6    22,451.0    24,945.6        90         1        300.5     2,704.9     3,005.5         90          1
Office Equipment          2,022.9     4,720.1     6,743 0        70         -        243 7       568.7       812.4         70          -
Lab Equipment               267.5       624.2       891.7        70         -         32.2        75.2       107.4         70          -
Auxiliary Equipment        7,040.6    5,760.5    12,801.0        45         1        848.3       694.0      1,542.3        45          1
Other Equipment           16,876.6    11.251 1    28,127.7       40         2       2,033.3     1,355.6    3,388.9         40          2
Equipment Installation    2,370.1     1,939.1     4,309.2        45         -        285.5       233.6       519.2         45          -
Freight & Insurance         3992      3,592.9     3,992.1        90         -         48.1       432.9       481.0         90
Spare Parts                 169.1       958.3     1,127.4        85         -         20.4       115.5       135.8         85
Commissioning               563.2       460.8     1,024.0        45          -        67.9        55.5       123.4         45          -
Subtotal Equipment          58,002.3    90,043.5   148,045.7       61          9      6.988.2    10,848.6    17,836.8        61          9
D. Vehicles
Trucks                      776.0     6,984 0     7,760.0        90          -        93.5       841.4       934.9         90          -
Utility Vehicles            492.0     4.428.0     4,920.0        90         -         59.3       533.5       592.8         90
Other Vehicles              201.0     1,809.0     2,010.0        90         -         24.2       218.0       242.2         90          -
Subtotal Vehicles            1,469.0    13,221.0    14,690.0       90          1        177.0     1,592.9     1,769.9        90          1
E. Training & TA
Domestic Training         11,568.8    7,712.6    19,281.4        40         1       1,393.8      929.2     2,323.1         40          1
Intemational Training &     256.0     2,304 0     2,560.0        90          -        30.8       277.6       308.4         90          -
TA
Local Consultant           6,492.0          -     6,492.0         -          -       782.2           -       782.2          -          -
Scientific Research       11,226.3          -    11,226.3         -         I       1,352.6          -      1,352.6         -I
Project Monitoring &       4,599.1                4,599.1         -          -       554.1           -       554.1                     -
Evaluation
Subtotal Training & TA      34,142.2    10,016.6    44,158.8       23          3      4,113.5     1,206.8     5,320.3        23          3
F. Materials
Breeding Stock (Liv.)    32,867.0    32,867.0    65,734.0        50         4       3,959.9     3,959.9    7,919.8         50          4
Materials                 17,198.3    40,129.3    57,327.6       70         3       2,072.1    4,834.9     6,906.9         70          3
Chemicals                   195.9      1,763 3     1,959.2       90          -        23.6       212.4       236.1         90          -
Manure                   22,980.4           -    22,980.4         -         i       2,768.7          -     2,768.7          -          I
Diesel & Oil                445.5       364.5       810.0        45         -         53.7        43.9        97.6         45
Seed & Seedling           16,450.7          -    16,450.7         -         I       1,982.0          -      1,982.0         -          I
Subtotal laterials          90,137.8    75,124.1   165,261.9       45         10     10,860.0     9,051.1    19,911.1        45         10
G. Chemical Fertilizer
Fertilizer-Urea            1,273.6    11,462.7    12,736.3       90         1        153.4      1,381.0     1,534.5        90          1
Fertilizer- Phosphate       265.3     2,387.6     2,652.9        90         -         32.0       287.7       319.6         90          -
Fertilizer - Compound       943.6     8,492.7     9,436.4        90         1        113.7      1,023.2     1,136.9        90          1
Fertilizer
Fertilizer for Balance &     76.3       686.3       762.6        90         -          9.2        82.7        91.9         90
Adjustment
Other Fertilizer            154.7      1,3919     1,546.5        90         -         18.6       167.7       186.3         90          -
Subtotal Chemical            2,713.5    24,421.2    27,134.7       90         2        326.9      2,942.3     3,269.2        90          2
Fertilizer
H. Labor
Unskilled Labor          32,749.5           -    32,749.5         -         2       3,945.7          -     3,945.7          -         2



Page 42
1. Others
Resettlement               21,420.0           -     21,420.0          -         1       2,580.7           -      2,580.7           -I
Design                     42,775.5    18,332.4    61,107.9         30          4       5,153.7     2,208.7      7,362.4         30          4
Supervision                14,040.0           -     14,040.0          -         1       1,691.6           -      1,691.6           -          I
ProjectManagement&          8,515.8           -      8,515.8          -         -       1,026.0           -      1,026.0
Monitoring
Others                      8,432.0           -      8,432.0          -         -       1,015.9           -      1,015.9
Environmental              11,865.6           -     11,865.6          -         I       1,429.6           -      1,429.6           -I
Monitoring
Interest during            20,890.4                 20,890.4          -         1       2,516.9           -      2,516.9           -          I
Construction
Subtotal Others           127,939.3    18,332.4    146,271.7        13          9      15,414.4     2,208.7     17,623.1         13          9
J. Working Capital          84,022.0           -    84,022.0           -         5       10,123.1          -      10,123.1          -          5
Total Investment Costs      984,851.4   663,052.7  1,647,904.1         40        96      118,656.8    79,885.9   198,542.7         40          96
11. Recurrent Costs
A. O&M of Dam                7,710.0           -      7,710.0          -          -        928.9           -        928.9           -          -
B. O&M of Arterial &        13,990.0           -      13,990.0         -          I       1,685.5          -       1,685.5          -I
Branch Canals
C. O&M of Laterals, Farm     1,2700            -       1,270.0         -          -        153.0           -        153.0
Ditches etc.
E. Management                2,650.0           -      2,650.0          -          -        319.3           -        319.3                      -
F. Maintenance of Terrace   34,374.0           -    34,374.0           -         2       4,141.4           -      4,141.4           -          2
Total Recurrent Costs        59.994.0           -    59,994.0          -7         4       7,228.2           -      7,228.2           -          4
Total BASELINE COSTS    1,051,337.4   656,560.7  1,707.898.1           38        100     126.667.2    79,103.7   205,770.9          38        100
Physical Contingencies      74,585.2    66,862.1.    141,447.3        47         8       8,986.2      8,055.7    17,041.8         47           8
Price Contingencies        156,460.0    87,791.6   244,251.6          36         14     10,584.8      5,519.0    16,103.8         34           8
Front-end Fee                            7.470.0     7,470.0                                          900.0       900.00
Total Project Costs      1.282,382.6   818,684.4   2,101,067         39       123     146,238.1     93,578.4   239,816.5         39         116



Page 43
Annex 4
Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
('OOOYuan, constant 1997)
Present Value of Flows              Fiscal Impact
Economic        Financial
Analysis        Analysis2       Revenues        Subsidies
Benefits
1,600,772      799,073                175             123
Costs
648,635         628,244
Net Benefits:           709,556          617,676
IRR:                    25%              18%
Financial and Economic Analysis
The major benefits of the project would come from incremental agricultural and livestock
production and the incremental value of processed products. With the development of water
resources, the project would increase the supply of water to irrigate 16,650 ha of existing fields
and 3,150 ha of newly developed marginal land. The incremental production would come from
the expansion of cultivable land, increased crop yields and cropping intensity and the
improvement of new production technology. In total, annual incremental production of grain and
vegetables would be 92,160 and 70,500 tons, respectively. Incremental fruit production would
come from both the development of new orchards and the improvement of existing orchards. In
total, at full development, orchards under the project would produce 41,525 tons of high-quality
fresh fruit annually. Incremental livestock production under the project would be 21,600 tons of
meat (beef, mutton, goat and duck) annually. Additional value-added would come from rice
milling, fruit grading, silk reeling, electricity, and raw water for domestic and industrial use.
Detailed financial and economic analysis was undertaken for all components.
Financial analysis. Financial analysis was carried out based on one-hectare models for crop and
orchard development components. Livestock models were used for the livestock development
component. Incremental costs and benefits were used for improved land, and total costs and
benefits were used for new land. Financial analysis was carried out for the sericulture and agro-
processing components as an integrated system from production to processing, taking into
account all the production and processing costs and valuing the benefits from final processed
products. In the crop and livestock models, technical and institutional strengthening costs are not
included, since farmers will pay for water, veterinary services and agriculture taxes. Investment
costs and operating costs are valued at 1997 prices. Farm labor is valued at Y 10/person-day.
Prices for output are prevailing market prices. Financial Rates of Return (FRR) were calculated
for the water resource, crop, livestock, sericulture and agro-processing components as follows:
2 If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be
explained by taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The value of
financial benefits is less than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."



Page 44
Water Resources Development Component. Financial analysis was carried out for the three
project water resource schemes - Manshuiwan, Huangqiao and Shengli. The investment cost is
mainly for infrastructure and amounted to over 40 percent of total project investment costs. The
benefits would be derived from water supply for urban, industrial and agricultural uses and
electricity.
(a) Manshuiwan Water Resource Development. Investment costs for Manshuiwan include civil
works, equipment, engineering and administration, resettlement and farmer compensation, the
irrigation distribution system and on-farm works. Operating costs include recurrent costs for
pumping stations, headreach, power station, canal system, and related management.  The
subcomponent would provide irrigation water to 1,633 ha of reclaimable wasteland and 12,767 ha
of existing cultivated land, which either rely on rainfall or are partially irrigated. Crops are
grains, vegetables, oil crops and sugarcane. Manshuiwan would also provide about 380,000
m3/day of raw water for domestic and industrial use and generate 116,000 MWh of electricity per
year through the 18 MW Huangtupo Hydro Power Station, which would be constructed under the
project.
Revenues would be generated from net income from crop production on newly reclaimed land
and incremental income from improvement of existing land and water and power charges. Water
charges would be Y 0.6/mi3 for industrial use, Y 0.5/m3 for rural use, and Y 0.4/m3 for urban use.
Power charges would be Y 0.45/kWh. Revenues from crop production would come in Year 4 and
would be in full production in Year 7. Revenues from water and power charges would be
generated from Year 3 onward, with the rate progressively increasing by 10 percent per annum
reaching the full revenue level in Year 7. Based on these assumptions, the FRR for the
Manshuiwan Water Scheme is calculated to be 14 percent.
(b) Huangqiao Water Resource Development Subcomponent. Huangqiao Dam would be
constructed under the project. The benefits would be similar to those of Manshuiwan providing
water for urban and agricultural use, as well as for electricity. Investment costs include civil
works for construction of the dam, main and branch canals, power station, and water supply
system. Operating costs include recurrent costs for irrigation system maintenance and operations,
engineering and farm operations. Huangqiao Dam would provide irrigation water to 487 ha of
reclaimable wasteland and 2,193 ha of existing cultivated land (which presently rely on rainfall or
are partially irrigated). It also would sell 1.35 Mm3 of treated water to Miyi County and sell
about 3.5 MWh of electricity to the county's power company.
Revenues would come from incremental crop production and income from water and electricity
charges in the same manner and time frame as for Manshuiwan.  Based on the above
assumptions, the FRR for Huangqiao is estimated at 17 percent.
(c) Shengli Water Resource Development Subcomponent. Shengli Dam was completed in 1995.
The project would support the completion of the infrastructure facilities, which would provide
irrigation to about 2,724 ha of mainly steep lands, including 1,021 ha of current wasteland and
1,703 ha of cultivated land that now rely on rainfall. Revenues for Shengli would be from
incremental crop production and water charges. The FRR is estimated at 27 percent.
Crop Development. This component includes development of grain production in Liangshan
and Panzhihua and vegetable production in Panzhihua. The project would develop 18,160 ha for
grain production and 4,200 ha for vegetable production.  Investment costs include land
reclamation, existing land improvement, technical extension and seed propagation. The one-



Page 45
hectare models were specified for different types of investment; one for land reclamation and
another for the improvement of existing land. In the Panxi project area, double cropping is
specified since water supply is expected to be reliable. The cropping system in Liangshan would
be paddy followed by wheat and in Panzhihua paddy followed by wheat or corn. Vegetable
production would only be in Panzhihua, since vegetables can be shipped out of the region in
winter. Like grain production, vegetable production under the project would be located both on
new reclainmed land and existing land. In the financial analysis, all investment and operating
costs were taken into account. Investment cost includes civil works for land reclamation, land
improvement, lateral and on-farn works, technical extension and seed propagation. Operating
costs includle fertilizer, chemicals, irrigation water, farm tools, labor, agricultural taxes and other
costs. Incremental revenue for new reclaimed land would start in Year 3 and reach maximum in
Year 6. Incremental revenue was used for existing land improvement.
Based on these assumptions, the financial analysis for crop production shows an FRR of 42
percent for Liangshan and 34 percent for Panzhihua.  In Liangshan, investment in land
improvement yields a higher FRR than investment in newly reclaimed land. The FRR for the
former is estimated at 50 percent compared to 25 percent for the latter. A similar pattern prevails
in Panzhihua, where newly reclaimed land has FRRs ranging from 19 percent to 22 percent
depending on cropping pattern. Improvement of existing land has FRRs ranging from 57 percent
to 58 percent depending on cropping pattern. The FRRs for vegetables are estimated at 35
percent for newly reclaimed land and 46 percent for improved land.
Orchard Development. The project would develop 1,745 ha of hilly wasteland for pomegranate,
mango and longan orchards. It would rehabilitate 300 ha of existing pomegranate orchards and
develop mother tree gardens and nurseries to provide virus-free seedlings. Orchard houses would
be built in each orchard for storage of tools, pumps and pipes and as a rest house for technicians,
a training site for workers and farmers, and a fruit store during the harvest season.
Investment costs for orchards include costs for land development (explosive materials,
machinery, works and labor), irrigation facilities (water ponds, pumps, pipes and equipment), and
fertilizer (manure and chemical fertilizer). Maintenance costs after planting include fertilizer,
chemicals, irrigation water, tools and labor. Farmers will have to pay special product taxes. For
new orchards, revenue would come from fruit production, starting from Year 4 and reaching a
maximum at full production in Year 7. During Years 1-6, income would be derived from
intercropping. For rehabilitated orchards, incremental costs and benefits are used.
The orchard development component shows FRRs ranging from 19 percent to 49 percent for new
orchards and 61 percent for pomegranate rehabilitated orchards. These FRRs vary with these
ranges, depending on type of fruit, irrigation mode and difficulty of proposed land development.
The variation in benefits also depends on the type of fruit; for example, mango has lower benefits
than longan and pomegranate.
Livestock D)evelopment. The livestock development component is the major activity under the
project for poverty alleviation. The project would assist 38,545 households to earn additional
income by producing ducks, goats, sheep, cattle and rabbits. In order to provide good breeds,
duck breeding farms and ram breeding farms would be established under the project. Village
training centers and township veterinary stations would provide support services to improve
traditional raising practices.
Investment costs include the purchase of breeding stock, construction of pens and provision of
concentrate feed. Operating costs for households include feed consumption, veterinary cost,



Page 46
tools, and utilities. Benefits would come from incremental livestock production valued at market
prices. The analysis shows high FRRs for wool sheep (45 percent), duck (52 percent) and rabbits
(37 percent), due to the high value of the products. The FRR for goat production is estimated at
42 percent, higher than most of the other livestock operations, due to the low cost of production.
Sericulture. Sericulture is designed as a vertically integrated system based on the identified
market demand for reeled silk and dried cocoons for export. This includes all activities in the
sericulture system including mulberry production (2,666 ha), silkmoth egg production (166,656
boxes/y), young silkworm farming (694 households), cocoon farming (23,808 households),
cocoon drying centres (22) and reeling mills (4). Farmn households participate in mulberry leaf
production, young worm raising and cocoon raising, largely as a supplementary farming activity
since mulberry is grown on the periphery of plots rather than as a main crop.
Investment costs for egg grainage, drying centres and reeling mills include civil works (land
preparation and buildings), equipment, vehicles, training, technical assistance, design costs,
overhead during construction, taxes and duties, and working capital. Operating costs include the
variable cost of raw materials and packing materials, casual labor, and utilities and fixed costs
covers workers salaries and welfare, office overheads, insurance, maintenance of buildings,
equipment and vehicles, and marketing promotion.
Investment costs for households would be limited to provision of materials for civil works (power
and water supply, drainage and disinfectant pool), rehabilitation of existing worm and cocoon
houses, cocoon raising tools and equipment, and fees associated with participation in the project.
Operating costs include raw materials including mulberry leaf, young silk worms, silk worm
rearing costs, consumables and utilities.
Financial analysis has been carried out for sericulture sub-components and the estimated FRRs
for reeling mills, drying centres and cocoon farmers range from 21 percent to 43 percent. Young
worm farming would produce a low FRR (about 18%), but these farmers a) provide a service to
cocoon farmers in their community, and b) also produce cocoons at a high FRR of 43%. Their
combined operation of worm raising and cocoon raising provides an acceptable return of about
26%.
Agro-processing. There are four processing sub-components: a rice mill, a seed processing mill,
a wholesale market and three fruit stores. A total of six enterprises would participate in the
project.  Investment costs include civil works (land preparation and buildings), equipment,
vehicles, training and technical assistance, design costs, overhead during construction, taxes and
duties, and working capital. Operating costs include variable costs for raw materials and packing
materials, casual labor, utilities, and fixed costs for workers salaries and welfare, office
overheads, insurance, maintenance of buildings, equipment, and vehicles, and marketing
promotion. Financial analyses were undertaken for each enterprise. The FRRs range from 20
percent to 23 percent before tax and debt servicing.
Project FRR. Financial analysis was also carried out for the total project. Assuming that the
cost and benefit streams would be as specified above, the FRR of the project is estimated at 18
percent. Detailed analysis can be found in the Project Files.



Page 47
Economic Analysis. Economic analysis has been carried out for all components (water
resources, crop, orchard, livestock, sericulture, agro-processing) and for the project as a whole.
Investment costs include all the investment costs that would be incurred under the project,
including costs for institutional strengthening, research, training, and crop and livestock
extension. Operating costs include all materials required for production including labor. All
costs are valued at constant 1997 border prices and adjusted for physical contingencies. Taxes
and subsidies and interest payment are excluded.
World Bank price projections of export prices actually realized by China were used to estimate
farm gate economic prices for traded goods in constant 1997 terms. Economic prices for non-
traded goods were estimated using conversion factors. These conversion factors were estimated
based on an analysis of the deviation of social opportunity costs from the actual financial prices
prevailing in Sichuan caused by tax and price distortions in non-traded goods. All economic
values were converted to local currency at the prevailing official exchange rate of Y 8.3 to US$1.
Water costs are estimated at Y 0.1/mr3. Farm and unskilled labor is valued at Y 8.0 per day, 80
percent of the prevailing average wage rate of about Y 10 in the project area, representing the
opportunity cost of labor in the project area.
The results of the analysis show that the project has acceptable economic rates of return (ERRs)
for all subcomponents and for the project as a whole. The ERR for the water resources
development component is estimated at 17 percent. The ERRs for Manshuiwan is estimated at 14
percent, and Huangqiao is estimated at 17 percent, while the ERR for Shengli is estimated at 26
percent. Water resource development always has high investment costs; however, it has long
term benefits and these ERRs are higher than usual for water resources development. The high
ERR for Slhengli Dam reflects the benefits accrued from the sunk cost of not having to invest in
the dam.
Investment in grain and vegetable development shows a high ERR of 39 percent. The project
would enable substantial incremental yield and production from double cropping and the high
value of vegetables. Investment in orchard development has an ERR of 29 percent, lower than
for grain production, since the initial investment in orchard development is higher than for grain
and benefits are delayed. This ERR is similar to those for comparable investments in orchards in
other projects. The livestock ERR is estimated at 19 percent, a rate which is lower than for crop
and orchard development but acceptable for household livestock production. Sericulture and
other agro-processing components show ERRs of 29 percent and 20 percent, respectively.
Total Project. Based on the above analysis, the project's ERR is 25 percent. Its net present
value (at a 12 percent discount rate) is Y 1.60 billion. Detailed analysis can be found in Annex 4,
Table 1.



Page 48
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
The major risk in this project is the possible delay in completing the Daqiao Dam. If there were
such a delay, it would affect the project's crop production. A delay of project implementation by
one year would reduce the ERR to 24 percent. Another element of risk arises from changing
markets and input and output prices. Sensitivity analysis was carried out to evaluate the
sensitivity of the project's ERR to price and cost variations. The project is not very sensitive to
an increase in investment and operating costs. If the investment cost were to increase by 10
percent, the ERR would be reduced to 23 percent; if operating costs were to increase by 10
percent, the ERR would be reduced to 22 percent. The livestock and agro-processing components
are sensitive to output prices; a 10 percent fall in prices of commodities in these two components
would reduce their ERRs to 12 and 10 percent, respectively. However, an analysis of switching
values shows that the project ERR is robust. It would take a reduction in total benefits of 24
percent or an increase in total costs of 32 percent to bring the project ERR down to 12 percent.
The results of the analysis are summarized in Annex 4 Table 2 and the detailed analysis can be
found in the Project Files.



Page 49
Annex 4
Table 1
Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project
Summary of Economic Analysis
Annual           NPV         Economic
Component                     Inc. Net Return     @ 12%      Rate of Return
(Y'000)         (Y'000)          %
1. Water Resource
- Manshuiwan Water Resource      134,468         81,479           14
- Huangqiao Irrigation           31,740          35,133           17
- Shengli Irrigation             35,789          76,897           26
Total Water Resource            201,998         238,130           17
2. Grain and Vegetables           153,654        523,544          39
3. Orchard Development           205,560         418,125          30
4. Livestock Development          32,273          61,458           19
5. Sericulture                    85,226         287,019          29
6. Agro-processing                30,558          63,578          20
Total Project                  709,556         1,600,772        25



Page so
Annex 4
Table 2
Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project
Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
Switching Value @ 12%    Price Falls Investment Operating
Base Case ------------------------------------  by 10%    Costs Inc. Costs Inc.
Component                     ERR      Costs   Benefits Costs &             by 10%    by 10%
Benefits
1. Water Resource
- Manshuiwan Water            14        7.0     -6.5       3.3       11        13        13
Resource
- Huangqiao Irrigation        17       21.6    -17.8    21.6         13        15        15
- Shengli Irrigation          26       40.0    -28.8      16.8       22        25        24
Total Water Resource          17       22.4    -18.3      10.0      14         16        16
2. Grain and Vegetables        39       58.5     -37      22.7       31         35        36
3. Orchard Development         30       135      -56.9    43.0       27         27        29
4. Livestock Development       19       11.5    -10.3      5.4        9         17        14
5. Sericulture                 29       19.3    -16.2      8.6       20         27        22
6. Agro-processing             20       8.6      -7.9      4.1       13         19        12
Total Project               25        32.2    -24.3      13.8      20         23        22



Page 51
Annex 5
Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending 2003
(US$ mil., constant 1997)
Implementation Period                Operational Period
99      00    01    02    03    04    05         06    07    08
Project Costs
Investment Costs         67.7    81.0   48.0  24.0   9.2
Recurrent Costs           0.2      0.3    1.0   2.0   4.2   4.2   4.2    4.2    4.0   4.2
Total                 67.9    81.3   49.0  26.0  13.4   4.2   4.2    4.2    4.0   4.2
Financing Sources (% of
total project costs)
IBRD/IDA                 34.0/e   46.4   24.0  11.0   4.2
Co-financiers
Government
Central                6.9      6.9    6.0   2.0
Local                 11.6    11.6    6.0   5.0   4.8
User Fees/Beneficiaries   1.7      1.8    1.0   0.0   0.4
Commercial Banks and      0.7      0.7    0.0   0.0   0.2
Farmers                  13.9    13.9   10.0   5.0   3.8
Others
Total                 68.8    81.3   49.0  26.0  13.4   4.2   4.2    4.2    4.0   4.2
Main assumptions:
/a Financing plan is based on total Project costs by year including contingencies.
/b Bank's financing includes $90. million of IBRD and $30 million equivalent of IDA.
/c Government financing includes funds from various sources.
/d Beneficiaries' contributions are agro-processing own equity and farmers' labor.
/e Including US$0.9 million (i.e. 1% front-end fee on IBRD loan)



Page 52
Annex 6
Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The Bank's Procurement Guidelines (January 1995, revised January and August 1996 and
September 1997) and the guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997
and revised September 1997) would be applied to all Bank-financed procurement. The Bank-
approved Chinese Model Bidding Documents would be adopted for all International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for goods and works and the Standard
Bid Evaluation Form would be used. In the case where no model documents exist, the Borrower
must use the relevant Bank Standard Document. Goods under ICB and office equipment under
NCB would be packaged for centralized procurement by the Provincial PMO. A specialized
procurement agency have been selected to provide assistance. The PPMO would have the
responsibility to ensure that the NCB for works, goods, and services which is subject to Bank's
prior review would be carried out in accordance to Bank's procurement guidelines.  The
implementation agencies of the participating prefectures and districts, with guidance from the
PPMO would manage their own procurement for works, goods, and training not covered by the
PPMO. The procurement profile is shown in Annex 6, Table A.
A. Procurement of Works
Works valued US$134.6 million would be required under the project to support water resources
infrastructure works, water conveyance systems, land reclamation, land improvement, on-farm
works, roads and buildings. It would cover the cost of earthworks, mechanical equipment and its
installation, materials and machinery for the construction of the weir, hydropower station and
structures and canal systems to supply water for irrigation, industrial and domestic use. Building
construction contracts would cover the supply of construction materials and the construction work
at each project site. Apart from the tender for the weir and headreach of the Manshuiwan
subcomponent (worth US$25.8 million), all other works would be spread over 15 counties in two
prefectures, carried out over five years, and would be too dispersed and too small (individual
contract amounts of less than US$10 million) to attract foreign contractors.
Approximately 19 percent of the works (US$25.8 million) would be procured on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), while about 49 percent (US$66.4 million) with
contracts costing in excess of US$200,000 would be procured under NCB procedures acceptable
to the Bank. The remaining civil works about 32 percent (US$42.4 million) with contracts
costing less than US$200,000 would be divided in two groups. Thefirst group comprises small
scale and labor intensive works, including land reclamation, land development, on-farm works
and access roads under the agriculture crop component, widely scattered over numerous local
communities throughout the project area, of which each package would cost less than
US$200,000 equivalent. They would not be of interest to contractors. With the prior agreement
of the Bank, these works, about US$27.7 million worth in individual assignments not exceeding
US$200,000, would be carried out under force account and beneficiary participation
arrangements to best utilize the local know-how, available materials and available labor intensive
technologies. The implementation of these minor works would be managed by the water
conservancy county offices and the technical bureaus with guidance from the County PMO.
Payments for these works under force account and beneficiary participation arrangements would
based on outputs, applying unit prices and quantities agreed annually with the Bank.



Page 53
The second group of small civil works, which are valued at US$14.7 million and include houses
in orchards and for cocoon rearing households, livestock pens and other small structures, would
be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained
from three qualified domestic contractors. Each contract would be less than US$200,000
equivalent. The invitation would include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank,
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award would be made to the contractor who offers
the lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully. All civil works contracts would include the supply of
construction materials.
B. Procurement of Goods
The project would require goods valued at US$61.4 million. To the extent practicable, contracts
for goods would be grouped into packages estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more.
These goods packages, which are valued at US$15.8 million, would be procured under ICB
procedures. They include vehicles (US$2.0 million), fertilizer and chemicals (US$3.5 million),
power generating (US$6.6 million) and sericulture and agro-processing (US$3.9 million)
equipment. A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the CIF price of imported goods or the
actual customs duties and taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed to qualified domestic bidders.
Other equipment and materials worth US$13.7 million, including livestock, farm and orchard
machinery, miscellaneous irrigation support and household cocoon production equipment, in
packages valued at less than US$200,000 would be procured through NCB procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
Minor laboratory and office equipment, valued at US$1.3 million, would be procured through
Limited International Bidding (LIB). The remaining goods, in packages valued at less than
US$50,000, mostly small equipment under the agriculture, livestock, sericulture and agro-
processing components worth US$4.0 million, and materials valued at US$12.2 million [breeding
stock (US$9.1 million), seeds (US$1.0 million), fruit seedlings (US$1.5 million), and small
quantity of fertilizer and chemical (0.6 million)] would be procured using national shopping
procedures, requiring at least three price quotations. The breeding stock, seeds and fruit seedlings
under the project would be procured by individual households from local markets and suppliers.
Procurement of the initial stock of production materials by the 38 drying centers, 4 reeling mills
and 4 agro-processing plants, valued $10.9 million would be by direct purchase according to the
company production contracts with cocoon households, which will be specified in the business
development plans.
C. Procurement of Services
Research, training and technical assistance valued US$5.7 million would be undertaken under the
project. Applied research ($1.9 million) divided into 45 small contracts, none of them exceeding
US$100,000 would be contracted to provincial, prefecture and local institutes to undertake crop,
fruit and livestock applied research, field demonstration and data collection. The employment of
international and local consultants (US$900,000) would be in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers - January
1997, revised 1997". All consulting assignments over US$200,000 would be advertised in the
Development Business.  For small contracts less than US$100,000 "selection based on
consultant's qualifications" procedures would be used. "Single source selection" procedures may



Page 54
be used after prior approval from the Bank. Overseas training (US$0.4 million) and domestic
training (US$2.5 million) would be reimbursed based on programs agreed with the Bank.
D. Other Items not Financed by the Bank Group
Land acquisition and compensation for lost crops (US$5.0 million), resettlement cost (US$2.9
million), recurrent costs (US$8.2 million), tax, duties and interest during construction (US$2.8
million), vehicle (US$0.3 million), manure (US$3.2 million), design and construction supervision
(US$10.1 million) and labor (US$4.3 million), totaling US$40.7 million would be funded by
governments and beneficiaries. The design, construction and supervision firms would be selected
from a short-listed of qualified firms with terms of references and qualification appropriate for
design, construction and supervision.
Prior Review
All ICB contracts for works and goods and NCB contracts for works and goods in excess of
US$200,000 would be subject to prior review and approval. Model bidding documents prepared
and issued by the Ministry of Finance for Bank financed projects in China would be used for ICB
and NCB procurements. For the NCB procurement under the Water Resources component, bid
documents for the first three civil works and the evaluation and award recommendations for all
bids with contract exceeding US$3.0 million equivalent would be subject to prior review. This
would cover six of ten NCB contracts or about 90% of the NCB contract value of US$51.5
million. In other components, the NCB prior review would cover approximately 50 contracts,
representing 60 percent of goods and works by value. All contracts for consultant services in
excess of US$100,000 for firms and in excess of US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to
prior review. That would cover approximately 15 contracts, representing 76 percent of services
by value. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by Bank supervision missions.
Disbursement
Disbursement for equipment, machinery, vehicles, training and technical assistance would be at
100 percent of foreign expenditures for direct imports, 100 percent of the local, ex-factory costs
for locally manufactured items, and 75 percent of expenditures for other items procured locally.
Disbursement against civil works and buildings would be 50 percent of expenditures.
Disbursement for materials would be 100 percent of foreign expenditures for direct imports, 100
percent of the local, ex-factory costs for locally manufactured items, and 50 percent of
expenditures for other items procured locally.
Disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) in the case of
overseas training, study tours, domestic training and contracts for goods and works costing less
than US$200,000 and consultant contracts costing less that $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for
individual. Disbursement for works carried out under force account and beneficiary participation
arrangements would be made against statements of physical progress achieved at each site at unit
prices agreed with the Bank Group at the start of the project and subject to annual review.
Sichuan shall ensure that the initial stock of production materials under sericulture and agro-
processing subprojects will not be financed under the sub-loans until the operation plans for the
sub-projects are acceptable to the Bank Group and equipment are installed and ready for
operation.
To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account (SA in US dollar with the authorized maximum
allocation of US$8 million) would be opened at a commercial bank acceptable to Bank Group,



Page 55
with an initial deposit of US$4.5 million. The deposit will be increased to US$8 million
(equivalent to the Bank's expenditure for four months of project implementation period) when
project disbursement equals or exceeds the equivalent of SDR 20 million. Applications for
replenishment for the SA would be submitted monthly or whether the account is drawn down to
50 percent of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. To increase efficiency, the Provincial
Bureau of Finance will make payments within 2 weeks after receipt and review of withdrawal
applications. The lower level BOF will pass on the funds promptly, no later than 2 weeks after
the funds were received.
To avoid delays in the start-up of the project, Retroactive Financing of US$8 million equivalent
is recommended to cover expenditures incurred between April 15, 1998 and the date of signing of
the Loan/Credit Agreement. The activities covered are detailed in PIP.
The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003 and the Loan/Credit is expected
to close on December 31, 2004. Disbursement experience in China has been favorable and better
than Bank-Group-wide and East Asia Regional average. The project disbursement profile is
essentially in line with that for previous agricultural development and institutional building
projects in China. The estimated disbursement schedule is given in Annex 6, Table C.



Page 56
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements 3
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                            Procurement Method                           Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB            NCB            Other      N.B.F
1. Works
-Civil Works                       25.8              53.2           36.4                          115.4
(12.9)           (26.6)         (18.2)                         (57.7)
-Buildings                                           13.2            6.0                           19.2
(7.3)          (3.3)                        (10.6)
2. Goods
-Equipment and vehicles             12.3              5.8            5.6                          23.7
(12.3)            (5.8)          (5.3)                         (23.4)
-Materials                           3.5              7.9           23.1            3.2            37.7
(3.5)            (5.9)        (13.5)           (0.0)         (22.9)
3. Services
-Research & Overseas                                                 3.2                            3.2
Training and T.A
(3.2)                         (3.2)
-Domestic Training                                                   2.5                            2.5
(1.3)                         (1.3)
-Design and Supervision                                                                            10.1
10.1
(0.0)          (0.0)
4. Miscellaneous
-Land and Labor                                                                     9.4             9.4
(0.0)          (0.0)
-Recurrent Costs                                                                    8.2             8.2
(0.0)           (0.0)
-Taxes and Interest D.Const.                                                        2.8             2.8
(0.0)           (0.0)
-Resettlement Costs                                                                 2.9             2.9
(0.0)           (0.0)
-Others                                                                             3.8             3.8
(0.0)           (0.0)
5. Front-end Fee                                                    0.9                            0.9
(0.9)                         (0.9)
Total                           41.6              80.1           77.7          40.4           239.8
(28.7)           (45.6)         (45.7)          (0.0)        (120.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes land acquisition and crop compensation. manure, unskilled labor,
recurrent costs, taxes and duties, interest during construction, resettlement and design supervision costs, which would
be financed by local government and beneficiaries. TIhe selection of the firms for construction supervision would be
from a short list of qualified firms). Other procurement methods include (a) force account for works, (b) direct
contracts for research and domestic training and initial stocks of production materials, (c) Limited International Bidding
for laboratory and specialized office equipment (d) national shopping for breeding stock, seedlings, seeds, small
equipment and local produced inputs and materials and (c) front-end fee of USS0.9 million.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to bc financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
3 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for
Investment Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format
(additional to Table A, where applicable).



Page 57
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$'000 equivalent)
Consultant Senrices                 Selection Method                  Total Cost (including
Expenditure Category                                                      contingencies)
____ __  QCBS  QBS   SFB   LCS   CQ   Other  N.B.F.
/                    ~~~~~~~~C/  e
/       ~~~a/
A. Firms                           1,900               2,500   10,100        14,500
(1,900)             (1,250)  (0.0)        (3,150)
b/    df
B. Individuals                                   900   400                    1,300
(900) (400)                 (1,300)
Total              1,900         900  2,900   10,100         15,800
(1,900)      (900) (1,650)  (0)           (4,450)
Note: QCBS = Quality and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-Based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. =Not Bank-Financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
a/ Applied research contracts valued at US$1.9 million.
b/ Consultant services valued at $0.9 million.
c/ Domestic training total valued of $2.5 million.
d/ Overseas training valued at $4 million.
e/ Design, construction and supervision valued at US$10.1 million. Firms would be selected
from a short-listed of qualified firms with terms of references and qualification appropriate for
desigh, construction and supervision.



Page 58
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure      Value all   Procurement   Value all    Estimated Total Value
Category       Contracts    Method /a    Contracts   Subject to Prior Review
($ million)               ($ million)          /c
US $ millions
1. Works
>10,000       ICB          25.8                 20.5
<200/d       NCB           66.4                27.2
<50        SP/FA         42.4
Total Works                                     134.6                47.7
2. Goods
or >200      ICB          15.8                 15.8
<200        NCB           13.7                 8.2
<50          SP          28.7
Total Goods                                     58.2                 24.0
3. Services
Training        <100         Other         2.9                  2.4
Consultant      <100          CQ           0.9                  0.4
Research         <50         SFB           1.9                  0.9
Design,         >100         NBF           10.1
construction
&supervision
Total Services                                   15.8                 3.7
4. Miscellaneous                   NBF          30.3
5. Front-end Fee                                 0.9
Total Value                                     239.8
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                    75.4
/a ICB = International Competitive Bidding, NCB = National Competitive Bidding,
SP = Shopping, FA = Force Account and Beneficiary Participation, TA denotes procurement
method specified in Bank Group's Guidelines for the use of consultants and NBF denotes
non-Bank financing.
/b Thresholds for procurement methods.
/c Thresholds for Bank's prior review are: (a) All ICB contracts for works and goods and NCB
contracts for works and goods in excess of US$200,000. (b) For NCB procurement under the
Water Resources Component, bid documents for the first three civil works and the evaluation
and award recommendations for all bids with contract exceeding US$3 million and (c) all
contracts for consultant services in excess of US$ 100,000 for firms and $50,000 for
individuals.
/d Competition would be assured through local advertising; at least three bidders would be
required; on similar projects in China typically more than three bidders participate.



Page 59
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan/Credit Proceeds
Amount of the    Amount of the
Credit Allocated   Loan Allocated    % of
(Expressed in   (Expressed in   Expenditures
Categoiy          SDR Equivalent)    Dollars)     to be Financed
1. Civil works        14,280,000       41,470,000     50%
2. Equipment and       2,280,000       17,860,000     100% of foreign expen-
Vehicles                                          ditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 75% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
3. Materials           3,700,000       15,410,000     100% of foreign expen-
ditures, 100% of local*
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 50% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
4. Research, overseas    710,000        1,880,000     100%
training, study tour
and consulting services
5. Domestic training     430,000          570,000     50%
6. Fee                                    900,000     Amount due under
Section 2.04 of the Loan
Agreement
7. Unallocated                          11,910,000
TOTAL:              21,400,000      90,000,000



Page 60
Annex 6, Table D: Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA                        Disbursement                  Disbursement Profile
Fiscal Year/         Semester    Cumulative   Cumulative    Year/    Cumulative
Semester                  ($ Million)           (%)       Semester      (%)
1999                                                                Year I
Second (Jan-Jun. 1999)     10.8 a/       10.8          9        Second         0
2000                                                                 Year 2
First (Jul-Dec 1999)         6.0         16.8          14        First        30
Second (Jan-Jun. 2000)       9.6         26.4         22        Second        38
2001                                                                 Year 3
First (Jul-Dec 2000)        12.0         38.4         32         First        46
Second (Jan-Jun. 2001)      12.0         50.4         42        Second        54
2002                                                                 Year 4
First (Jul-Dec 2001)        12.0         62.4         52         First        66
Second (Jan-Jun. 2002)      12.0         74.4         62        Second        74
2003                                                                 Year 5
First (Jul-Dec 2002)        12.0         86.4         72         First        82
Second (Jan-Jun. 2003)      12.0         98.4         82        Second        90
2004                                                                 Year 6
First (Jul-Dec 2003)         9.6        108.0         90         First        94
Second (Jan-Jun. 2004)       6.0        114.0         95        Second        98
2005                                                                 Year 6
First (Jul-Dec 2004)         6.0        120.0         100        First        100
a/ Including retroactive financing of US$8 million for cover expenditure incurred between
April 15, 1998 and not more than one year before signing of the loan/credit agreement and
US$0.9 million to cover front-end fee.
Completion Date: December 31, 2003
Closing Date: December 31, 2004



Page 61
Annex 7
Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned               Actual
(Total includes Grant funding of $280,000)  (At final PCD stage)
LENP                                              363.0                 488.0
LENA                                              250.5                  92.0
LENN                                               46.5                  27.0
SPN                                               360.0
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              03/13/97             03/18/97
Appraisal mission departure                      03/23/98             06/17/98
Negotiations                                     09/14/98             11/02/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/14/98
Prepared by: Sichuan Provincial Government
Preparation assistance: FAO/CP Investment Center, PHRD Trust Fund and Australian Trust Fund
Task team members who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Rapeepun Jaisaard                  Ag. Economist-Task Team Leader
Bert Kramer                         Water Resource Specialist
Zou Youlan                                Resettlement
Arlene Reyes                              Team Assistant
David Gue                           Agro-Industries Specialist
Kerry Mcintyre                          Livestock Specialist
lan Hancock                               Agriculturist
Ashley Morton                               Sericulturist
Tong Zhong                            Agricultural Economist
Ayi Bamo                                  Sociologist
Steven Harrell                            Anthropologist
Peer Reviewers for this project
Willem van Tuijl                       Irrigation Development
Guy Alaerts                        Water Resource Development
Cees de Haan                                Livestock
Michel Debatisse                           Agro-Processing
Mary Judd                             Social Development
Robert Crooks                              Environment



Page 62
Annex 8
Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.    Project Implementation Plan for Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project.
Sichuan Provincial Project Management Office for Anning Valley Agricultural
Development Project.
October, 1997
2.    Comprehensive Project for Development of Agricultural Resources in the Anning Valley:
Social Assessment.
Ayi Bamo and Stevan Harrell (Consultants). February 19, 1998.
3.    Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project Social Assessment (Part 2).
Ayi Bamo, Consultant. July 13, 1998.
4.    Minority Nationality Development Plan for the Anning Agricultural Development Project
Task Force for Minority Nationality Development.
June 26, 1998.
B. Studies
1.    Project Preparation Report on Agro-processing and Post Harvest Facilities for Anning
Valley Agricultural Development Project.
David E. Gue, Consultant. November, 1997.
2.    Project Preparation Report on Crop Development for Anning Valley Agricultural
Development Project.
Ian Hancock, Consultant. November, 1997.
3.    Project Preparation Report on Livestock Development Component for Anning Valley
Agricultural Development Project.
Kerry McIntyre, Consultant. October, 1997.
4.    Project Preparation Report on Sericulture and Raw Silk Production for Anning Valley
Agricultural Development Project.
Ashley C. Morton, Consultant. July 1997.
C. Working Papers
1.    Detailed Project Costs.
2.    Farm Models.
3.    Financial and Economic Analysis



Page 63
D. Other
1.    Resettlement Action Plan for Manshuiwan Water Resource Scheme under Daqiao Dam.
Resettlement Study Group of PMO Daqiao Hydropower Development Corporation
General for Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project. November, 1997.
2.    Resettlement Action Plan for Huangqiao Reservoir, Miyi County.
Resettlement Study Group of Panzhihua Project Management Office. November, 1997.
3.    Summary of Resettlement Action Plans for Manshuiwan Water Resource Scheme and
Huangqiao Reservoir.
E. Water Resources Component
1.    Feasibility Study Report on Manshuiwan Left Arterial Canal work of Daqiao Irrigated
Area in Liangshan Prefecture of Sichuan Province;
Sichuan Provincial Water Conservancy and Hydroelectric Exploration Design and
Research Institute, August 1996.
2.    Feasibility Report on the First Stage Project Reservoir and Site of the Project; Section
Six, Settlement of submergence by the Reservoir and the Site of the Project;
Daqiao Hydroelectric Development Corporation, Liangshan Prefecture, Sichuan
Province, August 1996.
3.    Feasibility Study Report on Manshuiwan Canal Head of Daqiao Reservoir Irrigated Area
in Liangshan Prefecture of Sichuan Province Investment Budget Estimate;
Sichuan Provincial Water Conservancy and Hydroelectric Exploration Design and
Research Institute, September 1996.
4.    Feasibility Study Report, Irrigation Component;
Feasibility Study Group, Sichuan Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project, May
1997.
5.    Feasibility Study Report, Canal of Daqiao, Feasibility Study Group, Sichuan Anning
Valley Agricultural Development Project, May 1997.
6.    Feasibility Study Report on Manshuiwan Canal Head of Daqiao Reservoir Irrigated Area
in Liangshan Prefecture of Sichuan Province;
Investment Budget Estimate Statement.
Feasibility Study Group, Sichuan Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project,
August 1997.
7.    Feasibility Study of Daqiao Reservoir Canal System Work; World Bank Office of Daqiao
Hydroelectric Development Corp. Sichuan Province, March 1998.
8.    Feasibility Study Report, Shengli Reservoir Complete Set Sub-Project, Anning Valley
Agriculture Development Project, Panzhihua Task Division, April 1997.
9.    Feasibility Report, Huangqiao Reservoir Project, September 1997.



t Page 64
Annex 9
Statement of World Bank Loans and Credits
As of 07-Dec-98
Original Amount in USS Millions
Fiscal
Project ID    Year               Borrower                   Purpose
IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed
Number of Closed Projects: 97
Active Projects
CN-PE-3539      1998   PRC                             SUST COAST RES DEV                    100.00        0.00        0.00            100.00
CN-PE-3566      1998                                   BASIC HLTH SERVICES                     0.00       85.00        0.00             87.19
CN-PE-35698    1998   PRC                              HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                  300.00        0.00        0.00            300.00
CN-PE-3591      1998   PRC                             STATE FARMS COMMERCI                  150.00        0.00        0.00            118.43
CN-PE-3606      1998   GOC                             ENERGY CONSERVATION                    63.00        0.00        0.00             63.00
CN-PE-3614      1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN       GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP                  200.00        0.00        0.00            200.00
CN-PE-3619      1998   MINISTRY OF FINANCE             2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                  123.00        0.00        0.00            123.00
CN-PE-36414    1998   CHINA                            GUANGXI URBAN ENV.                     72.00       20.00        0.00             92.65
CN-PE-36949    1998   PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA        NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI                       250.00        0.00        0.00            242.00
CN-PE-40185    1998   PRC                              SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                   95.00        0.00        0.00             95.00
CN-PE-45788    1998   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                    230.00        0.00        0.00            230.00
CN-PE-46563    1998   PRC                              TARIM BASIN II                         90.00       60.00        0.00            151.82
CN-PE-46952    1998   PRC                              FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                  100.00      100.00        0.00            203.00
CN-PE-49700    1998   PRC                              IAIL-2                                300.00        0.00        0.00            300.00
,CN-PE-51736    1998   GOC                              E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR                  250.00        0.00        0.00            250.00
CN-PE-56491    1998   PRC                              HEBEI EARTHQUAKE                        0.00       28.40        0.00             26.33
CN-PE-34081    1997   PRC                              XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II                  430.00        0.00        0.00            381.93
CN-PE-3590      1997   PRC                             QINBA MTS. POVTY RED                   30.00      150.00        0.00            163.08
CN-PE-3635      1997   PRC                             VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                   10.00       20.00        0.00             20.40
CN-PE-3637      1997   PRC                             NATL RUR WATER III                      0.00       70.00        0.00             66.17
CN-PE-36405    1997   PRC                              WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                  400.00        0.00        0.00            336.71
CN-PE-3643      1997   PRC                             XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II                  300.00        0.00        0.00            237.28
CN-PE-3650      1997   GOC                             TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                  400.00        0.00        0.00            400.00
CN-PE-3654      1997   PRC                             HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                  400.00        0.00        0.00            357.97
CN-PE-36952    1997   PRC                              BASIC ED. IV                            0.00       85.00        0.00             56.12
CN-PE-38988    1997   PRC                              H4EILONGJIANG ADP                     120.00        0.00        0.00             97.02
CN-PE-44485    1997                                    SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                   400.00        0.00        0.00            400.00
CN-PE-34618    1996   PRC                              LABOR MARKET DEV.                      10.00       20.00        0.00             24.32
CN-PE-3507      1996   GOC                             ERTAN HYDRO II                        400.00        0.00        0.00             35.74
CN-PE-3563      1996   PRC                             ANIMAL FEED                           150.00        0.00        0.00            144.00
CN-PE-3569      1996   P.R.C.                          SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI                  260.00        0.00        7.75            114.66
CN-PE-3589      1996   PRC                             DISEASE PREVENTION                      0.00      100.00        0.00             73.21
CN-PE-3594      1996   PRC                             GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR                    60.00       90.00        0.00            130.27
CN-PE-3599      1996   YUNNAN PROV. GOV.               YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT                    125.00       25.00        0.00            141.14
CN-PE-3602      1996   PRC                             HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO                  125.00       25.00        0.00            128.19
CN-PE-3638      1996   PRC                             SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                   80.00       20.00        0.00             84.93
CN-PE-3646      1996   PRC                             CHONGQING IND POL CT                  170.00        0.00        0.00            169.68
CN-PE-3648      1996   SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT              SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE                  250.00        0.00        0.00            182.13
CN-PE-3649      1996   CHINA                           SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                    0.00      100.00        0.00             39.71
CN-PE-3652      1996   PRC                             2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                  210.00        0.00        0.00            148.70
CN-PE-36950    1996   PRC                              BASIC ED. POOR III                      0.00      100.00        0.00             15.89
CN-PE-40513    1996   PRC                              2ND HENAN PROV HWY                    210.00        0.00        0.00            181.05
CN-PE-3493      1995   PRC                             INLAND WATERWAYS                      420.00        0.00        0.00            298.09
CN-PE-3571      1995   PRC                             RAILWAYS VII                          400.00        0.00        0.00            385.18
CN-PE-3585      1995   GOC                             SHENYANG IND. REFORM                  175.00        0.00        0.00            107.97
CN-PE-3596      1995   PRC                             YANGTZE BASIN WATER                   100.00      110.00        0.00             48.13
CN-PE-3598      1995                                   LIAONING ENVIRONMENT                  110.00        0.00        0.00             70.21
CN-PE-3600      1995   PRC                             TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                  200.00        0.00        0.00            139.18
CN-PE-3603      1995   PRC                             ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE                  275.00       75.00        0.00            226.09
CN-PE-36041    1995   MOF                              FISCAL & TAX REF. b                    50.00       25.00        0.00             67.35
CN-PE-3612      1995   PRC                             XINJIANG HIGHWAY I                    150.00        0.00        0.00             63.09
CN-PE-3634      1995   PRC                             MATERNAL CHILD HEALT                    0.00       90.00        0.00             22.85
CN-PE-3636      1995   PRC                             BASIC EDUC IN POOR &                    0.00      100.00        0.00              3.91
CN-PE-3639      1995   PRC                             SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                   95.00      200.00        0.00            155.39
CN-PE-3642      1995                                   ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                   400.00        0.00        0.00            158.09
CN-PE-3647      1995   PRC                             ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                     0.00       10.00        0.00              5.77
CN-PE-36947    1995   GOC                              SICHUAN TRANSMISSION                  270.00        0.00        0.00            142.95
CN-PE-37156    1995   PRC                              IODINE DEF. DISORDER                    7.00       20.00        7.00              2.33
CN-PE-3502      1994   MOH                             RUR HEALTH MANPOWER                     0.00      110.00        0.00             34.57
CN-PE-3504      1994   PRC                             HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL H'WAYS           380.00        0.00        0.00             63.53
CN-PE-3540      1994   PRC                             LOESS PLATEAU                           0.00      150.00        0.00             34.09
CN-PE-3557      1994   PRC                             FOREST RESOURCE DEV                     0.00      200.00        0.00             53.02
CN-PE-3562      1994   PRC                             XIAOLANGDI MULTIPURPOSE               460.00        0.00        0.00              1.00



Page 65
Original Amount in USS Millions
Fiscal
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        1DA     Cancellations  Undisbursed
CN-PE-3586      1994   PRC                              SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT                  160.00        0.00       0.00             74.80
CN-PE-3593      1994   PRC                              SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                      0.00     205.00        0.00             32.82
CN-PE-3595      1994   PRC                              RED SOILS II DEVELOP                    0.00     150.00        0.00             45.15
CN-PE-3609      1994   GOC                              SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATION        255.00        0.00       0.00            133.49
CN-PE-3622      1994   SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT          SHANGHAI MTP II                       150.00        0.00       0.00             10.39
CN-PE-3626      1994   GOC                              FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                   140.00        0.00       0.00             58.63
CN-PE-3633      1994   GOVERNMENT OF PRC                TELECOMMUNICATIONS                    250.00        0.00      30.00             19.55
CN-PE-3641      1994   PRC                              YANGZHOU THERMAL POWER                350.00        0.00       0.00             77.40
CN-PE-3644      1994   PRC                              XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                 0.00      110.00       0.00             31.25
CN-PE-3473      1993   P.R.C.                           ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES                    0.00      110.00       0.00             35.92
CN-PE-3509      1993   PRC                              CHANGCHUN WAT SUPP &                    0.00      120.00      27.55             17.23
CN-PE-3512      1993   GOVT OF PEOPLES REP. OF C        SHANGHAI PORT REST.                   150.00        0.00      25.74              4.27
CN-PE-3518      1993   PRC                              GUANGDONG PROV. TRANSPORT             240.00       0.00        0.00              2.08
CN-PE-3533      1993                                   TIANJIN IND. II                        150.00       0.00       16.00             46.27
CN-PE-3559      1993   PRC                             AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI                     0.00     115.00        0.00             10.64
CN-PE-3561      1993   PRC                              SICHUAN ADP                             0.00     147.00        0.00              8.37
CN-PE-3567      1993   PRC                              EFFECTIVE TEACHING S                    0.00     100.00        0.00             37.78
CN-PE-3570      1993   PRC                             RAILWAY VI                             420.00       0.00        0.00             95.95
CN-PE-3580      1993   PRC                              SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON. PROTECT.          250.00        0.00       0.00              9.40
CN-PE-3581      1993   PRC                              HENAN PROV. TRANSPORT                 120.00        0.00       0.00             10.78
CN-PE-3592      1993   PllC                             REF. INST'L.6 PREINVEST(CRISP)          0.00      50.00        0.00             20.00
CN-PE-3597      1993   PRC                              TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO                  100.00     100.00        0.00            -47.55
CN-PE-3616      1993   PRC                              TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                   300.00        0.00       0.00             67.13
CN-PE-3623      1993   PRC                              FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A                    0.00       60.00       0.00             21.58
CN-PE-3627      1993   PRC                              GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P                  325.00     165.00        0.00            352.53
CN-PE-3632      1993   ROC                              ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                    0.00       50.00       0.00             10.95
CN-PE-3486      1992                                    RAILWAYS V                            330.00        0.00       0.00             22.48
CN-PE-3492      1992   GOC                              DAGUANGBA-HAINAN                       30.00      37.00        0.00              1.57
CN-PE-3503      1992                                    ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE                  310.00        0.00       0.00              7.84
CN-PE-3534      1992   PRC                              ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP                  220.00        0.00       0.00             23.67
CN-PE-3544      1992   PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHIN        EDUC DEV IN POOR PRO                    0.00     130.00        0.00              3.43
CN-PE-3555      1992   PRC                              GUANGDONG AG. DEVT.                     0.00     162.00        0.00               .20
CN-PE-3564      1992   BEIJING MUNICIPALITY             BEIJING ENVIRONMENT                    45.00      80.00        0.00             25.75
CN-PE-3565      1992                                    SHANGHAI METRO TRANS                    0.00      60.00        0.00              3.85
CN-PE-3568      1992   R.O.C.                           TIANJIN URB DEV 6 EN                    0.00     100.00        0.00             21.78
CN-PE-3587      1992   PRC                              RURAL WAT SUPP & SAN                    0.00     110.00        0.00               .27
CN-PE-3624      1992   MIN. OF PUBL.HEALTH              INFECTIOUS DISEASES                     0.00     129.60        0.00             34.69
CN-PE-3478      1991   PRkC                             KEY STUDIES DEVELOPM                    0.00     131.20        0.00               .76
CN-PE-3560      1991   PEtC                             HENAN AGRIC. DEVT.                      0.00     110.00        0.00              1.80
CN-PE-3582      1991   PRC                              IRRIG. AGRIC. INTENS                  147.10     187.90        0.00              2.37
Total                                                                                     14,797.10   4,908.10       114.04         10,227.88
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              9,389.84          11,047.95           20,437.79
of which has been repaid:                80.07            2,348.78           2,428.85
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:             19,511.04           8,349.40           27,860.44
Amount sold                     :                0.00                0.00               0.00
Of which repaid                               0.00               0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :           10,227.88                 .74          10,228.62
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-
Nov-98.



Page 66
Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio as 31-Oct-1 998
(In US$ Millions)
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval              Company            Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
0                      Pacific Ports              0.00     3.64     0.00     0.00     0.00     3.64     0.00     0.00
1987/92/94              China Bicycles             8.50     3.39     0.00     0.00     8.50     3.39     0.00     0.00
1993                    Shenzhen PCCP              3.76      .99     0.00     0.00     3.76      .99     0.00     0.00
1993                    Yantai Cement              14.56    1.95     0.00     7.77    14.56     1.95     0.00     7.77
1994                    China Walden JV            0.00     6.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     3.53     0.00     0.00
1994                    China Walden Mgt           0.00      .01     0.00     0.00     0.00     .01      0.00     0.00
1994                    Dalian Glass              20.50     2.40     0.00    40.50    20.50     2.40     0.00    40.50
1994                    Dynamic Fund               0.00    12.35     0.00     0.00     0.00    10.08     0.00     0.00
1994/97                 PTP Leshan                 12.20    1.00     0.00    16.00    12.20     1.00     0.00    16.00
1995                    Dupont Suzhou             24.92     4.15     0.00    52.00    24.92     4.15     0.00    52.00
1995                    Newbridge Inv.             0.00     9.40     0.00     0.00     0.00     6.10     0.00     0.00
1995                    Suzhou PVC                22.00     2.48     0.00    22.20    15.00     2.48     0.00    15.14
1996                    Beijing Hormel             5.00      .50     0.00     5.50     5.00     .50      0.00     5.50
1996                    Jingyang                  40.00     0.00     0.00   100.00    40.00     0.00     0.00   100.00
1996                    Nanjing Kumho              16.00    3.81     0.00    45.50    13.63     3.81     0.00    38.75
1996                    Tianjin Kumho             11.17     0.00     0.00    33.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1996                    Weihai Weidongri           4.22     0.00     0.00     0.00     4.22     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                    Ningbo                     0.00     2.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     2.00     0.00     0.00
1997                    Orient Finance             13.33    0.00     0.00    16.67    13.33     0.00     0.00    16.67
1997                    PTP Hubei                  12.63    0.00     0.00    25.38     8.31     0.00     0.00    16.69
1997                    Rabobank PTPC              2.40     0.00     0.00     2.40     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                    Caltex Ocean              21.00     0.00     0.00    45.00     4.45     0.00     0.00     9.55
1998                    Rabobank SHFC              2.75    - 0.00    0.00     2.75     2.25     0.00     0.00     2.25
1998                    Zhen Jing                  0.00     2.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                      234.94    56.07    0.00   414.67   190.63    46.03     0.00   320.82
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi   Paric
1998                    CHENGDU CHEMICAL           7.40     3.20     0.00     8.60
1998                    CHENGXIN-IBCA              0.00      .36     0.00     0.00
1997                    CHINEFARGE                12.80     0.00     0.00    20.00
1998                    EURECA                     0.00     3.00     0.00     0.00
1998                    JIANGSU COLINE             6.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                    NISSAN/DONGFENG           20.20     0.00     0.00    27.00
1998                    ORIENT FIN A INC           3.33     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                    PTP HOLDINGS               0.00     1.50     0.00     0.00
1998                    SCANA LESHAN               6.10     1.35     0.00     0.00
1998                    SHANGHAI KRUPP            30.00     0.00     0.00    78.44
1997                    SMC                       14.00     0.00     0.00    14.00
1996                    TIANJIN                    9.10     0.00     0.00     9.10
1998                    WUHAN CIG                  0.00     1.50     0.00     0.00
1998                    WUHAN PORT                 5.00     0.00     0.00     5.00
1998                    XIB                       50.00    20.00     0.00     0.00
1998                    ZHEJIANG COLINE            6.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1998                    ZHEN JING                  4.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:             175.43    30.91    0.00   162.14



Page 67
Annex 10
China at a Glance
East   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Asia &   middle.
China    Pcfic  Income       Development dlamond'
19917
Population, mid-year (millions)                 1,227.2    1,753    2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Abas metho, US$)                   860       970     1,230
GNP (Ahas met"od, USS bNllons)                  1,055.4    1,707    2.818                      T
Average annual growth, 199147
Population (%)                                      1.1       1.3      1.2
Labor force (%)                                     1.1       1.4      1.3     GNP          /   N             Gross
Per                          pnima
Most recent estmate (latest year available, 199147)                            capita                     enroliment
Poverty (% of populab'on below natbonal poverty #ine)  7
Urbanpopulation(%oftotalpopulation)                 32        32       42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                    70        69       69
Infant mortaity (per 1,000 Ive births)              32        38       36
Child malnutritionf(ochildren underSJ               16        18 l                      Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulabon)                90        84        84
Illiteracy (% odpopulation age 15+)                 19        17        19    I
Gross primary enrollment (%oschoofage populaion)   118       115       111       -Cbna
Male                                             119       118       116    i        Lower-middle4income goup
Female                                           117       116       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    19U       1996     197 1
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS bilons)                         148.8   295.7    825.0    935.0
Gross domestic InvesbmentGDP              28.4    37.7       39.2     38.2
Exports of goods and sernoeslGDP           5.1    12.2       19.3     22.3                   Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                29.0    35.2      41.3      42.2
Gross national savings/GDP                29.0    35.3       40.0     42.2                      T
Current account balancelGDP                0.2      2.5       1.1      4.3     Domes
Interest payments/GDP                      0.0      0.2      0.6       0.6     Domestic                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                             0.0      8.0      15.6     14.8    Savings
Total debt serviceexports                  0.0      9.6      8.8       9.2
Present value of debtlGDP                                    14.1
Present value of debtexports                                65.1
Indebtedness
1976-t6  1987-97    1996     1997   199842
(average annual growth)
GDP                                9.3    10.1      9.6      8.8                  -Ch/na
GNP per capita                     8.3     8.5      8.6       7.2        .Lower-middle-iwme group
Exports of goods and services     18.8    14.0      8.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                1976    1986      1996     1197      Growthrates of output andlnvestnent(
Agriculture                               33.2    27.1       20.2     19.7   I3T
Industry                                  42.3    44.0      49.0      50 8    20)
Manufacturing                            30.1    35.5      381      39.5 
Services                                  24.5    28a9       30.8     295    1
Private consumption                       63.3    51.4       47.6     47.2           92   93   94   95  94  97
General govemment consumption              7.7    13.4       11.1     10.5    I
lmports o goods and services               4.5    14.7      17.1      18.2    1G1                         GDP
(average annual growth)                1976-86  1987-97     1996     1197      Growth rates of exports and Imports (
Agriculture                                6.0      4.4       5.1      3.9    0 -
Industry                                  11.0    13.9      12.1      10.5   30
Manufactring                             12.8    13.3      11.7     10.5
Services                                  12.0      8.7      7.9       9.4
Private consumption                        9.3      8.8      11.9              0
General government consumption             9.4      9.6      8.3               o,
Grossdomestichvestment                    10.8    11.3        7.6      6.6           92   93   94   t6   so   97
Imports of goods and sewvices             22.5    12.8       8.8       7.2            -Exports         Cimports
Gross national product                     9.8      9.9       9.7      8.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
'The dlamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missimg,
the diamond will be incomplete.



Page 68
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986      1996      1997      In11 ton
Domestic prkcesKIao%
(X change)                                                                       25 T,p
Consumerprices                                 ..     6.6       8.3      2.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                        2.6      4.6       7.0      3.9  t5
Government finance                                                                s
(% of GDP, indudes current grants)                                                o
Current revenue                                ..   24.0       11.3     11.6   I        82   93   94   95   9s   97
Current budget balance                         ..    5.6        0.6      0.6                -GDP deflator   O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -1.8       -1.5     -1.5
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1976    1986       196       1997     Export and inport levels (USS millons)
Total exports (fob)                            .,  30,942   151,073           2'xooo
Food                                        ..  4,448    10,232
Fuel                                              3,683     5,929        ..   j 150,000.
Manufactures                                ..  19,670   129,141
Total imports (cif)                           ..  42,904   138,828              | 10000,
Food                                        ..   2002           .        .
Fuel and energy                                   2,0504    6,877
Capital goods                               ..  20,415                          .. *- I
91  s2  93  94  95  95  n7
Export price index (1995=1 00)                 ..     66
Import price index (1995=100)                         69                                     Eaxporr    G imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                             96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS rn/itons)                             1976    1986       1996      1997   1 Curent account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services              7,383   29,583   171,700  207,800     6 T
Imports of goods and services              7,125   37,472   154,100  167,200
Resource balance                            258   -7,889    17,600   40,600      4
Net inconme                                   0      176   -12,500  -10,200      2
Net currenttransfers                          0      255     4,200   10,200                o
Current account balance                     258   -7,458      9,300   40,600        9s  s2          9    95 f        T
-2
Financing items (net)                         ..   5,410    22,340   -4,900
Changes in net reserves                       ..  2,048   -31,640  -35,700   |
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..
Conversion rate (DEC, locaW/US$)             1.9      3.5       8.3      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986      1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS rillIons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  23,719   128,817  138,006
IBRD                                        ..    965      7,616    8,239                        A: 8,239
IDA                                         ..    774       7,579    7,830         G: 31,44              0: 7,830
Total debt service                            ..   2,973    15,756   19,933                                    0: 3,778
IBRD                                        ..      66       840      858
IDA                                         ..       8        73       81
E: 20,782
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             ..    155        248      255
Official crediors                           ..   1,165     4,359    2,315
Private creditors                           ..   3,693     6,454    3,835
Foreign direct investment                   ..   1,875    40,180   37,000
Portfolio equity                            ..       0     3,466        0
World Bank program                                                                              F: 66,787
Commitments                                 ..   1,120      1,900    2,425     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateal
Disburserments                              ..    607      2,097    2,275      B - IDA    D - Oter murtilareral   F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..       0       364      377      c - IMF                     G - Short-enrm
Netfiows                                    ..    607       1,734    1,898
Interest payments                           ..      75       549      562
Nettransters                                ..    532       1,185    1,335
Development Economics                                                                                             8128)



MAP SECTION



GRA N                        SERICULTURE               0     CITIES
GRAIN PRODUCT ON        C   COCOON IHOUSEHOLD)       (      REGIONAL C TIES
CHINA                                 0  SEES PRODUCTION               DRYING CENTER         -        NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
A  N  N  IN G   VALLEY                            VEGETABLES: R                  REELING MILL                   NATIONAL ROADS
ANNING    VALLEY                    ~ ~~~~~~VEGETABLE PRDC  N      LIVRSTOCK PRODUCTION            OTHER ROADS
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT   t VEGETABLEPSEED                                                                         -    RAILROAD
PROJECT                                    FRUIT EGAT                                                   COUNTY BOUNDARIES
POMEGRANATE                    C            RB     _    _  PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
4A   RARRIT
Thi ,   pd..Ed by, he Mop Design U,i. of The WoHd 9on  0   LONGAN                    AGRO PROCESSING:                PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
The f       - -d,o.  -N,h- iN--ai- sh                    MANGO                   43   RICE MILL
on ,-,p d- n. im,  In p1r- of - N Ad -nN G-- -y         WT                            SEED PROCESSING
n of s-ch bo- d--                                AE                           VENTILATED STORE
IRRIGATION              0    FRUIT WHOLESALE
YA ' A N       A       r  J       )r         -\    LESHlIAN
;                          ~~~~~~~~~~To Ch-nd,6   ~      9(            
-----N     GARZE  ZANGZU                                                   ,j
K            ZIZHIZHOLIU                                                                                                          ,
'K/'  7> X ->fXIDE /ZHAOJUE /
\-S. .M/A_                 XICHANG |
P 7 UHAGJJE                                                                   C
O ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~ ,UKK~T~ ..                                                                 7/  it A\kBto  ' N - ,     
.,         ,.- ,,        ,       \  XIHN ) ~        ~     E                                                   K  ,' uu     ',._/i
itJ  K;    EST       ~DEC iNG                ,--            A.                                                   /
Y-1.~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~.
7a                   on,   D                                                                                  7% - (  / 3
YASA                      /                .                          HUDN N                      MOGO I g,n eAn 'IwmSPL'
OQI~~~~O~~~uII    ~~~~~~HU ILI
e>Qx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. E,,,e                                                    -
Xiq~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-
-llo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lll
PANZHIHUA  J'   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-A
7--
S  IS  20  T0 O RU                 YUNNAN    P ROV IN C E                                                -
KLOMETERS                                                                                 S
o ANO) RE '                       lET SET  OT



102-00'                                              r, Ch-,d;                102,e30                                CHINA
MANSHUIWAN SUB-COMPONEN                                  (                        A               ANNING VALLEY AGRICULTURAL
-  .   '                /                      ,             /              DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
.  -  z   {         '             J          /    WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
i~ .                                    i                          . /iNANSHIIV/ANIPRCJECI             ELEVATIONS
'  - |   E  ~    :    ----       CANAL     N    9WUI  FEET
-r! y:  t   I   /     /         *       HUANGTUPO POWER STATIOr              50T00 FEET
. OTHER WEIRS                                MA rI ROADS
-  /                     ~~~~~~~~~OTHER CANALS         ----'-RAILROADIS
:oo   \os          0' ,O HERDAM                                                                                  COUNTT BOUNDARIES
'            ~~~~~~D.qiso D..) J                                                        WATERSHED BOU/IDARY
/                              R i\  NEONONGOL     FUINU I nD MONGOF
HFERR                   REP OF
SHANXIKOE
/ ,                                    0) .'  f   ;;llNChAI  SHANDONG
Miannig                                 /                                       GANS  HAANXI   HENAN             JIANGSU
/                                 --      SAVANT!~~----       AHU
'..A      '- ,  _- _                           ANHUI       SHANGHAI
-2330 [                                                                                  28'30'-  o(     SICHUAN                 HUBEI
/                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZHEJIANG
,   i                                              - -~ m ;l,,    HUNAN   JIANGl     I
MIANNING                                  .                                                                                                 TAIWAN
,  /                            .                   1 1ll00NAN      C'UANGXI   GUANGDONG
.  :                      E &    -f -        (               , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~HONG KONG
SEc  E~~~~~~~ ~MACAO,PORT
z            V-     TETNAM~
.' ' .  >   ,J  LAstPHILIPPINES
'N                Xide                   HUANG QIAO SWB-COMPONENT MPONENT 1021 
Logu  ,Puwei \  
1                          ~~~~~           ~           ~~~~~~27'0a  H-,gy..o              27 00'
NMonshuiwon Weir                     .)                                     0      5     1 0    He        DA gq       -
KILOMETERS F  - (              ,,1420 ho,       U      -
_                           I \ HL~IIoon9Eopo  *.,.'.                                                                                           - 1 _:il E    
iti. -9 aI0 -kI                                                                          - k
XIDE  -~~~!'   SB'5T'     MI  Y  I-    To,,,~C.- 1260I,    Miyi   ~ )yi-ne
I'                                                                                     K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6-0  5'
F                    ~~~~~~~       ~~izhvI
29'00'                                                                                 \ \ t \ti~' 1,  28 O I-0'-I'4
.~ ~ ~~~iI0               )i t-                                                   AB,    --            ,I 8     ((hnf ,u h /$
10 ,~                                                                           (   U  0 h           F 101'40'  SHE  \  1i50'
I                                            2000wQionghai EraWh > 07O  SUB-COMPONENT
s   /  ( \'  \     ;          >t ;                                                gc ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rjiag OF um
' 'lil<$D ii /"-' ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                                     7`                                  97 NSh\8
270CHANGJ                                                                                         O2OE                 r0 c\                            Moh,  26030
P  U  G    E DECHANG  ,   S  KIIOMETER;Bh   O
m   102,'00'    ,1g .5 *  {    l _ _ Dechang  F4           2II002 30                                                             101 502



