Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3165 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 11, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3165 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1999, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equal to ninety million dollars ($90,000,000) (the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made;
(D)
Sichuan (as defined in Section 1.02 (i) of this Agreement) will carry out 
the Project and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to 
Sichuan the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement and the proceeds of 
the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and Sichuan;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution 
No. 183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 
26, 1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such 
countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is 
prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United Nations.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Agricultural Bank of China” means the Agricultural Bank of China 
established under the laws of the Borrower and operating pursuant to the Circular of 
the Borrower's State Council on the Restoration of the Agricultural Bank of China, 
dated February 23, 1979 (State Council Document No. (1979) 56) and the Decision of the 
Borrower's State Council on the Exclusive Exercise of Central Bank Functions by the 
People's Bank of China, dated September 17, 1983 (State Council Document No. (1983) 
146), as said Circular and Decision may be amended from time to time.
(b)
“Anning River Basin Water Resources Management Committee” means the 
committee established by Sichuan on April 16, 1998, to coordinate the exploitation and 
utilization of water resources in the Anning river basin, and to provide services in 
relation thereto.
(c)
“Dam Safety Review Panel” means the Dam Safety Review Panel established 
by Sichuan's Water Conservancy Bureau in September 1997 to provide independent expert 
review and inspection services with respect to the dams and related structures 
associated with the Project.
(d)
“Loan Agreement” means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through December 2, 1997), as 
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan 
Agreement.
(e)
“Minority Nationality Development Plan” means the Minority Nationality 
Development Plan for the Project dated June 26, 1998 prepared by the Task Force for 
Minority Nationality Development established by Sichuan on March 18, 1998.
(f)
“PPMO” means the Project Management Office at the provincial level 
Page  3
referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of Part A of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(g)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and Sichuan of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(h)
“Resettlement Action Plans” means: (i) the resettlement action plan 
prepared by Sichuan's Daqiao Hydropower Development Corporation for Part A.1 of the 
Project and dated November 1997; and (ii) the resettlement action plan prepared by the 
Panzhihua Task Group for Part A.3 of the Project and dated November 1997, as the same 
may be revised from time to time in accordance with Part D of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
(i)
“Sichuan” means the Borrower’s Province of Sichuan and any successor 
thereto. 
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(k)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by Sichuan out of the 
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan to an enterprise for a Sub-project.
(l)
“Sub-project” means a specific investment project to be carried out under 
Part D or F of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1 /2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue:
(i)
from the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the 
accrual date) 
to the respective dates on which amounts shall 
be withdrawn by the Borrower 
from the Credit Account or 
canceled; and
(ii)
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next 
Page  4
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i)
at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the 
Borrower; and 
(iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of 
that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2009, and ending January 1, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 2019 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b) Whenever:
(i)
the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the 
Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level 
established annually by 
the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the 
Association's resources; and
(ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by them of 
the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such 
installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of 
the Credit as of the first 
semi-annual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on 
such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
Page  5
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Sichuan to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Sichuan therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Sichuan to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Sichuan 
on the following principal terms and conditions:
(i)
the principal amount so made available shall be equivalent in SDRs 
(determined 
on the dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account, 
or payment out of the 
Special Account) of the value of 
the currency or currencies so withdrawn or 
paid out;
(ii)
Sichuan shall repay in Dollars the principal amount so made 
available to it 
over a period of seventeen (17) years, 
including five (5) years of grace;
(iii)  the Borrower shall charge a service charge on such principal 
amount withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time at a rate 
equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum; and
(iv) 
the Borrower shall charge a commitment charge on the principal 
amount not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Sichuan pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one 
year after the Association has 
Page  6
received the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for 
each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Sichuan shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Sichuan will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01 (a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, other than the effectiveness of the Development 
Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Sichuan, and is legally binding upon Sichuan in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
 
Washington, D.C.
 
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
Page  8
financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
 Amount of the
Credit Allocated
Loan Allocated
     % of
  (Expressed in
 (Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
   Dollars)     
to be Financed
1.  
Civil works
 
  14,280,000
  41,470,000
50%
2.  
Equipment and
   2,280,000
  17,860,000
100% of foreign 
expendi-
Vehicles
tures, 100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 75% of  
local 
expenditures for other items 
procured locally
3.
Materials
  3,700,000
  15,410,000
100% of foreign 
expen- 
ditures, 100% of  
local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 50% of  
local
expenditures for 
other
items procured 
locally
4.
Research, overseas
    710,000
 
   1,880,000
100%
training, study tour
and consulting services
5.
Domestic training
    430,000
     570,000
50%
6.
Fee
     900,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of the 
Loan
Agreement
7.
Unallocated
  11,910,000
____________
 ___________
TOTAL:
 21,400,000
  90,000,000
===========
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
People's Republic of China for goods and services supplied from such region shall be 
deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR5,700,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but on or after April 15, 1998.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account, and the Bank 
Page  9
may require withdrawals from the Loan Account, to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods and works under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent 
each;
(b)
services provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each;
(c)
services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; and
(d)
research, training and study tours;
all under such terms and conditions as the Association or the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the development of the Anning 
Valley in Sichuan Province, by increasing the production, productivity, marketability 
and value-added of agriculture, horticulture and animal husbandry in the area, and to 
reduce the poverty of farmers in remote areas of said valley.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Water Resource Development
1. Manshuiwan 
Subcomponent
Construction of: (i) headworks, including a weir across the Anning River; (ii) 
conveyance and distribution systems to supply water for irrigation of an area of 
approximately 15,000 hectares, for industrial, urban and rural use and for the 
generation of electricity in Liangshan Prefecture; and (iii) a hydroelectric power 
generation station of 18 megawatt capacity at Huangtupo in Liangshan Prefecture.
2. Shengli 
Subcomponent
Completion of conveyance and distribution systems to supply water for irrigation 
of approximately 3,000 hectares of crops in Renhe District of Panzhihua City.
3. Huangqiao 
Subcomponent
Construction: of (i) Huangqiao Dam; (ii) a hydroelectric power generation 
station; (iii) conveyance and distribution systems to supply water for irrigation of 
about 2,700 hectares and for other uses in Miyi County in Panzhihua City; and (iv) a 
related water supply facility.
Part B: 
Crop Development
Reclamation of marginal land and improvement of existing land, supply of new and 
improved seeds and other agricultural inputs, improvement of agricultural extension 
services, and provision of training and research in order to increase the quantity and 
improve the quality of grain and vegetable production in Anning Valley.
Part C:
Orchard Development
Development of marginal land, improvement of existing orchards, establishment of 
seedling nurseries, and provision of training and research in order to increase the 
quality and variety of fruit production in Anning Valley.
Part D:
Sericulture Development
Page  10
Financing, through the provision of loans, of specific investment projects to 
introduce new sericulture production and processing technologies to mulberry and 
cocoon-production households, and establish and upgrade silkmoth egg grainages, young 
silkworm rearing centers and silk reeling mills. 
Part E:
Livestock Development
Supporting poor households through the improvement of livestock production, 
including by:
(a)
improvement of breeds of sheep, goats and ducks;
(b)
introduction of ducks and rabbits as additional income sources;
(c)
provision of supporting pasture and feed development; and
(d)
strengthening of animal husbandry support services.
Part F:
Agro-Processing
Financing, through the provision of loans, of specific investment projects to 
establish, expand and upgrade agricultural production, processing and marketing 
facilities, including rice processing mills, seed mills, wholesale markets, 
post-harvest facilities, orchard houses with fruit grading equipment, fruit storage 
facilities and cold stores.
Part G: 
Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Anning River Basin Water 
Resources Management Committee and the extension service capacity and institutional 
capacity of village extension facilities and project management offices at all levels 
through provision of office equipment and training.
*   *   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $4,500,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account allocated to Categories (1) 
through (5) plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR20,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  11
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section, or 
to the Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, in respect of the audit of 
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the respective General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
Page  12
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 
2 of this Schedule; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association:
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so 
request, refund to the Association or 
the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the 
case maybe, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, 
including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
