Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3165 CHA 
LOAN NUMBER 4436 CHA
Project Agreement
(Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SICHUAN PROVINCE
Dated March 11, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3165 CHA
LOAN NUMBER 4436 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 11, 1999, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank) and  SICHUAN PROVINCE (Sichuan).
WHEREAS:  (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
twenty-one million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 21,400,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that Sichuan agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to ninety 
million Dollars ($90,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that Sichuan agrees to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
Page  2
WHEREAS Sichuan, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower and the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, 
respectively) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, wherever used in 
this Agreement (except in Section 5.04 hereof), references to the Association, the 
Credit and the Credit Account shall also be deemed to be references to the Bank, the 
Loan and the Loan Account, respectively,  (except in Part A.2 of Section I and Section 
II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement).
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Sichuan declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Sichuan shall otherwise agree, Sichuan shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Sichuan shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 
1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 
and 9.09 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions referred to in 
Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement and without limitation 
thereto, Sichuan shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Association and 
Sichuan, a plan for 
the future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with Sichuan 
on said plan.
Section 2.04.  (a) Sichuan shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
Page  3
(b) 
Sichuan shall promptly inform the Association of any condition, which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Sichuan of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01.  (a)  Sichuan shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Sichuan responsible for carrying out the Project  or any part thereof.
(b) Sichuan 
shall:
(i)
have the records and  accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such 
year the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and  
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Sichuan thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall have terminated in accordance with their 
terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify Sichuan of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement.  
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
Page  4
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
  and Development
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C., 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Sichuan:
37 Nan Xin Street
Chengdu 610016
Sichuan Province
People’s Republic of China
Cable address:
Chengdu 0439
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Sichuan may be 
taken or executed by any Vice Governor thereof or such other person or persons as any 
Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Sichuan shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
Section 5.04.  As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to 
Sichuan and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have terminated 
prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of Sichuan to consult with, and to furnish information, 
documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be satisfied to 
the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, Sichuan shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are fulfilled by the 
Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
Page  5
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Authorized Representative
SICHUAN PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997 subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this  
Section I .
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of goods or works to be financed in whole or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of 
the Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 or more each, and contracts for goods 
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (except for 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region).
Page  6
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods
(a)
Limited International Bidding
Laboratory and office equipment estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.
(b)
National Competitive Bidding
With the exception of the equipment referred to in paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) 
of this Section 1 of Part C, goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $13,700,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(c)
National Shopping
The following goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract may be 
procured on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines: (i) equipment required for 
Parts C, D, E and F of the Project, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 
equivalent; (ii) breeding stock, seeds and fruit seedlings, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $12,200,000; and (iii) fertilizer and chemicals up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $600,000.
(d)
Direct Contracting
The initial stock of production materials for drying centers, reeling mills and 
agro-processing plants, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,900,000 equivalent 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of  the Guidelines.
2.
Works 
(a)
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $66,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $14,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
(c)
Force Account and Community Participation
Works costing less than $200,000 per assignment, which meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $27,700,000 
Page  7
in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be carried out by force 
account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines or by 
the use of community members hired in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more and to be awarded pursuant to Part B (international 
competitive bidding), Part C.1.(a) (limited international bidding) or Part C.2(a) 
(national competitive bidding) of this Section I, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply, provided that, with 
respect to national competitive bidding procedures under Part A of the Project, such 
procedures shall only apply to the first three contracts and to all contracts 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more.
(b) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more and to be awarded pursuant to Part C.1(d) (direct contracting) of 
this Section I, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting 
procedures, Sichuan shall provide to the Bank 
a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.  
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of Section II.
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of consultants’ services to be financed in 
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 
and 1.8 of the Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Page  8
Part C: 
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for crop, fruit and livestock applied research, field demonstration and 
data collection may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications  
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
Part A:
Project Management
Page  9
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, Sichuan shall at all 
times continue to maintain, with terms of reference and  resources acceptable to the 
Association, and with competent staff in adequate numbers:
(a) 
a Project Management Office at the provincial level to be responsible for 
the overall coordination and supervision of Project implementation, including 
procurement of goods and services and monitoring and evaluation of the progress of the 
Project;
(b)
a Project Management Office in each prefecture and county involved in 
Project implementation, to be responsible for coordination and supervision of the 
Project activities included within said office’s jurisdiction;
(c)
Project leading groups at the provincial, prefectural and county levels, 
to include (i) at each level, representatives of technical bureaus; (ii) at the 
provincial level, representatives of the Provincial Women’s Federation, and (iii) at 
the prefectural level, of the Poverty Alleviation Office and the Nationalities Affairs 
Commission, to provide guidance to their respective Project Management Offices on 
Project coordination and the resolution of Project implementation issues;
(d) 
a science and technology committee, to provide overall guidance on the 
technical aspects of the agricultural, horticultural, sericulture and livestock 
production activities under Parts B, C, D and E of the Project; and
(e) 
the Anning River Basin Water Resources Management Committee, to promote 
the involvement of a wide range of stakeholders in the water allocation and water 
management decision-making process.
2.
Sichuan shall, through the PPMO, prepare in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association and, not later than December 1 in each year, furnish to 
the Association for its review:
(a) 
an  annual work plan for the next calendar year for the main 
infrastructure works  under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project;
(b) 
an annual work plan for the next calendar year for the carrying out of 
the minor canal systems, land reclamation and land development programs referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Part A of this Schedule 2; and 
(c) 
a status report on the collection rate for user charges for the water 
provided under each of Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project.
3.
Sichuan shall ensure that action plans acceptable to the Association for the 
carrying out of minor canal systems, land reclamation and land development programs 
under the Manshuiwan subcomponent in Liangshan Prefecture under Part A.1 of the 
Project and under the Huangqiao subcomponent in Miyi County under Part A.2 of the 
Project shall be funded adequately and carried out in a timely fashion.
4. 
(a)
Sichuan shall, promptly upon completion of the facilities to be 
constructed under Part A of the Project, establish and collect from users of the water  
delivered through said facilities, water charges sufficient to cover (i) the operation 
and maintenance costs of such facilities as they are required, and (ii) a reasonable 
portion of the cost of replacement of structures, equipment and installation in 
respect of said facilities.   
(b) 
Sichuan shall review annually and adjust as necessary the above charges 
in consultation with the Association, so as to continue to give effect to the 
provisions of paragraph (a) above. 
5. 
Sichuan shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, plans for the operation and maintenance of the facilities constructed 
under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project, furnish such plans to the Association not 
later than June 30, 2000, and thereafter implement such plans, taking into account the 
Association’s comments on such plans. 
6.
Sichuan shall ensure that, not later than December 1 in each year, an annual 
plan of overseas training and study tours under the Project for the next calendar year 
Page  10
shall be furnished to the Association for its approval prior to implementation of the 
plan.
7.
Sichuan shall ensure that:
(a) 
all agrochemicals used under the Project shall be selected from a list 
acceptable to the Association; and 
(b)
the storage, handling, distribution and use of such agrochemicals shall 
be consistent with guidelines acceptable to the Association. 
8.
Sichuan shall take and cause to be taken all measures necessary to ensure that 
the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the Minority Nationality 
Development Plan.  9.
Sichuan shall ensure that the duration of land use rights 
necessary to enable Project activities to be properly implemented shall be specified 
in written contracts with all farmers carrying out activities under the Project.
Part B: 
Dam Safety
In order to ensure the safety of the existing or partially constructed Daqiao 
Dam in Mianning County and the  Shengli, Yuejin and Pingdi Dams in Renhe County and 
their associated structures (together, the Existing Dams) and the Huangqiao Dam in 
Miyi County and its associated structures (the Huangqiao Dam), all to be constructed 
under Part  A of the Project, Sichuan shall take the following actions:
1.
Sichuan shall undertake, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and complete, not later than June 30, 2000, a program of remedial works on 
the Existing Dams. 
2.
Sichuan shall convene as necessary the Dam Safety Review Panel, with membership, 
terms of reference and resources acceptable to the Association (the Panel), to be 
responsible for reviewing the adequacy of the design and construction of the Huangqiao 
Dam and the adequacy of remedial works to be carried out on the Existing Dams and for 
periodic inspections of the Huangqiao Dam and the Existing Dams.
3.
Sichuan shall ensure that the Panel shall, on the basis of guidelines acceptable 
to the Association:
(a)
undertake periodic reviews of the Huangqiao Dam and the design thereof, 
throughout the period of design and construction thereof, and of the Existing Dams 
during the period in which remedial works thereon are being carried out; 
(b)
undertake periodic reviews in order to identify any deficiencies in the 
condition of the Huangqiao Dam or the Existing Dams, or in the quality and adequacy of 
the maintenance or methods of operation thereof, which may endanger the safety of the 
Huangqiao Dam or the Existing Dams, and of persons and property located downstream 
from said dams  and promptly rectify any such deficiencies; and 
(c)
prepare and furnish to Sichuan and the Association, upon completion of 
each said review, a report of the results of said review, together with any 
recommended changes to be introduced into the design, construction or operation of the 
Huangqiao Dam or the Existing Dams.
4.
Promptly upon receipt of each report furnished by the panel to Sichuan, Sichuan 
shall introduce the changes recommended by said report, taking into account the 
comments of the Association on the matter.
Part  C:
Sub-Projects
1.
Sichuan shall make Sub-loans in accordance with procedures, and on terms and 
conditions, satisfactory to the Association, which shall include those set forth in 
Sections 2 and 3 of this Part  C.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be made:
(a)
exclusively to an enterprise selected by agreement between the 
Association and Sichuan, which enterprise shall have established to the satisfaction 
Page  11
of Sichuan, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, that:
(i)  
it is an entity possessing legal person status, with authority to 
borrow and 
carry out the Sub-project;
(ii) 
it is creditworthy and has a sound financial structure, and its 
financial 
performance for the three years preceding its 
application for Sub-loan has 
been satisfactory; and 
(iii)
it has the organization, management, staff and other resources 
required for 
the efficient carrying out of its operations; 
 
(b)
on the same terms as those applicable to loans for similar goods and 
works made by the Agricultural Bank of China; and
(c)
on conditions whereby the enterprise to which a Sub-loan is made shall 
undertake to:
(i)
carry out its operations, including its respective Sub-project, 
with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound financial, managerial, 
and agroprocessing 
practices, and appropriate health, safety and environmental 
practices acceptable to the Association, and provide promptly as needed the 
funds, and other resources required for the purpose, and maintain 
adequate 
records and accounts;
(ii)
procure the goods and works required for its respective 
Sub-project in 
accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and utilize 
said goods and works 
exclusively in the carrying out of said Sub-project;
(iii)
enable the Association to inspect the goods and the sites and 
works included 
in its respective Sub-project, the operation 
thereof and any relevant records 
and documents;
(iv)
at all times maintain and operate its equipment and facilities, 
and from time 
to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, 
all in accordance 
with sound engineering, financial and agroprocessing 
practices; and
(v)
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association 
may 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to 
the administration, 
operations and financial 
condition of said enterprise.
3.
Each Sub-loan shall be made to an enterprise for a Subproject which Sichuan 
shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal (including an environmental impact 
assessment) carried out in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
meets the following requirements:
(a)
said Subproject is technically feasible, and economically and financially 
and commercially viable;
(b)
said Sub-project is: (i) in compliance with environmental standards 
satisfactory to the Association and with all applicable laws and regulations of the 
Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental protection; and (ii) has been 
developed in accordance with the recommendations of an environmental impact assessment 
which has been approved by the environmental protection bureau responsible for the 
locality in which said Subproject is located; 
(c)
if any Sub-project for which Sichuan proposes to make a Sub-loan would 
involve the involuntary resettlement of persons, Sichuan shall ensure that all persons 
shall be resettled prior to implementation of such Sub-project in accordance with a 
resettlement plan approved by the Association, which shall have been designed on the 
basis of policies, planning principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria 
Page  12
acceptable to the Association, so as to improve the living standards and production 
levels of said persons; and  
(d)
the initial stock of production materials under a Sub-project under Part 
F of the Project shall not be financed from a Subloan until the enterprise to which 
the Subloan is made shall have prepared an operational plan satisfactory to the 
Association for such Sub-project and shall have installed all equipment necessary for 
such  Sub-project.
4.
Sichuan shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and Sichuan, comply with 
its obligations under this Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project.
Part D:
Resettlement
Sichuan shall take and cause to be taken all measures necessary to ensure that 
the Project shall be carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plans, and 
shall ensure that any proposed revision of either of the Resettlement Action Plans 
shall be furnished to the Association for its prior approval.     
Part E:
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Sichuan shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association, semi-annual reports, not later than March 1 and  September 
1 in each year, beginning September 1, 1999, integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the dates of such reports and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such dates;    
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2001, a mid-term report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on the 
matter.
