Report No. PID5517
Project Name                     China-Anning Valley Agricultural    (@+) ...
Development Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Agriculture
Project ID                       CNPE49665
Borrower                         People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency              Sichuan Provincial Planning Commission
No. 30 Duyuan St.
Chengdu, Sichuan 610016
People's Republic of China
Tel: (86-28) 660-4730
Fax: (86-28) 667-7572
Date PID Prepared                March 12, 1998
Date PID Initially Prepared      July 31, 1997
Project Appraisal Date           March, 1998
Project Board Date               November, 1998
Background
1.      Agriculture in China provides sustenance for 1.2 billion people,
contributes about 20 percent of the country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP),
and is the main source of income for some 200 million farm families. Farming
systems are intensive with heavy inputs of labor, fertilizer, small machinery
and water. Nearly half of the cropped area is irrigated. Food grains occupy
about 70% of the total cropland and account for about one-third of the value
of agricultural output. Intensive farming has enabled China to meet the basic
food requirements of its population, about 22% of the world's total, with less
than 11% of the world's arable land and to produce an increasingly
sophisticated mix of cash and commercial crops. China has embarked on a rural
reform program which has revitalized the agricultural sector, provided
impressive growth and structural change through the introduction of the
production responsibility system, increased producer prices and enlarged the
role of market forces. Small scale crop and livestock producers, as well as
agro-processing enterprises, are striving to adapt to an increasing
competitive and sophisticated consumer market and, at the same time, to
maintain environmentally sustainable production practices.
2.      China's Ninth Five Year Plan puts sustainable and stable growth in
agriculture and the rural economy at the top of its agenda. The Plan states
five goals: to achieve greater self-sufficiency in grain, to raise farmers'
standards of living, to make better use of technology, to speed up the
development of industries that use agricultural products, and to eliminate
poverty. To achieve these objectives, the Government intends to protect and
expand agricultural land, to invest in irrigation, to improve research and
technology, to expedite commercialization of agriculture and to invest in



rural and agricultural enterprises. All provinces in China except Tibet and
Qinghai have followed these strategies, and the Bank has supported them by
financing various types of agricultural development projects in these
provinces.
3.      Sichuan Province has substantially invested in    (i) expanding irrigation,
(ii) increasing the productivity of crops and livestock; and (iii) processing
farm outputs. The Sichuan Agricultural Development Project (ADP) supported by
IDA has been assisting the government in these efforts. The project area is
concentrated in the Chengdu plain of the Sichuan basin, which is one of the
three major geographical regions in the province, and occupies 29t of the
total area of the province. The other two regions are the West Plateau and
the Southwest Basin. The West Plateau occupies 45t of the province's total
area and is important for cattle and fruit production. The southwest region
occupying 299 of the province is composed of a river basin area suitable for
grain, sugarcane and oil seed crops and a mountainous area, which supports
corn, potato and cattle production. According to the provincial development
plan, the Southwest Region is slated for accelerated development due to its
abundant resources, large income disparities and minority area status. The
proposed project is located in this river basin.
The Project
3.      Location.   The project is located in the Anning River Valley in southwest
Sichuan Province, the second largest plain in the province (after Chengdu
Plain) and covers an area of 34,700 km2. It has 220,000 ha of cultivated land
and a population of 3.4 million, of whom 2.6 million are dependent on
agriculture. The project would cover 15 counties within Liangshan Prefecture
and Panzhihua Municipality. The area has a favorable climate for crop
production: average daily temperatures range from 17 to 200C, sunshine from
2,000-2,700 hours per annum, there are 200-300 days free of frost, and an
average of 1,000 mm of rainfall per annum. Rainfall is concentrated in the
May-to-October period, leaving the other six months relatively dry. Shortage
of water in the dry season is the main cause of low crop yield and low
cropping intensity. Investments have been made in the construction of small
diversion weirs to secure supplemental water from rivers and lakes; however,
efficient distribution systems to bring water to the fields are limited. The
Daqiao dam, which is being constructed on the upper part of the Anning River,
is scheduled to be completed at the end of 1998. It will be a major source of
water in the project area for irrigation, domestic and industrial uses.
4.      The population in the project area is poorer than the provincial average.
Six out of 15 counties in the project area are listed as state- or province-
designated poor counties. These six counties are mostly in remote mountainous
areas, where there is a lack of irrigation facilities, inadequate
infrastructure, and limited access to technical and market information. In
addition, some of the counties at higher elevations are inhabited by the Yi
people which represent 35t and 20t of the project's beneficiaries in Liangshan
and Panzhihua, respectively.
5.      Objectives.   The project would support the Sichuan Government's policy to
develop the Anning River Valley. It aims to increase the production,
productivity, marketability and value-added of agriculture, horticulture,
forestry and animal husbandry in the area, with the particular objective of
reducing the poverty of farmers in remote areas. These objectives would be
-2 -



achieved through: (a) supplying additional and more reliable water supply for
irrigation and also industrial and urban use; (b) developing land and
technology for grain and vegetable production; (c) developing marginal land
for fruit production; (d) improving sericulture technology; (e) improving
farmer income by introducing new varieties and technologies for livestock
production; and (f) adding value to crop and animal products through
processing. The project would foster the effective use of existing natural
resources, promote the development of mountainous areas, encourage the
participation of women in production processes, improve the environment, and
reduce soil erosion.
6.      Rationale for Bank Involvement.   The proposed project is consistent with
the Bank's overall assistance strategy for China, which includes the
intensification of agricultural development, while at the same time addressing
regional disparities and environmental sustainability. It specifically
addresses two of the four principal focus areas for Bank assistance: poverty
alleviation and environmental protection. The project also responds
positively to the assistance strategy identified in the 1997 CAS; to
accelerate commercialization of agriculture, develop new income generating
activities and promote better utilization of marginal agricultural lands
through the introduction of improved, sustainable production practices. The
Bank's involvement would promote the efficient use of limited resources,
introduce appropriate new production and processing technologies and promote
better planning and management to enable producers to respond to market
demand. Bank participation would also be instrumental in introducing
environmental standards in the design of agro-processing plants, developing
effluent monitoring systems and promoting environmental protection practices.
7.      Description.   The project would have seven components:   (a) water
resource development, (b) crop development, (c) orchard development
industrial, (d) sericulture development, (e) livestock development, (g) agro-
processing, and (f) institutional strengthening.
(a) Water Resource Development: (estimated cost: US$128.5 million).
The water resource development component would have three subcomponents. The
Manshuiwan subcomponent would comprise the construction of a weir across the
Anning River and trunk, main and branch canals. The construction of the lower
level canals and the field ditches would be carried out with the participation
of the farming communities. An 18 MW hydroelectric power station would also
be constructed. The Huang Qiao subcomponent would construct a dam and main
and branch canals, to provide water for irrigated agriculture for Miyi Town.
It would supply water to two small hydroelectric power stations with a total
installed capacity of 640 kW. The lower level canals and field ditches would
be constructed with the participation of the farming communities. The Shengli
subcomponent would include the construction of the branch and lower level
canals, which would distribute water from an existing reservoir for irrigation
of high value tree crops.
(b)  Crop Development:   (estimated cost: US$35.5 million). This
component aims to increase grain and vegetable production in the project area
by developing wasteland and low-yielding and marginal land for crop production
(rice, wheat and corn), supplying new and improved seeds and other
agricultural inputs, and providing improved support services. The development
of irrigation and drainage system under the project would enhance additional
cash crop production such as vegetables after grain.
- 3 -



(c)  Orchard Development:   (estimated cost: US$36.7 million). The
project aims to increase the quality and the number of varieties of high
quality fruit in the project area. It would develop marginal land and improve
existing orchards for high quality fruit production. It would invest in
seedling nurseries, develop 2,080 ha of new mango, longan, navel orange and
pear orchards, rehabilitate 300 ha of existing pomegranate, pear and navel
orange orchards, construct post-harvest facilities, and support research and
extension.
(d) Sericulture Development Component: (estimated cost: US$44.9
million). This component aims to increase and improve the quality and
productivity of silk production by introducing new sericulture production and
processing technologies to mulberry and cocoon-production households. It
would invest in silkmoth egg grainages, young silk worm rearing centres, silk
cocoon drying centres and silk reeling mills.
(e)  Livestock Development:   (estimated cost: US$15.6 million). This
component aims to increase the household income of project farmers through
livestock. It would support the expansion and productivity improvement of
sheep, goats, cattle and ducks. This component would introduce sheep as an
alternative to goat production in the fragile mountainous areas with the
objective of reducing soil erosion. It would introduce rabbits as an income
generating activity for women. The project would introduce new improved
breeds of all livestock varieties and would promote improved pasture
management and forage utilization. This component would also support
production technology for ammonification and ensilaging of straws and forages
for winter feeding. It would strengthen the support and veterinary services
of the Animal Husbandry Bureau.
(f)  Agro-Processing:   (estimated cost: US$15.8 million). This component
aims to provide essential linkages between the production, processing and
marketing of livestock, farm produce and cash crops produced under the
project. Investment in each subcomponent would be based on specific
commercial criteria. The proposed enterprises comprise rice processing mills,
seed processing centers, a duck slaughterhouse with feed mill and meat
processing facilities. The project would finance orchard houses, fruit packing
stations and coldstore facilities.
(g)  Institutional Development.   (estimated cost US$11.0 million). The
project would support the establishment of an Anning River Basin Water
Resource Management Committee, invest in overall project management and
strengthen institutional arrangements for agricultural and livestock research
and extension services and environmental protection.
8.      Organization and Management.   The project would be managed by the
Government of Sichuan Province through Project Leading Groups (PLGs) and
Project Management Offices (PMOs) at provincial, prefectural and county
levels. The PLGs, which will include representatives of technical bureaus and
the All China Women's Federation (ACWF), will provide guidance to the PMOs on
project coordination and the resolution of project implementation issues.
Representatives from ACWFs at each level would assist the county PMOs in
selecting the project beneficiaries and monitoring the participation of poor
farmers and women. The Science and Technical Committee (STC) set up under the
project would give overall guidance on the technical aspects of the
agricultural and livestock production components. This would ensure that
- 4 -



appropriate technologies are used in both development and production and that
the quality of crop and livestock production is maintained. The Provincial
Finance Bureau would manage the financial aspects of the project, including
disbursement. County PMOs would work with the county technical bureaus and
farmers in implementing project activities. Line agencies (e.g., agriculture,
livestock and water conservancy bureaus) would be responsible for technical
implementation aspects of the components within their mandate. The Manshuiwan
sub-project would be implemented by the Daqiao Hydro-Electric Development
Corporation (DHDC) which is owned by the Provincial Water Resources Bureau.
DHDC will also be responsible for O&M of irrigation and other infrastructure
facilities following project implementation.   The Shengli and Huang Qiao
subcomponents will be implemented by units of the Water Conservancy Bureaus in
Shengli District and Miyi County of Panzhihua Prefecture. Agriculture and
livestock production would be managed by farm households. Agro-processing
plants would be managed on a commercial basis with managers responsible for
profit and loss. Most of the above project management structure is already in
place.
9.      Environmental Aspects.    The proposed project is rated category B.
Please see Attachment 1 for more details.
10.     Resettlement.   Moderate resettlement will be required under the
Manshuiwan and Huang Qiao subcomponents. The number of people to be resettled
under the Manshuiwan weir is 545 (or 130 families) and for the Huang Qiao
storage facilities is 596 people (145 families). Substantial preparatory work
has already been done by the provincial and local governments for the
anticipated resettlement. Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) conforming to the
Bank's Operational Directive for Involuntary Resettlement (O.D 4.30) are being
prepared.
11.     Project Benefits.   The irrigation facilities to be developed under the
project would provide irrigation to about 20,000 ha, supply 380,000 m3/day of
raw water for domestic and industrial use and generate 117,000 MWh of
electricity per annum. With reliable water supplies available 3,200 ha of
marginal land would be developed for agricultural production, and the
productivity of 16,000 ha of existing fields would be increased.
12.     At full development, the project would generate incremental annual
production of 92,160 tons of grain, 52,513 tons of fruit, 71,250 tons of
vegetables, and 21,600 tons of tons of meat (beef, mutton, goat and duck), and
13,960 tons of fresh cocoon. Additional income would come from value-added
from rice milling, fruit grading and silk reeling. The provincial capacity of
silk reeling would be increased by 150%.   The project would directly increase
the incomes and employment of about 500,000 families and indirectly benefit
over 1.5 million households. Newly reclaimed land would be allocated to poor
farmers. Eighty percent of livestock, vegetable and silk-cocoon production
would be carried out by women. Other benefits would be: (i) the positive
impact of the project activities on the environment in the project area, (ii)
improved planning and management of Anning River Basin Water Resources, (iii)
demonstrated effective commercial agriculture where production depends on
market demand, and (iv) improved research and extension.
13.     An Anning River Basin Water Resources Management Committee to be
established under the project would address policy and legal issues related to
water quantity and quality. It would provide guidelines for overall water
- 5 -



resources management to ensure the efficient allocation and use of water
resources, to develop the ability to prepare for emergencies (flood, droughts,
etc.) and to provide a base for research. The Scientific and Technical
Committee would ensure that appropriate technologies are used in the project
area. It would also control the quality of crop and livestock production.
Representatives from the ACWF and the minority groups would monitor the
participation of minority, poor farmers and women in the project.
Contact Point:                    Rapeepun Jaisaard, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 4057
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 20, 1998
- 6-



Annex
1.      The Project contains many features that are expected to exert positive
environmental impacts. Tree planting would help to reduce soil erosion and
maintain watershed. Terracing and contouring of land for orchard development
would also reduce soil erosion and provide a demonstration future models of
development of land with steep slopes. Pasture development and management
would help to reverse the prevailing grassland deterioration. The agro-
processing plants proposed under the project are of the types not expected to
have major potential environmental damage. All plans for processing plants
are required to include an environmental assessment report to identify
potential pollutants and to propose mitigating measures. Wastewater treatment
would be incorporated in the design of all the project's agro-processing
plants and monitoring plans would be developed for the project. The
Environmental Assessment will be prepared by the time of appraisal and will be
available at the Public Information Center.
2.      Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) conforming to the Bank's Operational
Directive for Involuntary Resettlement (O.D 4.30) have been prepared for 564
people ousted by the construction of the Manshuiwan weir and 632 people by the
construction of the Huang Qiao dam. The RAPs have been reviewed during pre-
appraisal in October 1997 and found to be satisfactory.
-7 -



