                                                     Document of
                                                  The World Bank

                                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                     Report No: ICR0000426




                    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                             (IBRD-44360; IDA-31650)

                                                          ON

                                                       A LOAN

                                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$90 MILLION

                                                         AND

                                                      A CREDIT

                                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 21.4 MILLION
                                       (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                           TO

                                     THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                          FOR

             THE ANNING VALLEY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                                    June 28, 2007




Rural Development, Natural Resources & Environment Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region

         This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
          their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective March 5, 2007)
                Currency Unit = RMB Yuan
              RMB Yuan 1.00 = US$ 0.129
                     US$ 1.00 = RMB Yuan 7.743
                        Fiscal Year
                  January 1 ­ December 31




          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADP         Agricultural Development Project
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAO/CP      Food and Agriculture Organization/ Cooperative Programme
FMS         Financial Management Systems
FRR         Financial Rate of Return SA Special Account
ICRR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
IPM         Integrated Pest Management
KPI         Key Performance Indicators
kW          Kilowatt
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS         Management Information System
MTR         Mid-term Review
NPRO        National Poverty Reduction Office
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PDO         Project Development Objective
PIP         Project Implementation Plan
PMO         Project Management Office
PPMO        Provincial Project Management Office
SOCAD       State Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development
SPRO        State Poverty Reduction Office
WUA         Water User Association
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
QEA         Quality at Entry Assessment
QSA         Quality of Supervision Assessment




 Vice President           James W. Adams, EAPVP

 Country Director         David R. Dollar, EACCF

 Sector Manager           Rahul Raturi, EASRE

 Task Team Leader         Nathan M. Belete, EASRE

                                  The People's Republic of China

              The Anning Valley Agricultural Development Project




                   Implementation Completion and Results Report




                                                        Contents

                                                                                                                           Page number



Data Sheet
B. Key Dates............................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................................... i
D. Sector and Theme Codes....................................................................................................... ii
E. Bank Staff.............................................................................................................................. ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................................ iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs............................................................................... iv
H. Restructuring........................................................................................................................ iv
I. Disbursement Profile ............................................................................................................. v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design......................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes......................................................... 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome................................................................... 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance................................................................ 13
6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................. 15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners..................... 16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..................................................................................... 17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component............................................................................................. 18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)............. 22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes........................ 26
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ....................................... 28
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents.................................................................................. 30

Maps IBRD: 29689, 29690, 29691

                                      Data Sheet


                                 A. Basic Information

                                                           Anning Valley Agricultural
Country             China             Project Name
                                                           Development Project
Project ID          P049665           L/C/TF Numbers       IBRD-44360, IDA-31650
ICR Date            June 28, 2007     ICR Type             Core ICR
Lending Instrument SIL                Borrower             People's Republic of China
Original Total
                    US$120.0 million Disbursed Amount US$118.99 million
Commitment

Environmental Category                      B

Implementing Agency                         Sichuan Provincial Project Management Office

Co-financiers and Other External Partners   None


                                     B. Key Dates


    Process            Date             Process         Original Date    Revised/Actual
                                                                             Date(s)
Concept Review      08/13/1997     Effectiveness          07/08/1999       07/08/1999
Appraisal           06/30/1998     Restructuring               -                 -
Approval            01/21/1999     Mid-term Review                         03/20/2002
                                   Closing                12/31/2004       12/31/2006


                                 C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR


Outcomes                                    Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                 Negligible to Low
Bank Performance                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                        Satisfactory

           C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)

        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry          Satisfactory      Government                  Satisfactory
Quality of                                  Implementing
Supervision               Satisfactory      Agency/Agencies             Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
Performance               Satisfactory      Performance                 Satisfactory




                                           i

             C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

Implementation Performance      Indicators    QAG Assessments (if any)       Rating
Potential Problem Project at
                                    No        Quality at Entry (QEA)       Satisfactory
any time (Yes/No)
Problem Project at any time                   Quality of Supervision
                                    No                                        N/A
(Yes/No)                                      (QSA)
DO rating before Closing        Satisfactory


                                D. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                           Original          Actual
Sector Code (as percentage of total Bank financing)
Agricultural marketing and trade                               4                 5
Animal production                                            18                15
Central government administration                              7                 6
Crops                                                        32                35
Irrigation and drainage                                      39                39




Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Land administration and management                          Primary          Primary
Other rural development                                     Primary          Primary


                                       E. Bank Staff

        Positions                     At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President            James W. Adams                  Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director          David R. Dollar                 Yukon Huang
Sector Manager            Rahul Raturi                    Geoffrey B. Fox
Project Team Leader       Nathan M. Belete                Rapeepun Jaisaard
ICR Team Leader           Xueming Liu                                   -
ICR Primary Author        Xueming Liu                                   -




                                            ii

                                         F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives

The project was designed to support the Sichuan government's policy of developing the Anning
Valley which primarily covers 15 counties in Liangshan Prefecture and Panzhihua Municipality.
The area was defined as having a high potential for agricultural development because there were
large areas of marginal land whose productivity could be markedly increased and it has generally
good climatic conditions. The Project Development Objectives were: (a) to increase the
production, productivity, marketability and value-added of agriculture, horticulture and animal
husbandry in the area; and (b) to reduce the poverty of farmers in remote areas of the Valley.

The objectives were to be achieved through: (a) providing additional and more reliable water
supplies for irrigation (and industrial/urban use); (b) developing land and technology for grain
and vegetable production; (c) developing marginal hilly land for fruit orchards; (d) improving
sericulture technology; (e) improving farmers' incomes by introducing new varieties and
technologies for livestock production; and (f) adding value to crop and livestock production
through processing.

Revised Project Development Objectives

The Project Development Objectives were not altered during the life of the project.

Project Development Objective Indicators                 1




                                         Original Target Values              Formally              Actual Value

  Indicator Baseline Value                     (from approval                Revised                Achieved at

                                                 documents)                   Target        Completion or Target
                                                                              Values                    Years
 Indicator 1      Per capita income of the rural population in the project area.

 Value                                    RMB 1825 for Liangshan                            RMB 2884 for Liangshan
                     RMB 880
                                          RMB 1892 for Panzhihua                            RMB 3960 for Panzhihua
 Date               12/10/1998                    12/31/2004                                         12/31/2006
 Comments         Data on incomes was obtained from ex post survey by PMOs but are not adjusted for
                  inflation (which is estimated to be about 8 percent cumulative for the past decade).
Indicator 2       Poverty incidence in project areas.
 Value
                     33 percent                                                                       11 percent

 Date               12/10/1998                                                                       12/31/2006

 Comments         This can largely be attributed to the project as it was the single largest integrated
                  agricultural intervention in the past ten years in the region.




1The ICR guidelines require reporting on outcome indicators based on the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) Results
Framework. At appraisal, the project's PAD used a logical framework and the indicators were predominantly output
indicators. As the best alternative for reporting on project outcomes, the indicators used here: (a) are taken from
Section C.3 of the PAD; and (b) for poverty incidence, have been obtained from the PPMO. The PAD-derived Key
Performance Indicators, with their emphasis on outputs, are analyzed in paragraphs 1.2.3 and 3.2.3.




                                                            iii

Intermediate Outcome Indicators               2



                                        Original Target                                   Actual Value Achieved
   Indicator            Baseline                                  Formally Revised
                         Value     Values (from approval                                     at Completion or
                                            documents)              Target Values              Target Years
Indicator 1           Irrigated area under the three schemes
Value                        -                20,032 ha                      -                     20,193 ha

Date                                         12/31/2004                      -                   12/31/2006
Comments
Indicator 2           Increased crop yields for paddy and wheat in project areas
Value                       -        8.5 tons per ha for paddy                              9 tons per ha for paddy
                                     4 tons per ha for wheat                 -              6 tons per ha for wheat
Date                        -                12/31/2004                      -                   12/31/2006
Comments




                                G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                                     Actual
 No.       Date ISR
           Archived                        DO                              IP                   Disbursements
                                                                                                (US$ million)
   1      03/16/1999                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                            0.00
   2      10/26/1999                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                            9.85
   3      05/10/2000                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          21.72
   4      10/11/2000                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          29.72
   5      03/29/2001                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          40.46
   6      10/22/2001                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          53.27
   7      04/23/2002                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          60.64
   8      10/22/2002                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          69.00
   9      05/02/2003                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          84.75
  10      10/31/2003                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          95.73
  11      05/13/2004                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                          99.62
  12      11/12/2004                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                         103.05
  13      05/16/2005                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                         110.01
  14      11/17/2005                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                         112.52
  15      01/18/2007                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                         118.87



                                                  H. Restructuring

The project was not restructured.


2 At appraisal, in the log-frame analysis, no intermediate outcome indicators were required. Those given here are taken
from the Key Performance Indicators as being the best proxies for project outcomes.




                                                            iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background

1.1.1   In framing the overall project objective and activities, due consideration was given at
appraisal to a number of important country and sector issues. The following is a brief highlight of
the key issues:

(a) There was a continuous significant decline in the area of productive land available for
agriculture resulting from population increase and urbanization, and the government had adopted
a strategic focus on developing marginal agricultural lands to counter this.

(b) There was a growing awareness of the importance of developing water resources for urban
and agriculture use, and the concomitant need in agriculture to enhance productivity, and increase
both the production of high-value crops and farm incomes.

(c) There was a pressing need to increase agricultural productivity to meet the increasing demand
for food and feedstuff resulting from growing incomes and population.

(d) It was felt necessary to address the wide regional disparity in incomes and to make
operational the government's focus on targeting poor populations in remote areas.

(e) The government had decided to address the issue of inadequate funding for technology
development and dissemination.

(f) The rapid rate of economic growth in China was raising demand for more and better-quality
food, and this clearly emphasized the need to develop agricultural processing and value chains.

(g) The pressure of market forces and the opening-up of the economy placed emphasis on the
importance of improving cost recovery in the public sector-financed supply of agricultural
services (including irrigation, and technology development and dissemination).

Rationale for Bank Assistance

1.1.2   To address these issues and to meet the priorities of the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) and prevailing government policy, the main rationale for the Bank's involvement
was the extensive cross-sectoral experience it could bring to China in the development of its
agriculture and water resources. In particular, the rationale envisaged providing assistance in the
following strategic areas:

(a) The establishment of integrated water resources management systems.

(b) The modernization of infrastructure.

(c) The introduction of new production and processing technologies.

(d) The introduction of measures necessary to protect and improve the environment.




                                               1

1.1.3    Bank value-added was also envisaged in assisting the Borrower in instituting key sector
reforms in the following areas: water use management and efficiency; promoting more market-
responsive and commercial agriculture; and establishing environmental standards and
environmental protection practices in the design of agricultural processing plants.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 The project was designed to support the Sichuan government's policy of developing the
Anning Valley which primarily covers 15 counties within Liangshan Prefecture and Panzhihua
Municipality. The area has a high potential for agricultural development because there are large
areas of marginal land whose productivity could be markedly increased and generally good
climatic conditions. The project development objectives (PDOs) were: (a) to increase the
production, productivity, marketability and value-added of agriculture, horticulture and animal
husbandry in the area; and (b) to reduce the poverty of farmers in remote areas of the Valley.

1.2.2 The objectives were to be achieved through: (a) supplying additional and more reliable
water for irrigation (and also for industrial and urban use); (b) developing land and technology for
grain and vegetable production; (c) developing marginal hilly land for fruit orchards; (d)
improving sericulture technology; (e) improving farmer income by introducing new varieties and
technologies for livestock production; and (f) adding value to crop and livestock production
through processing.

1.2.3    The project was intended to foster the effective and efficient use of existing natural
resources, to promote the development of mountainous areas, to encourage the participation of
women in production, to improve the environment and to reduce soil erosion.

1.2.4    The Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the sector-related CAS goal and the PDOs as
defined at appraisal were:

   CAS         PDOs                              Key Performance Indicators
    goal
     (a)          -     the area of marginal land developed and supplied with irrigation water
     (b)          -     an increase in the cropping-intensity index
     (c)          -     an increase in the area of land terracing, fruit tree planting and watershed
                        management
     (d)          -     a reduction of rural unemployment
     (e)          -     an increase in average household income
      -          (a)    the increased production and yields of crops and livestock
      -          (b)    an increase in the varieties and forms of crops and livestock produced and
                        processed according to market demand
      -          (c)    the formation of the river basin committee and the harmonious, effective and
                        sustainable management of water resources
      -          (d)    a reduction in the number of poor minority households
      -          (d)    an increase in the number of women participating in the project
Source: PAD Annex 1

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

1.3.1    There were no revisions made to the PDOs or the KPIs of the project.




                                                  2

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1    The primary (target) beneficiaries of the project were mainly poor, ethnic minority
farmers from Liangshan Prefecture and Panzhihua Municipality of Sichuan Province. The project
was expected to benefit directly (through increased employment and incomes) about 264,700
families and to benefit indirectly more than 500,000 additional households.

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1    The project had seven components. The estimated costs at appraisal included physical
and price contingency provisions.

1.5.2    The Component (a) Water Resource Development (appraisal cost estimate US$105.5
million, 44 percent of the total) had three sub-components. The Manshuiwan sub-component was
designed to provide water from the Anning River for irrigation (14,400 ha), domestic and
industrial use, and to feed a hydro-electric power station of 18MW capacity also to be built under
the project. The Huangqiao sub-component was designed to construct a dam and canals for
irrigation (2,680 ha) and to feed two small hydro-electric power stations of 640 kW capacity. The
Shengli sub-component would complete the irrigation system, supplying water from an existing
reservoir to an area of 2,952 ha.

1.5.3    The Component (b) Crop Development (appraisal cost estimate US$35.6 million,
15 percent of the total) was designed to increase food production, focusing on the main staple
food grains (rice, wheat and maize), potatoes and vegetables. The main activities under the
component were the reclamation of land (4,700 ha), the improvement of land (12,800 ha), the
multiplication of improved seed varieties, and improvements to the extension service, farmer and
staff training, and research.

1.5.4    The Component (c) Orchard Development (appraisal cost estimate US$ 36.3 million,
15 percent of the total) was designed to increase the quality and number of varieties of high-
quality fruit trees to increase farmer incomes and reduce soil erosion on sloping land.
Investments were to be made in nurseries, the establishment of new orchards and the
rehabilitation of existing ones, post-harvesting facilities, and training, research and extension.

1.5.5    The Component (d) Sericulture Development (appraisal cost estimate US$26.6 million,
11 percent of the total) aimed to increase productivity and quality in silk production by
introducing new production and processing technologies to mulberry and cocoon-producing
households and by investing in silk-moth egg production, silkworm rearing centers, cocoon
drying centers and silk reeling mills.

1.5.6    The Component (e) Livestock Development (appraisal cost estimate US$13.3 million,
6 percent of the total) was designed to increase the incomes of poor and minority households by
increasing production and productivity in the raising of sheep, goats and ducks. The principal
activities to be supported were breed improvement, pasture and feedstuff development, and the
strengthening of animal husbandry and veterinary services.

1.5.7    The Component (f) Agro-Processing (appraisal cost estimate US$12.7 million,
5 percent of the total) was designed to provide linkages between production, processing and
marketing of farm produce. Enterprises to be supported included rice processing, seed processing,
fruit stores and a wholesale market.



                                                3

1.5.8    The Component (g) Institutional Strengthening (appraisal cost estimate US$8.9
million, 4 percent of the total) was designed to support the Anning River Basin Water Resource
Management Committee, to invest in project management and to strengthen the institutional
arrangements for research, extension and environmental protection.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1    No revision was made of the project components during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1    There were no significant changes made in the project's design, scope, financial structure
or implementation arrangements during implementation.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1 Background Analysis There was sufficient effort on the part of the preparation team to
analyze key issues in finalizing project objectives and design. This included:

(a) an adequate assessment of key (and dynamic) issues emerging in the Chinese economy,
particularly in agriculture;

(b) the importance in both Bank and government strategies of ensuring inclusive growth and the
targeting of vulnerable groups and areas; and

(c) thoughtfully researching and incorporating pertinent lessons from past area and water resource
development projects in China.

2.1.2 Assessment of the Project Design. Based on lessons from prior operations, particularly
in relation to ensuring long-term sustainability, the project's design was innovative in introducing
the concept of integrated river valley development and piloting the collection of water charges for
irrigation in Sichuan Province. This instilled the concept of irrigation water as a commercial
resource and raised the awareness of water-use efficiency and conservation amongst users.

2.1.3 The PAD made a comprehensive assessment of ethnic and poverty-related issues in the
project areas. In addition, the role of women and livelihood activities were addressed and
integrated into the project's design. Extensive consultations with key stakeholders (e.g.,
government agencies at different levels, representatives of the Nationalities Affairs Commission,
the Poverty Alleviation Office, and the All China Women's Federation) were also undertaken.
These key stakeholders were also involved in project monitoring and evaluation.

2.1.4    While the project was complex in terms of the number of components and the number of
organizations involved, it appeared to have addressed all the necessary prerequisites for effective
implementation. However, project identification, preparation and appraisal were lengthy,
complicated and costly.

2.1.5 It is also worth noting that experience of several agricultural development projects (ADPs)
under implementation at the time of the appraisal had shown that these types of project could


                                                4

function well in China. However, a programmatic approach that specified eligibility criteria for
investments rather than ex ante prescription might have been more appropriate, especially for the
commercial operations (given the fast-changing economic environment3). In addition, the
following aspects of the project's design could have been better prepared:

(a) Given that the Manshuiwan head-works and major canal systems are located in a geologically
and topographically difficult area, the construction of most of the works was complex and
technically challenging. The initial survey and investigation work undertaken for the preparation
of preliminary designs of the Manshuiwan works proved to be inadequate. However, it is
difficult to determine whether this could have been known at appraisal.

(b) The Logical Framework Analysis did not define outcome and output indicators hierarchically.
In addition, all indicators were not included in the PAD Log-frame but in the Project
Implementation Plan.

(c) At appraisal, the overall methodology used for the financial and economic analysis was
appropriate and paid attention to farm budget analysis. However, the analysis for water resource
and crop development did not adequately take into account the benefits expected from changes in
cropping patterns and cropping intensity under the "with-project" situation (Section 3.3). This
resulted in an under-estimation of the overall financial and economic returns.

2.1.6 Government Commitment. The appraisal team adequately gauged the commitment of
government to the project, which it demonstrated by taking various initiatives prior to actual
project preparation. These included:

(a) the use of substantial government funds in completing up-stream dam and water storage
facilities;

(b) the completion of a comprehensive Anning River Basin water resources development plan;

(c) the completion of various feasibility studies for priority water resource development sub-
projects;

(d) obtaining approval for the project by the State Council;

(e) the establishment of project offices at all levels to ensure the availability of funds for
preparation activities; and

(f) securing prior commitment from the government budget for counterpart funding for project
implementation.

2.1.7    In addition, the preparation team actively engaged the participation of various
stakeholders from technical and scientific agencies and from provincial, county and prefectures,
in finalizing the scope and design of the project.

2.1.8 Risk Assessment. A comprehensive assessment of project risks and mitigation factors
was outlined at appraisal. No risks were rated as being `high'. However, the risks related to the



3 QAG Assessment of Quality at Entry




                                                 5

availability of counterpart funding for the Daqiao Dam and the need for coordination of local
government agencies were rated as being `potentially substantial'. With the benefit of hindsight,
however, it would have been appropriate for the appraisal team to signal the technical risks that
were known to be associated with the Manshuiwan irrigation scheme. The remaining 12 factors
in risk analysis were rated as being `medium' and effective mitigation measures were proposed.

2.1.9    In view of the assessment above, on balance, the project's quality at entry is rated as
satisfactory despite some of the minor shortcomings highlighted above. The Quality Assurance
Group (QAG) rating of quality at entry was satisfactory (Annex 9).

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1    With the exception of the Manshuiwan sub-component, project activities were efficiently
and effectively implemented, and this can be attributed to the strong commitment by the
Borrower, the sustained level of interest shown by the beneficiaries in the project, and effective
Bank supervision. Several major project activities were completed significantly ahead of
schedule (e.g., the Huangqiao irrigation scheme was completed almost one year ahead of
schedule).

2.2.2 At the time of the Mid-term Review (MTR), adjustments were made to some components,
particularly those related to farm commercialization. Among the changes, new commercial
farming operations were added (including household dairy production, rose cultivation,
plantations of Chinese yew ( Media Taxus) cultivation of Japanese mustard) while some agro-
processing plants proposed in the original design were dropped because of changing market
demand. Furthermore, the concept of Water Users' Associations (WUAs) was introduced to
enhance the participation of irrigation users and improve water-use efficiency. Accordingly,
reallocations of funds between disbursement categories and components were made.

2.2.3    The problems of the Manshuiwan scheme became apparent early during project
implementation and corrective measures were introduced, including further exploratory
investigation and redesign. Despite these (early) remedial measures, the completion of the
scheme still required additional cost and time.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 Design Although it is recognized that the Logical Framework Analysis (PAD Annex 1) at
the time of appraisal is different from the Results Framework currently used in Bank operations,
the outcome indicators listed in the PAD log-frame were, in fact, output indicators and could not
be used effectively to measure project outcomes. For output monitoring, indicators and targets
were well specified (though not in the PAD but in the PIP) and were extensively used in project
management. M & E design also included: (a) six-monthly periodic monitoring and reporting of
physical and financial progress; (b) the monitoring of KPIs by PMOs at county and prefecture
levels, to be consolidated by the PPMO; and (c) installing a Management Information System
(MIS) in all PMOs.

2.3.2 Implementation The PMOs at all levels monitored project progress with participation
from a task force including ethnic minorities and women. Project hand-books on project fund
management, project implementation management and the establishment of WUAs were prepared
by the PPMO and distributed to lower-level PMOs. Project staff members involved in M&E
were given training on M&E procedures and methodologies.



                                               6

2.3.3 Utilization The M&E system as designed was established and extensively used by
project management and supervision missions to gauge progress and to identify problems and
follow-up actions. The methodology and procedures used for M&E in the project were, in fact,
widely adopted by other agriculture development programs in Sichuan Province, especially in the
State Office for Comprehensive Agricultural Development (SOCAD) projects.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1   The project triggered three Bank safeguard policies: Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12),
the Safety of Dams (OP4.37) and Social Assessments and Minority Development Plan (OD 4.20).
During project preparation and implementation, these policies were satisfactorily observed.
Furthermore, the fiduciary aspects of project implementation were managed in accordance with
the Bank's Financial Management (OP10.02), Procurement (OP11.00) and Disbursement
(OP12.00) policies.

2.4.2   Though the project did not trigger Bank safeguards on Pest Management (OP 4.09), both
Panzhihua and Liangshan on their own initiative widely adopted Integrated Pest Management
(IPM) techniques in crop production in order to qualify for the "green food" label (the equivalent
of an organic food rating in China).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 Transition arrangements All project activities (except the Manshuiwan sub-component)
were assimilated into regular operations during the last two years of the project's life. Being
financially profitable and attractive, there has been little difficulty for farmers and agro-
processors to adopt and sustain operations introduced by the project through the use of their own
resources. The schemes at Shengli and Huangqiao have been running successfully with well-
designed and well-executed Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Plans. For Manshuiwan,
staffing and institutional arrangements for O&M have been formulated and approved by the
government. On-farm works, with a total length of 770 km of ditches, have been newly
constructed and/or rehabilitated, mainly with SOCAD funding. In addition, two pilot WUAs
have been established with assistance from the local Water Conservancy Bureau. A plan to
establish 51 WUAs over the next two years in the Manshuiwan command area is being
implemented.

2.5.2 Next Phase Successful lessons learnt under the project are being continually scaled-up
under both national and local government agricultural development programs. These include the
expansion of the WUA pilots to the entire province of Sichuan and the expansion of improved
crop, livestock and agro-processing technologies to non-project areas.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1   The macro-economic, sector issues and related policy and strategic priorities that formed
the basis of the original PDOs and the project design remain as highly relevant at completion as
they did at the time of appraisal. The policy thrusts on continuing expansion of production into
marginal agricultural lands, enhancing the use and efficiency of water and agricultural resources,
further developing commercial, market-driven value chains, and ensuring more socially-inclusive
growth remain key pillars of government development policy (as outlined in the 11th Five-Year


                                                 7

National Development Plan). The emphasis on agricultural commercialization, market
development and inclusive growth are also core aspects of the Bank's current CAS. In addition
to current relevance, during project implementation the active engagement between the Bank and
Borrower ensured that emerging trends, in a rapidly changing economy, allowed for flexibility
and changes to be made. For example, the changes made at the time of the MTR enhanced
project funding for emerging agricultural product markets and discontinued activities that had
become less relevant to borrowers.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1   The core PDO of reducing poverty, particularly amongst disadvantaged groups, through
the provision of assured irrigation and various income-enhancing activities has been effectively
and efficiently met. Ex post surveys by the project management team, together with
complementary data and evidence, suggest that there has been a marked impact on poverty
reduction as a result of the project, especially as it was the single largest development activity in
the two prefectures. Data from the PPMO indicate that the average net per capita income of
farmers in project areas increased by 1,475 Yuan per year while the poverty incidence, as defined
by the National Poverty Reduction Office (NPRO), decreased from 33 percent at appraisal to 13
percent at project completion. To complement these data, there have also been very significant
(above target) increases in other output indicators (Annex 2) through the introduction of new
productivity-enhancing technologies and improved on-farm management practices. In meeting
its PDOs, the project also effectively made operational the government's integrated river valley
development plan, which was formulated in 1992 and introduced important institutional
innovations (Section 3.4).

3.2.2   At its close, the project had directly benefited approximately 265,000 households
(approximately 900,000 people, of whom about 250,500 (28 percent) were from Yi, Tibet and
other minority nationalities). The project directly enhanced the food security of beneficiaries as
well as their capacity in farm management and crop and livestock husbandry. In particular,
women were the main beneficiaries in sericulture, vegetable production and livestock rearing. In
addition to direct project beneficiaries, it is estimated that the demonstration and scaling-up effect
of good project practices has benefited an additional 500,000 people in non-project areas.

3.2.3   The sections below briefly assess the output and performance by component through
which the project achieved the PDOs of enhancing incomes and reducing poverty. The following
matrix summarizes the KPIs defined at appraisal and the actual achievements of the project.




                                                  8

CAS      PDOs                            Key Performance Indicators
goal
(a)        -   - the area of marginal land developed and supplied with irrigation water
 Target and    In Component (b) some 3,496 ha of new land was reclaimed (compared to the
Achievement:   target of 3,500 ha) and 8,626 ha of low-yielding land was improved (compared to
               the target of 9,500 ha). The increase in the irrigated area in the three schemes
               under Component (a) was 20,193 ha compared to the target of 20,032 ha.
(b)        -   - an increase in the cropping-intensity index
 Target and    The baseline value of the cropping-intensity index was 110 percent. In the
Achievement:   Project Implementation Plan (PIP), a target value of 163 percent was defined and
               the actual achievement was 214 percent.
(c)        -   - an increase in the area of land terracing, fruit tree planting and watershed
               management
 Target and    In Component (c) Orchard Development, some 3,014 ha of marginal land was
Achievement:   developed for orchards of pomegranate, mango and longan and for vineyards.
               The target was 2,045 ha of new and rehabilitated orchards.
(d)        -   - a reduction of rural unemployment
 Target and    No baseline is available to measure the results for the project-specific impact
Achievement:   besides that which can be correlated from the project data on increased household
               income and agricultural production. Government statistics on unemployment are
               available, but are not project specific.
(e)        -   - an increase in average household income
 Target and    The baseline value of per capita rural income was RMB 880. The target values
Achievement:   were RMB 1,825 in Liangshan and RMB 1,892 in Panzhihua. The actual
               achievements were RMB 2,884 in Liangshan and RMB 3,960 in Panzhihua.
 -        (a)  - the increased production and yields of crops and livestock
 Target and    The target under Component (e) of 15,318 head was formally revised to 19,460
Achievement:   head and the actual achievement was 20,483 head. Under Component (b), the
               targets for yields defined in the PIP were exceeded in both rice (9.0 tons per ha
               compared to 8.5) and wheat (6.0 tons per ha compared to 4.0).
 -        (b)  - an increase in the varieties and forms of crop and livestock produced and
               processed according to market demand
 Target and    Targets for yields per ha remained constant from the baseline to project
Achievement:   completion for wheat, paddy, corn, sugar cane and vegetables (5, 9,7,19.5, and 20
               tons, respectively). Because of high market demand, orchard planting went from
               990 ha to 1640 ha for mango and from 315 ha to 517 ha for Longan. Livestock
               production remained relatively constant with original targets, except in
               Panzhihua household goat production where the number of households almost
               tripled (from 1,080 to 3,917).
 -        (c)  - the formation of the river basin committee and the harmonious, effective
               and sustainable management of water resources
 Target and    The Anning Basin Water Resources Management Committee was established in
Achievement:   1999 to oversee water resource use and management.
 -        (d)  - a reduction in the number of poor minority households
               The baseline level of poverty in the project area was 33 percent. No target was
 Target and    specified for its reduction. At the end of the project, the level of poverty was
Achievement:   estimated to be 11 percent, and most of the reduction was considered to be
               attributable to the project.
 -        (d)  - an increase in the number of women participating in the project
 Target and    No specific target was set. Women accounted for 40 percent of the participants
Achievement:   in agricultural technology training and extension sessions, and carried out 80
               percent of the activities in small livestock, vegetable and silk cocoon production.




                                          9

3.2.4 Component (a) Water Resource Development (actual expenditures US$119.84 million,
134 percent of the appraisal estimate). The total command area developed under the three
schemes amounted to 20,193 ha, of which 19,126 ha were gravity irrigated and 1,067 ha were
pump-lift irrigated, which represents approximately 101 percent of the appraisal target. In
addition to irrigation, the project also provided a total of 89.1 million m3 of water annually for
domestic and industrial use. The Huangqiao scheme is rated as being a model medium-sized
scheme by the provincial authorities, and has been repeatedly cited as good practice for
undertaking similar works in other water resource development projects. Under the component,
the project also determined efficient water-use models for various crops which formed the basis
for establishing water-use charges and promoting the practice of water-use efficiency. Although
the Manshuiwan scheme was delayed in implementation because of technical difficulties and
delays in counterpart funding, by the project's close all physical works had been completed (with
some output indicators exceeding PAD targets) and an O&M plan approved. Under the
component, the project also piloted the establishment of WUAs, including devolving
responsibility for O&M at WUA levels to the beneficiaries (Section 3.4). It is estimated that,
under this component, farm household income increased on average by some 3,000 Yuan as a
result of increased cropping intensity and productivity and diversification into higher-value crops.
This was made possible by assured irrigation in the command areas under the three irrigation
schemes.

3.2.5 Component (b) Crop Development (actual expenditures US$31.99 million, 105 percent
of the appraisal estimate). In total, 8,626 ha of farmland were improved and 3,496 ha of marginal
lands developed in Liangshan and Panzhihua for grain and vegetable production. New
technologies, such as IPM, and high-yielding varieties of rice, wheat, corn and vegetables were
widely adopted under the project and in combination with the improved irrigation water supply
resulted in yields of paddy exceeding nine tons per ha and yields of wheat reaching six tons per
ha. Under the component, farm household incomes increased by between 3,000 to 4,000 Yuan as
the result of the adoption of new technologies and improved farm management practices.

3.2.6 Component (c) Orchard Development (actual expenditures US$45.54 million, 200
percent of the appraisal estimate). In total, 3,014 ha of marginal land were developed into
vineyards and orchards of pomegranate, mango and longan. The quality of fruit produced under
the project is high because of the specific agro-ecological conditions in the Anning River Valley,
and in response there has been a steady increase in demand. The newly-developed areas under
this component were mostly allocated to poor farm households, which had a pronounced poverty
reduction impact. For both new and rehabilitated orchards, the financial rates of returns and
income increase were highly attractive (Annex 3).

3.2.7 Component (d) Sericulture Development (actual expenditures US$19.04 million, 59
percent of the appraisal estimate). The project successfully introduced a number of improved
methods and technologies for silk-worm cocoon production at household level. New
technologies have been introduced (such as vertical cardboard frames), and improvements of silk
moth egg grainages, cocoon collecting and drying facilities. Under this component, the
productivity of cocoon and processed silk production increased markedly, which particularly
benefited women in employment and income generation. It also enhanced the integration of
small producers into silk processing and marketing chains.

3.2.8 Component (e) Livestock Development (actual expenditures US$19.21 million, 167
percent of the appraisal estimate). The project financed seed production bases for rice, corn,
wheat, vegetables and potatoes and provided seed of improved crop varieties to farmers for
production. Based on the PPMO M&E data, improved seeds significantly contributed to yield


                                                10

increases in project areas. Pasture development, new livestock breeds (such as Shandong sheep),
improved breeding techniques (such as artificial insemination) enhanced animal performance.

3.2.9 Component (f) Agro-Processing (actual expenditures US$17.95 million, 157 percent of
the appraisal estimate). In line with the changing market demand, one dehydrated vegetable
processing unit was added to the investment program and several ventilated fruit stores were
removed at the time of the MTR. All four agro-processing units (covering rice processing, crop
seed processing, wholesale market of farm produce and vegetable processing) are private sector
enterprises with attractive financial returns (Section 2.1.3).

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 A comprehensive economic analysis was carried out for the six principal productive
components and for the project as a whole (Annex 3). The results of the analyses show that the
project has acceptable economic rates of return (ERRs) for all sub-components and for the project
as a whole. The project has a robust ERR of 27 percent, with a net present value of Y2.3 billion
(using an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent).


               Component                                                                ERR (percent)
               Water Resource Development                                                       22
               Crop Development                                                                 37
               Orchard Development                                                              30
               Sericulture Component                                                            33
               Livestock Component;                                                             25
               Agro-Processing                                                                  28
               Project                                                                          27



3.3.2 The noticeable difference in the ERRs estimated in the ICR and PAD for the Water
Resource component can be largely explained by the under-estimate made of the benefits at
appraisal. The models developed at that time failed to take into account the benefits that would
accrue from increases in cropping intensity and from cropping pattern changes (Section 2.1).

3.3.3 A financial analysis was carried out for all productive components to assess the financial
rate of return (FRR) of investments (Annex 3). It should be noted that for the Water Resource
and Crop Development components, FRR calculations are not applicable as net financial flows
are all positive. However, farm income analysis indicates an increase in incomes between RMB
3,000 to 4,000 per family per year for project beneficiaries of these components. The estimated
FRRs for the remaining four components are summarized below:


                                       Component                                        FRR (percent)
               Orchard Development*                                                          20 to 42
               Sericulture Component                                                            33
               Livestock Component**                                                         17 to 28
               Agro-Processing                                                               19 to 25
                      * depending on type of fruit, irrigation mode and difficulty of land development.
                      ** depending on investment costs, animal performance and product prices.




                                                        11

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.1 The underlying strategic basis used at appraisal for framing the PDOs and project design
(including the rationale for Bank support) were well considered and, more importantly, continue
to remain highly relevant at the project close (Section 1.1.2). The project aptly encompassed key
aspects and the focus of national and Bank policy, whilst Borrower implementation was both
effective and efficient, which resulted in the achievement of above-target outputs. These
collectively improved living standards and the socio-economic status especially of the targeted
poorer groups.

3.4.2 Although it is appreciated that the very rapid pace of general economic growth in China
has also been an extremely important factor in reducing poverty levels in the country, the project
complemented this by focusing and including poorer groups which might otherwise have been
integrated to a lesser extent or at a slower pace.

3.4.3 Moreover, the project successfully introduced innovative institutional processes, such as
water charges for cost recovery, the piloting of WUAs to improve both irrigation delivery and the
O&M of systems, and participatory monitoring involving minority groups. These have had
substantial impact in promoting operational sustainability and involvement of minorities.

3.4.4 In addition to the achievements of PDOs and outputs, technical and economic efficiency
ratings have been high (Sections 3.2 & 3.3). With the exception of one sub-component, the
project delivered inputs on time or ahead of schedule, which led to the attainment of above-target
outputs and maintained a high level of interest in participation by beneficiaries.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1 The project was located in poorer areas of Sichuan Province as part of the objective of
targeting minorities. Of the 15 project counties, six were officially classified as poverty-stricken
by the State Poverty Reduction Office (SPRO). Only some 25 percent of the target group had
incomes close to low average income levels in the project areas. Among the project households,
roughly 30 percent were Yi and other ethnic minorities who were considered the poorest. Under
the project, newly-reclaimed land was mainly allocated to poor and minority families in
Liangshan and Panzhihua. Women accounted for 40 percent of the participants in agricultural
technology training and extension sessions. Furthermore, women carried out roughly 80 percent
of activities in small livestock, vegetable and silk cocoon production.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2 The integrated river valley development approach adopted by the project promoted and
strengthened linkages among rural sub-sectors, including water resources, crops, livestock,
sericulture, horticulture, agro-processing and research/extension. This integration has greatly
improved overall agricultural resource utilization and strengthened the receptiveness of producers
to improved technologies. In addition, the piloting of WUAs for O&M and the introduction of
water fees proved to be workable and is expected to have significant positive implications in
improving water resource management and sustaining irrigation schemes.



                                                12

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

3.5.3 None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

3.6.1    No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshops were carried out for this ICR
preparation.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

4.1.1 The project has been under regular operation (except the Manshuiwan scheme) for two
years, and the financial and social benefits generated have constituted strong incentives to the
beneficiaries in sustaining the operations. Furthermore, the project is also economically robust,
reflecting a significant contribution to society as a whole, whilst government policies and the 11th
Five-Year Plan maintain strong strategic importance on agricultural and rural development. The
much publicized "new socialist countryside construction" program stresses, among other aspects,
irrigation development and farm commercialization which were at the heart of the project. As
with any commercially-orientated operations, market risks do exist but are necessarily part of
general economic fluctuations. Moreover, operations under this project in the past two years have
already proved that farmers are well adapted and resilient to market fluctuations, by shifting
production patterns and scale of production accordingly. Orchard production normally has a high
risk of price fluctuation and a low likelihood of short-term diversification. However, the most
important fruit product developed under the project - mangoes - have excellent quality because of
local agro-ecological conditions, and retain a strong niche market.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.1 The appraisal team was thorough and thoughtful in completing the necessary background
and strategic analysis while formulating the project. As a result, the project's aims were
consistent with core policy thrusts, many of which still remain relevant today (e.g., the focus on
productivity and marginal land development, the need to improve water resource use and reduce
regional and income disparities, and enhance social inclusion in growth). In addition, project
design was far-reaching in introducing important concepts such as the need to institutionalize
processes for maintaining long-term operational sustainability and safeguarding against
environmental and social concerns. Despite these positive aspects, and with the benefit of
hindsight, it is apparent that there were some minor shortcomings that could have been better
addressed in the PAD (section 2.1.5).




                                                13

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.2 Bank supervision missions were composed of multi-disciplinary teams of specialists and
project management staff. The teams were both technically competent and responsive to
emerging issues of the project and local needs. The core team members were engaged throughout
project implementation and maintained excellent working relationships with counterparts.
Missions focused on the project's development impact and outcome, in addition to monitoring the
physical targets. Supervision missions identified key issues (e.g., counterpart funding and
implementation delays) and proposed actions. The MTR fully addressed new priorities in various
project components brought about by rapid changes in the rural economy.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.4 The overall Bank performance is rated as having been satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.1 The Sichuan Provincial Government established a Project Leading Group which provided
strong political support, leadership and effective coordination throughout project preparation and
implementation. Both the provincial and local governments made tremendous efforts to ensure
the continuity of staff at the municipal/prefecture and county PMOs, and provided sufficient
financial resources for operations. To assist the project in meeting its objectives, the local
governments also granted tax incentives to agro-processing components in their start-up years.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

    Implementing
       Agency                                             Performance

                        PPMO staff members were selected based on their competence. The effective use
                        of the M&E system contributed to successful project implementation. Efforts
                        were made in capacity building at all levels through appropriate training and study
The Provincial Project tours, including training for farmers. Project handbooks were prepared by the
Management Office       PPMO on funds management, implementation management, M&E, and the
                        establishment of WUAs. Follow-up actions proposed by supervision missions
                        were generally acted upon in a timely and efficient manner.

                        The PMOs were staffed by dedicated, competent administrators and professionals
                        throughout project preparation and implementation. PMOs moreover coordinated
Local-level Project     and engaged actively with government line agencies, including finance,
Management Offices      agriculture, animal husbandry, women's affairs, environmental protection and
                        audit, to enhance implementation and resolve problems encountered. They also
                        functioned as an effective bridge between PPMO and project beneficiaries.



                                                 14

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

5.2.2    Based on the evaluation of the performance of the government and the implementing
agencies, the overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned

6.1.1 An integrated river valley development approach proved to be practical and effective
in addressing multiple development objectives for poverty reduction. The project
demonstrated that the integrated approach to river valley development can mobilize human,
financial and technical resources across key sub-sectors and institutions to enhance development
impacts (Section 3.2).

6.1.2 Strong Borrower ownership and effective project management are essential for
successful implementation. The institutional setup for project management at various levels,
with broad involvement of line agencies, contributed significantly to project implementation.
This was further facilitated by placing the PMOs in the respective planning departments rather
than in the line agencies (Section 5.2).

6.1.3 The innovation and adoption of new approaches need careful preparation and testing.
The project demonstrated that the establishment of WUAs, which was not considered at appraisal
but added at the time of the MTR, played a key role in improving the O&M of irrigation systems,
water-use efficiency, and the introduction of water charges. This greatly strengthened the
farmers' sense of ownership and also contributed significantly to sustainability. Based on this
experience, the Central Government has now adopted WUA development as national policy
(Sections 2.2 & 2.5).

6.1.4 Flexibility should be built-in to project design to accommodate changes in market
conditions. In project design, there should be clear distinction between blueprint and framework
activities, with more flexibility built in for the latter. Infrastructure works need to have clearly
defined scheduling and physical targets, whilst commercially-based activities (mostly
implemented by the private sector or farmers) should be treated as framework type. For these
activities, project design should only formulate selection criteria in line with market and local
conditions rather than specifying ex ante prescriptions. Otherwise, if designed as blueprint type,
there are high risks of being overtaken by fast changes in market demand or being crowded out
by alternative financing (Section 2.1.5).

6.1.5 Parallel financing with national programs is desirable to up-scale Bank project
operations. The good practices generated by Bank operations can be effectively scaled-up by
leveraging parallel financing from other large national and provincial programs (Section 2.5).




                                                 15

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

7.1.1 The Borrower's comments are presented in Annex 5.

(b) Co-financiers

7.1.2   There were no co-financiers of the project.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

7.1.3   There were no other partners or stake-holders in the project besides those mentioned in
this report.




                                             16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing



(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


                                  Appraisal Estimate     Actual /Latest
            Components                                     Estimate       Percentage of
                                                                           Appraisal
                                    (US$ million)         (US$ million)

 Water Resource Development             89.39               119.84           134.1

 Crop Development                       30.40                31.99           105.2

 Orchard Development                    22.72                45.54           200.5

 Sericulture Development                32.25                19.04             59.0

 Livestock Development                  11.54                19.21           166.5

 Agro-processing                        11.44                17.95           156.9

 Institutional Strengthening              8.03                 2.47            30.8

 Total Baseline Cost                   205.77               256.06           124.4

 Physical Contingencies                 17.04                  -               -

 Price Contingencies                     16.10                 -               -

 Front-end Fee                            0.90                 0.90           100.0

 Total Project Costs                   239.82               256.96            107.1



(b) Financing

                                     Appraisal              Actual
           Source of Funds            Estimate                            Percentage of
                                                                           Appraisal
                                    (US$ million)         (US$ million)
 Government                              79.8                95.55            120
 IBRD/IDA                              120.0                118.87             99
 Commercial Banks and Farmers            40.0               42.54             106
 Total Funds                           239.8                256.96            107




                                         17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


                                     Original Formally  Actual     Percentage Percentage
                                     Target   Revised  Achieved at  of PAD     of MTR
     Output Indicator        Unit    Values * Target   Completion
                                              Values
                                      (PAD)   (MTR)      (ICR)      percent    percent
A. Water Resources Development
1. Irrigated area             ha      20032    20032     20193       100.8      100.8

Manshuiwan
Gravity Irrigated             ha      12900    2680      13494       104.6      503.5
Pumped Irrigated              ha       1500    1500      1067         71.1       71.1
Subtotal irrigated            ha      14400    14400     14561       101.1      101.1

Shengli                       ha       2952
Gravity Irrigated             ha       2952    2952      2952         100        100
Pumped Irrigated              ha        0        0         0
Sub-total irrigated           ha       2952    2952      2952         100        100

Huangqiao                     ha       2680
Gravity Irrigated             ha       2680    2680      2680         100        100
Pumped Irrigated              ha
Sub-total irrigated           ha       2680    2680      2680         100        100
2. Manshuiwan
Open canal                    km      109.6     75.0      78.1        71.2      104.2
Closed Conduit                km       4.2      11.6      9.6        227.4       82.8
Aquaduct                      km       4.1      NA        4.5        108.4       NA
Tunnel                        km       16.3     22.5      23.3       142.5      103.5
                             sites     32       50         50        156.3      100.0
Inverted siphon               km       3.3      4.7       4.7        142.7       98.6
                             sites      4        8         8         200.0      100.0
Main Canal                    km       8.1      8.2       7.8         96.3       95.6
Left Canal                    km       33.4     32.8      32.5        97.5       99.2
Qionghai branch canal         km       16.0     12.7      11.6        72.8       91.6
Xide branch canal             km       80.1     67.3      68.1        85.0      101.2
Total Length canal system     km      137.6    121.0     120.1        87.3       99.2
Land acquisition              ha       80.8     NA        80.8       100.0       NA

Water supply:

   industrial use          10000 m3
                           per year    2290    2290      6600        288.2      288.2

   domestic use            10000 m3
                           per year    390      390      2310        592.3      592.3

Electricity generation      MkWh
                            per year   108      108       110        101.9      101.9




                                       18

                                        Original Formally  Actual     Percentage Percentage
                                        Target   Revised  Achieved at  of PAD     of MTR
     Output Indicator           Unit    Values *  Target  Completion
                                                  Values
                                         (PAD)    (MTR)     (ICR)      percent    percent



3. Shengli
Branch canal                     km       37.9     38.0      39.0       102.9      102.6
Lateral canal                    km      100.8     100.8     93.0        92.3       92.3
Ashuda Irrigated area             ha     884.0     884.0    884.0        100        100
Mahaida Irrigated area            ha     810.0     810.0    810.0        100        100
Zhumu Irrigated area              ha     975.0     975.0    975.0        100        100
4. Huangqiao
Height Dam                        m       68.0     68.0      74.2       109.1      109.1
 Sites                         amount      1         1        1         100.0      100.0
South main canal                 Km       18.8     18.8      17.7        93.9       93.9
North main canal                 Km       17.6     17.6      17.9       101.5      101.5

Branch canal                     Km       60.5     60.5      60.5       100.0      100.0
Lateral and sub-lateral canal    Km      656.0     656.0    656.0       100.0      100.0
Electricity generation         million
                               kwh/year    3.5      3.5       3.5       100.0      100.0

Domestic water supply          0000'm3
                               per year  135.0     135.0    350.0       259.3      259.3

Land reclamation                  ha     487.0     487.0    487.0       100.0      100.0
Land improvement                  ha     2193.0   2193.0    2193.0      100.0      100.0
B. Crop Development

Grain production
Liangshan
Land Reclamation                  ha     1,500.0  1,148.2   1,148.2      76.5      100.0

Land Improvement                  ha     5,000.0  2,526.2   2,526.2      50.5      100.0

Seed Propagation-Rice             ha      850       70        70         8.2       100.0

Seed Propagation-Wheat            ha     1,300     100       100         7.7       100.0

Seed Propagation-Corn             ha      150      535       535        356.7      100.0
New technical extension-
Rice                              ha      500      356       356         71.2      100.0

New-technical extension-
Wheat                             ha      500      356       356         71.2      100.0

New-technical extension-
Corn                              ha      400      295       295         73.8      100.0

New-technical extension-
Potatoes                          ha      360       80        80         22.2      100.0

Potato Seed Propagation          m2      2,100     1,000    1,525        72.6      152.5
Panzhihua

Land Reclamation                  ha     2,000     2,000    2,348       117.4      117.4

Land Improvement                  ha     4,800     4,800    6,100       127.1      127.1



                                          19

                                     Original Formally  Actual     Percentage Percentage
                                     Target   Revised  Achieved at  of PAD     of MTR
     Output Indicator       Unit    Values *  Target   Completion
                                              Values
                                     (PAD)    (MTR)      (ICR)      percent    percent
New technical extension-
Rice                         ha       500       500        500       100.0      100.0

New technical extension-
Corn                         ha       300       300        300       100.0      100.0

Vegetable Production
Vegetable production-New
Land                             ha   1,200    1,200     1,200       100.0      100.0

Vegetable improved land      ha       3,000    3,000     3,000       100.0      100.0

Vegetable sprinkler          ha        10       10         10        100.0      100.0
Production and yields of
crops
Yield ­ rice                    t/ha  8.50      NA         9.0       105.9       NA

Yield ­ wheat                   t/ha  4.00      NA         6.0       150.0       NA

Crop Intensity                    %   1.63      NA        2.14       131.3       NA

C. Orchard Development

Liangshan
Pomegranate-new              ha       440       510        526       119.5      103.1

Pomegranate-rehabilitated             300       300        300       100.0      100.0

Media                        ha       N.A       186        186        N.A       100.0

Oil rose                     ha       N.A      133.33    133.33       N.A       100.0

Floriculture                 ha       N.A      13.33     13.33        N.A       100.0

Sawabia                      ha       N.A      66.70     72.53        N.A       108.7

Panzhihua
Mango                        ha       990      1,400     1,640       165.7      117.1

Longan                       ha       315       516        517       164.1      100.2

Grape                        ha       667       N.A        718       107.6       N.A

D. Sericulture Development

Liangshan
Dry cocoon for reeling       t/y      1,736     N.A     2,642.68     152.2       N.A

Fresh cocoons                t/y      5,332     N.A     10,875.36    204.0       N.A

Silk month eggs            boxes/y   166,656    N.A     460,546      276.3       N.A

Panzhihua
Cocoon production
households                   hh      23,808     N.A      19,601       82.3       N.A

Yong silkworm households     hh       694       N.A        565        81.4       N.A

Mulberry farming             ha       2,666     N.A      3,700       138.8       N.A

E. Livestock Development

Sheep
Liangshan                    hh       5,200    4,000     4,000        76.9      100.0



                                      20

                                          Original Formally  Actual     Percentage Percentage
                                          Target   Revised  Achieved at  of PAD     of MTR
     Output Indicator               Unit  Values * Target   Completion
                                                   Values
                                           (PAD)   (MTR)      (ICR)      percent    percent

Panzhihua                           hh      1600    1600       980         61.3       61.3

Xiaowei Han Sheep                   hh
Liangshan                           hh              1200      1200         N.A       100.0

Panzhihua                           hh      1238    1238        44         3.6         3.6

Goats
Liangshan                           hh      5500    8716      8716        158.5      100.0

Panzhihua                           hh      1080    1080      3917        362.7      362.7

Ducks / Liangshan                   hh      500      800       800        160.0      100.0

Rabbits / Liangshan                 hh      200      200       200        100.0      100.0

Dairy Cattle / Liangshan            hh      N.A      626       626         N.A       100.0

Pasture Development
F. Agro-processing

Liangshan                          amount    4        4         4         100.0      100.0

G. Institutional Strengthening

Liangshan
Agri. Township Extension
Station                                     35       10         10         28.6      100.0

Livestock Township Training
Center                                      10       10         10        100.0      100.0

Livestock Township
Veterinary Station                          50       50         50        100.0      100.0

Panzhihua
Agri. Township Extension
Station                                     25       25         25        100.0      100.0

Livestock Township Training
Center                                       2        2         2         100.0      100.0

Livestock Township
Veterinary Station                          16       16         16        100.0      100.0


* The PAD targets are from the PIP.




                                            21

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


A.      Introduction

1.      This annex re-analyzes the financial and economic rates of return (FRRs and ERRs)
calculated at appraisal, using up-dated prices, actual project costs and the latest projections of
future benefits. Although the methodology used basically follows that used at appraisal, the
accuracy of estimation has been improved by using actual data and better projections of benefits
compared to those at appraisal. The water resources and crop models at ICR are also more
representative as they incorporate increases from both crop productivity and intensity; those at
appraisal were based only on yield increases and did not include potential changes in cropping
patterns and intensity. As such, the benefits were somewhat under-estimated in the PAD. In this
analysis, the actual project costs were derived from PMO records and projections were based on
the performance of current operations.

B.      Project Benefits

2.      The major quantifiable benefits (on an incremental basis) of the project are derived from:
(a) the agricultural production in the command areas of the three irrigation schemes under the
project and from the crop development component; (b) production from the Livestock
Development and Sericulture Development components, and value addition from agro-processing
units; and (c) power generation and water for domestic and industrial use under the Water
Resource Development component.

3.      Other significant benefits not included in the analysis are from: (a) a reduction in soil and
water erosion resulting from tree crop development in the previously barren land; (b) the
irrigation water supply from the Manshuiwan hydro-power station for the existing irrigation
schedules; and (c) increased agricultural production from project up-scaling activities and non-
project areas serviced by the improved agricultural extension system.

C.      Financial Analysis

4.      Financial analysis for crop, orchard and water resources development was undertaken
using one-hectare models based on "with-" and "without-project" scenarios. Similarly, for
livestock, sericulture and agro-processing, appropriate models were derived to assess incremental
returns. In the crop and livestock models, investment costs for technical and institutional
strengthening were not included as these were provided to farmers cost-free as public goods.
Investment and operating costs are valued at 2007 market prices and labor at Y20 per person-day.
Financial Rates of Return (FRRs) were calculated for the Water Resource Development, Crop
Development, Livestock Development, Sericulture Development and Agro-Processing
components as follows:

5.      Water Resources Development Component: As public irrigation schemes in China are not
treated as income-generating entities (at scheme level), FIRR analysis is not applicable;
incremental farm income analysis at household level (using with- and without-project models)
was undertaken for the three command areas under the project - Manshuiwan, Huangqiao and
Shengli (detailed assumptions used in the models are provided in the spreadsheet files) that
indicated that average annual household incomes increased by about 3,000 Yuan.




                                               22

6.      Crop Development: This component included the development of grain production in
Liangshan and Panzhihua and vegetable production in Panzhihua. Investment costs include land
reclamation, existing land improvement, technical extension and seed propagation. One-hectare
models were derived for the different of crops. In the project areas, cropping patterns were paddy
followed by wheat or corn or vegetables. As with the water resources component, FRR
calculation is not applicable as the net cash flow at the household level was all positive. Farm
models indicated that annual farm household incomes (with an average of four persons per
household) increased by 3,000-4000 Yuan.

7.      Orchard Development: The project covered new land development for pomegranate,
mango and longan and rehabilitation of existing pomegranate orchards. It also included the
development of mother tree gardens and nurseries to provide virus-free seedlings. Investment
costs for orchards included land development (explosive materials, machinery, works and labor),
irrigation facilities (water ponds, pumps, pipes and equipment) and fertilizer (manure and
chemical fertilizer). Maintenance costs after planting included fertilizer, chemicals, irrigation
water, tools and labor. For new orchards, revenues were generated from fruit production from
Year 4 and will reach full production by Year 7. For rehabilitated orchards, incremental costs and
benefits were used. The orchard development component achieved FRRs ranging from 20 to 42
percent depending on the type of fruit, the irrigation mode and the difficulty of land development.

8.      Livestock Development: The Livestock Development component is the major activity
under the project for poverty alleviation. The project supported income-generation activities
involving ducks, goats, sheep, cattle and rabbits, for which production models were developed.
Investment costs included the purchase of breeding stock, the construction of pens and provision
of concentrate feed. Operating costs for households included feed, veterinary cost, tools and
utilities. An estimate of the FRRs for the different livestock activities ranged from 17 to 28
percent, depending on investment costs, animal performance and product prices.

9.      Sericulture: The Sericulture Development component was executed as a vertically
integrated system based on identified market demand for reeled silk and dried cocoons for export.
This included all activities in the sericulture system covering mulberry production, silk moth egg
production, young silkworm farming, cocoon farming, cocoon drying centers and reeling mills.
Farmer households participated in mulberry leaf production and the production of young worms
and cocoons. These activities were largely supplementary as mulberry was grown on the
periphery of plots rather than as a main crop. Investment costs for egg grainage, drying centers
and reeling mills included civil works (land preparation and buildings), equipment, vehicles,
training, technical assistance, design costs, and overhead during construction; operating costs
covered the cost of raw materials and packing materials, labor, utilities, salaries, office overheads,
insurance, maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles, and marketing. Investment costs
for households were limited to the provision of materials for civil works (power and water supply,
drainage and disinfectant pool), rehabilitation of existing worm and cocoon houses, cocoon
raising tools and equipment. Operating costs included raw materials (mulberry leaf, young silk
worms, silk worm rearing costs, consumables and utilities). The Sericulture Development
component as an integrated production system produced an IRR of 33 percent.

10.     Agro-processing: There were four enterprises under this component: a rice mill, a seed
processing mill, a wholesale market and a vegetable processing unit (added at the time of the
MTR). Investment costs included civil works (land preparation and buildings), equipment,
vehicles, training and technical assistance. Operating costs include variable costs for raw
materials and packing materials, utilities, and fixed costs for workers salaries and welfare, office
overheads, insurance, maintenance of buildings, equipment, and vehicles, and marketing costs.


                                                 23

Financial analyses were undertaken for the four enterprises individually on the basis of present
and projected production, investments and operating costs. The major assumptions for financial
analysis were: (a) in line with prevailing practice for agro-processing enterprises, the project life
was assumed to be 20 years; (b) investment costs used in the analyses were based on actual costs
incurred, including procurement and installation of equipment and training; (c) the residual value
of fixed assets is estimated at five percent of book value and considered as a cash in-flow at the
end of project life; (d) revenues were derived from sales generated from operating capacity
achieved from past years and projected values for the future and sales; (e) the operating costs
were derived from the costs of raw materials, labor, utilities, marketing and administrative
expenses; (f) incremental working capital was included in cash flow analysis and calculated on
the basis of capacity utilization and current assets and liabilities as projected by managers; (g)
agro-processing is VAT-exempt, whilst corporate income tax is 33 percent of taxable income:
depreciation (as an income tax shield) was calculated using the straight line method; and (h)
capacity utilization for years in operation is that actually achieved, whilst future projections were
provided by factory managers.

11.    Fruit wholesale market model: Although an attempt was made to derive financial models
for wholesale markets along similar lines to processing units, the data available were less detailed.

12.    Based on the approach and assumptions above, the FRRs (calculated on net cash flow after
tax) for processing units and wholesale market are estimated at between 19 - 25 percent.

D.     Economic Analysis

13.    Economic analysis was carried out separately for each productive component, combining
the investment costs for household production and agro-processing enterprises and the investment
costs for project management and agricultural services and extension. The project costs used in
the analysis were based on actual costs incurred. The analysis for both cost and benefit flows was
based on 2007 constant prices. At appraisal, World Bank price projections or average export
prices actually realized by China were used to estimate farm-gate economic prices in 1997
constant terms for traded inputs and outputs, while economic prices for non-traded goods were
estimated using conversion factors. However, the Chinese economy during the period of project
implementation, particularly since its accession to WTO in 2001, has increasingly integrated into
the world economy and it is generally acknowledged that the economy has achieved "market
status". Therefore, current input and output market prices basically reflect actual export and
import parity prices for traded products of identical varieties and quality. Furthermore, the
project areas are in landlocked Sichuan Province where intra-provincial and inter-provincial trade
is far more important than international trade. As such, the financial prices are used as "proxies"
for economic prices. Similarly, no further adjustments are made to the prices of non-tradable
farm inputs and outputs. As the Chinese yuan has been under pressure for appreciation, the
foreign exchange premium is therefore not relevant in China for now. In addition, China waived
agricultural tax in 2005.

14.    Based on the factors above, the FRR before tax and financing, which measures the return
on the total resources engaged, has been taken as the ERR for the processing units and wholesale
market and no further adjustments are made to the cash flows of agricultural production models
as farmers do not pay agricultural tax. The economic analysis has been carried out for each
component and for the project as a whole. The ERR calculation of the each component has taken
into account all incremental benefits and costs (including investment costs for project
management, and agricultural services and extension) in an aggregated economic cash flow in
line with the physical achievements for each component. The ERR for the project as a whole is


                                                24

calculated by aggregating the net cash flows of individual components. The ERRs for individual
components are estimated between 18 ­ 37 percent and for the project as a whole at 27 percent.
These rates of returns are both attractive and robust. The revised ERRs for each component and
for the project as a whole compared to the PAD estimates are summarized below; the detailed
calculations are in the project file. The notable difference in ERRs at ICR and PAD for the Water
Resource Development component is largely explained by the under-estimation of the benefits at
appraisal. As pointed out above, while the models developed then did catch the incremental
benefits from yield increases, they failed to take into account the benefits arising from increased
cropping intensity and changes in cropping patterns.

                     Table 1: Comparison of ERRs between PAD and ICR


                          Components                         PAD                ICR
                                                           (percent)         (percent)
            Water Resource Development:                       17                 22
                Manshuiwan                                    14                 18
                Huangqiao                                     17                 31
                Shengli                                       26                 33
            Crop Development                                  39                 37
            Sericulture Development                           29                 33
            Orchard Development                               30                 30
            Livestock Development                             19                 25
            Agro-processing                                   20                 28
                         Total Project                        25                 27




                                               25

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes



(a) Task Team members


       Names                        Title                  Unit          Responsibility/
                                                                             Specialty

Lending

Rapeepun Jaisaard Agricultural Economist                EASRD       Task Team Leader
Ayi Bamo          Sociologist                                       Social Development
Robert Crooks     Senior Environment Specialist         EASRE       Environment Assessment
David Gue         Agro-Processing Engineer              Consultant  Agro-Processing
Ian Hancock       Agronomist                                        Crop/Orchard Development
Steven Harrell    Anthropologist                                    Social Development
Mary Judd         Senior Anthropologist                 EASSO       Social Development
Bert L. Kramer    Water Resources Specialist             EASRD      Water Resources
Kerry McIntyre    Livestock Specialist                  FAO         Livestock
Ashley Morton     Sericulturist                         FAO         Sericulture
Robert Paterson   Irrigation and Drainage               FAO         Water Resources
Arlene Reyes      Team Assistant                         EASRD
Tong Zhong        Agricultural Economist                Consultant  Economic Analysis
Youlan Zou        Operations Officer                    EACCF       Social Assessment



Supervision/ICR

Rapeepun Jaisaard Agricultural Economist                EASRD       Task Team Leader (to 2000)
Mohamed N. Benali Lead Operations Officer               EASRE       Task Team Leader (to 2003)
Nathan Belete     Senior Rural Development Economist     EASRE      Task Team Leader (to ICR)
Yi Dong           Senior Financial Management Specialist EAPCO      Financial Management
Yiren Feng        Environmental Specialist              EASRD       Safeguard Policies
Liping Jiang      Senior Irrigation Engineer            EASRE       Water Resources
Bert L. Kramer    Water Resources Engineer               Consultant Water Resources
Xiaoping Li       Senior Procurement Specialist          EAPCO      Procurement
Xueming Liu       Economist                             FAO         Economic Analysis
Bo Zheng          Agronomist                            Consultant  Agriculture
Tong Zhong        Agricultural Economist                 EASRD      Economic Analysis
Youlan Zou        Senior Social Development Specialist  EACCF       Safeguard Policies




                                            26

(b) Staff Time and Cost


                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

      Stage of Project Cycle
                               No. of staff weeks  US$ thousands (including travel
                                                        and consultant costs)


Lending

               FY97                                         130.41
               FY98                                         263.55
               FY99                                           65.00
               FY00                                           0.00
               FY01                                           9.50
               FY02                                           0.00
               FY03                                           0.00
               FY04                                           0.00
               FY05                                           0.00
               FY06                                           0.00
               FY07                                           0.00
Total                                                       468.46

Supervision/ICR
               FY97                                           0.00
               FY98                                           0.00
               FY99                                           25.72
               FY00                       17                101.33
               FY01                       17                  78.27
               FY02                       18                111.48
               FY03                       16                  92.01
               FY04                       19                  94.63
               FY05                       11                  47.20
               FY06                        9                  58.26
               FY07                        5                  21.27

Total                                   112                 630.17




                                    27

Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                     28

29

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


1. QAG evaluation of Quality at Entry.
2. Aide Memoires and related Annexes prepared by the supervision missions
3. Aide Memoire and related Annexes of the ICR mission
4. Consolidated ICR and its Annexes prepared by the PPMO of Sichuan Province
5. ICR and its Annexes prepared by the PMO of Liangshan Municipality
6. ICR and its Annexes prepared by the PMO of Panzhihua Municipality
7. Annual Monitoring & Evaluation Reports consolidated by PPMO
8. List of New Technologies Adopted under the Project
9. Models for financial and economic analysis (spreadsheets)




                                          30

                                                                                                                          GRAIN:                          SERICULTURE:                                                                    CITIES

                                                                                                                           GRAIN PRODUCTION                 COCOON (HOUSEHOLD)                                                            REGIONAL CITIES
                                                CHINA                                                                      SEED PRODUCTION                  DRYING CENTER                                                                 NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
                               ANNING VALLEY                                                                              VEGETABLES:                       REELING MILL                                                                  NATIONAL ROADS
                                                                                                                                                          LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION:
             AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                                      VEGETABLE PRODUCTION                                                                                           OTHER ROADS
                                                                                                                                                            SHEEP
                                                                                                                           VEGETABLE SEED                                                                                                 RAILROADS
                                           PROJECT                                                                                                          GOAT
                                                                                                                          FRUIT:                                                                                                          COUNTY BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                            DUCK
                                                                                                                           POMEGRANATE                                                                                                    PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                            RABBIT
                                                                                                                           LONGAN                                                                                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                     AGRO-PROCESSING:
                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown                                MANGO                           RICE MILL
                      on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any                                                                   SEED PROCESSING
                      judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or                                WATER:
                      acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                       VENTILATED STORE
                                                                                                                           IRRIGATION                      FRUIT WHOLESALE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Chengdu


                                                                                                                        Y A ' A N                                                                                                            L E S H A N
                                                                                                                  To Chengdu

                                 G A R Z Ê Z A N G Z U

                                       Z I Z H I Z H O U




                                                                                          Mianning               Manshuiwan
                                                                                                                 Irrigation



                                                                             M I A N N I N G


                                                                                                                             Xide




                                                                                                    River

                                                                                                                           X I D E            ZHAOJUE

                                                                                              Anning
                                                                                                                                            Zhaojue



                                                                                                                 Xichang


                                                                                                                  Qionghai
                                                                                                                  Branch Canal
                                                                                    XICHANG
                                                                                                                                                 Butuo                                                                  River

                                                                                                                                                                                                          Jinsha
                                                                                                                                                 B U T U O
                                                                                                                             P U G E


                                                                                                          Xide Branch
                                                                                                          Canal


                                                                                        Dechang                                    Puge


                                                                                           DECHANG

                                                                                                                                                                                                   Q I N G H A I                        G A N S U


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S H A A N X I


                                                                                                                                      NINGNAN
                              Y A N B I A N                                                                                            Ningnan

                                                                         Huangqiao
                                                                          Irrigation                                                                                                                                               Chengdu

                                Yanbian                                    M I Y I                                                                                                                                       S I C H U A N
                                                                                                                                                                                          XIZANG                                                                          Jiang

                                                                                      Miyi                                                                                                                                                                  CHONGQING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Area of main map
                                                                                                                 H U I L I                                                                                                                                 Chang




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           G U I Z H O U
                                          PANZHIHUA                                                 Huili
                                              Xiqu                                                                          Huidong                                         ANMAR                                                                         0        100      200
                                                                                                                                                                                 MY               Y U N N A N                                                 KILOMETERS


                                           Panzhihua                                                                                                                                             M O N G O L I A                       L                         JILIN
                                                                Renhe
                                                                                                                                         HUIDONG                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G                   LIAONING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 N                                  DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M                                     REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Beijing

                          River                                                                                                                                                                               N     E   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TIANJIN

                 Jinsha                                                                                                                                                                                                                HEBEI                             REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHANXI
                                                                    Sheng Li                                                                                                                                                                SHANDONG
                                                                   Irrigation                                                                                                                                                                                Ye l l o w

                                                                                                                                                                                          QINGHAI                NINGXIA                                       S e a

                                                                                                                     River                                                                               GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHAANXI    HENAN             JIANGSU

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ANHUI
                                                                                                             Jinsha                                                                                                                                          SHANGHAI

                                                                                                                                                                                                  S I C H U A N                    HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Area of                                                                E a s t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                      XIZANG                      main map      CHONGQING                                               C h i n a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HUNAN
                                                       To Kunming                                                                                                                                                                          JIANGXI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                GUIZHOU                              FUJIAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TAIWAN
DECEMBER                                                                                                                                                                                         YUNNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GUANGXI    GUANGDONG                                    IBRD
                0    10      20      30       40        50                Y U N N A N                            P R O V I N C E                                                                                                             HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MACAO, PORT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           VIETNAM
                            KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                             ANMAR                                                       South                                  29689
        1998                                                                                                                                                                            MY            LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                   PEOPLE'S                                  China Sea
                                                                                                                                                                     THAILAND                         DEM.                     HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                      REP.                                                   PHILIPPINES

                     102°00'                                                                            To Chengdu               102°30'                                                                    CHINA
              MANSHUIWAN SUB-COMPONENT                                                                                         A                               ANNING VALLEY AGRICULTURAL
                                                                                                                                                                           DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                        WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT:                                                                                                                                    ELEVATIONS:

                                                                                                                                                                                MANSHUIWAN WEIR

                                                                                                                                                                                CANALS                                                                                                                                   9000 FEET

                                                                                                                                                                                HUANGTUPO POWER STATION                                                                                                                  5000 FEET


                                                                                                                                                                            OTHER WEIRS                                                                                                                                 MAIN ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                            OTHER CANALS                                                                                                                                RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                            DAM                                                                                                                                         COUNTY BOUNDARIES
                                              Daqiao Dam                                                                                                                    WATERSHED BOUNDARY



                                                                                                                                                                             NEI MONGOL                           BEIJING                                                                               Beijing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HEBEI                                         REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SHANDONG               Ye l l o w

                                                                                                                                                               QINGHAI               NINGXIA                                                                                                                                 S e a
                                      Mianning                                                                                                                               GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                            SHAANXI              HENAN                                                                                          JIANGSU

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SHANGHAI


              28°30'                                                                                                               28°30'                             S I C H U A N                              HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         E a s t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                  XIZANG                            CHONGQING                                                                                                                                           C h i n a
                                                                      River                                                                                                  Area of
                                                                                                                                                                             map A at left                                                                                                                                                S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                             HUNAN                                                                              JIANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                        GUIZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                           Area of map B below                                                                                                                  FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                                                           Area of imap C below
                        MIANNING                                Anning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TAIWAN

                                                                                                                                                                   YUNNAN                     GUANGXI                                                    GUANGDONG

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MACAO, PORT.

                                                                                                                                                        ANMAR                   VIETNAM                                                                                                                   South
                                                                                                                                                                          LAO
                                                                                                                                                             MY         PEOPLE'S                                                                                                                                                      PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                                                                                        DEM.REP.                  HAINAN                                                                                                China Sea
                                                                                                                       Xide
                                                                                                                                                 HUANG QIAO SUB-COMPONENT                                                                                                                                          102°10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Dechang         B
                                               Lugu                                                                                                                                              Puwei                                                                                                               R.


                                                                                                                                                  27°00'                                                       Huangqiao                                                                                       Anning                         27°00'
                                Manshuiwan Weir                                                                                                         0               5       10          Henshang             DamLeft                                                                        Bank Main
                                                                                                                                                                   KILOMETERS                                                                                                              Canal 1420 ha
                                                                                                                                                                                   Yun
                                                                                                                                                                                   Feng

                                                         Huangtupo                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Caochang

                                                            Power                                                                                                                                                                                                                             River

                                                            Station
                                                                                                                                                                            M I Y I                      Right Bank Main
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Canal 1260 ha                                                                                   Miyi
                                                                                                                 X I D E                                                                                                                                                                                                              Yimen


                                                                                                                                                  26°50'                                                                                                                                                                                     26°50'



                                                                      Main


                                                                             Canal

                                         Lizhou                                                                                                  Anning
                                                                                  2900


                                                                                      ha
              28°00'                                                                                                               28°00'
                                                                                                                                                  26°40'                                                                                                                                                                     Huili            26°40'




                                                                                                                                                Jinsha                                                                                                   Tuan-lang-ho

                                                                                                                                                                 River                                                                                                                                          Luchang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                To Shengli
                                                                                                                                     ZHAOJUE                                                                Sub-Component
                                               Anning                                                                                                          101°50'                           102°00'                                                                                                           102°10'              Chuang-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        chia-ts'un


                                                                                                                                                 101°40'                SHENGLI                                  Anning
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  River                                                                                      101°50'
                                                       River                                               Qionghai Branch                              SUB-COMPONENT
                                                                                                               4007 ha                                                                                       River
                                                                                                    Qiong
                                                                                                     Hai                                                            Bincaogang
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jinsha



                                                                                                                                                                             Panzhihua                            BAOANYING

                                                                                                                                                                                 City                                                                                                      Zhumu                Jin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M             Jiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tuwulin                                                                                                       Zhumu
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Reservoir                                                                                                     Branch Canal
                                                                                                                                                                      Houmenkou              Ashuda                                                                                              ountain                  14.4 km., 975 ha.
               X I C H A N G                                                                                                                                                                 Branch                                                      Xiangyang

                                                                                                                                                 26°30'                                      Canal                                                       Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                  Dahe                                                                                                                                             Mahaida    26°30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                8.3 km.,                                                                                                  Yutang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Branch Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                884 ha.                                                                                                                            15.2 km.,
                                                                                                                                                                                             Dahe                                                                                                                            Jinsha
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   810 ha.
                                                                 Xide
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Wuguitang
                                                                           Branch                                                                                                                  reviR                                                                                   Reservoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        River
                                                                                                                                                                                             Zongfa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Hunsala
                                                                                 7493                                       P U G E                                                                                                                 lanaC Reservoir


                                                                                     ha                                                                                                                                                         8.81                               gnitsixE




              27°30'                             River                                                                             27°30'                                                                                                                                seR

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      rev
                                                                                                                                                                 0    1  2  3   4 5

DECEMBER                                                                           D E C H A N G                                                                      KILOMETERS                         Yizi               ,)delennutylniam(.mk                            ilgnehS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 dna

                                         Anning                                                                                                  26°20'                                                      R.          382                                 niaM                                                                             26°20' IBRD
                                                                                                    0       5         10     15    20                                                                                 .ah
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         29690
        1998                                                                                                      KILOMETERS
                                                                                            To Miyi
                      102°00'                                Dechang                                                              102°30'                                                                       Shengli
                                                                                                                                                101°40'                                                         Reservoir                                                                                  101°50'

                                                                                CHINA                                                                                                                                 Q I N G H A I                                      G A N S U


              ANNING VALLEY AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S H A A N X I


                                      WATER RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
                                                                 SHENGLI SUB-COMPONENT

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Chengdu
                                                         PROJECT CANALS                                                               ELEVATIONS:                                                                                                  S I C H U A N
                                                         WEIRS                                                                                                                                               XIZANG                                                                                                 Jiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CHONGQING
                                                         OTHER CANALS                                                                  5000 FEET

                                                         TUNNELS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Chang


                                                         AQUEDUCTS                                                                    MAIN ROADS

                                                         SIPHON                                                                       RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROJECT
                                                         CLOSED CANALS                                                                RIVERS                                                                                                                AREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   G U I Z H O U
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Area of
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ANMAR                                                 map                                    0     100          200
                                                                                                                                                                                                           MY       Y U N N A N                                                                       KILOMETERS



                                                                                101°45'                                                                                                                                                  101°50'
                                                                                                                                                                               River


                 0             1            2            3            4        5                                                                                         Yalong

                                             KILOMETERS




                                                                Jinsha
             26°35'            Bincaogang

                                                                       River




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    26°35'
                                                                                                                                             Benchmark (km+m):14+373
                                                                                                                                             Elevation (m):1377.453
                                                                                                                                             Discharge (m3/s):0.41
             Panzhihua                                                                                                                       Irrigated area (m ):6660

                City
                                                                                                                                               BAOANYING


                                                                                                                                                            Zhum
                                                                                                                                                                u
                                                                                                                                                                 M


                                                                                          Benchmark (km+m):8+332
                                                                                          Elevation (m):1389.985
                                                                                          Discharge (m3/s):0.37
                                                                                          Irrigated area (m ):5317                                                ountain                                                              Jin Jiang




                                                                                                                      Tuwulin
                                        Huomenkou                                                                     Reservoir


                                                                           Jigongying
                                                                             Tunnel                                                                                                                                                      Zhumu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mountain
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Branch
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Canal
                                                                                                                                              Benchmark (km+m):0+000
             26°30'                                                                                                                           Elevation (m):1398.505
                                                                                                                                              Discharge (m3/s):1.0
                                                                                                                                              Irrigated area (m ):14620
                                                                                                                     Ashuda

                                                            Dahe                                                                            Xiangyang
                                                                                 Chenjiawan                                Branch             Reservoir
                                                                                   Tunnel                                                                                           Yutang
                                                                                                                                 Canal

                                                                                               Dusongshu                                                                                                                                                           Jinsha                                           26°30'
                                                                                                                     Tunnel
                                                            Dahe
                                                                                   Benchmark (km+m):0+000
                                                                                   Elevation (m):1403.441
                                                                River              Discharge (m3/s):1.0                                                                                                                                                                    River
                                                                                   Irrigated area (m ):13257                                         Wuguitang
                                                                                                                                                       Reservoir
                                                                                                                         Hongshiyan
                                                                                                                             Tunnel                                                           Mahaida
                                                                                                                                                                                                Branch

                                                                                                                                             Benchmark (km+m):0+000                              Canal
                                                                                                                                             Elevation (m):1401.990
                                                                                                                          Shizishan          Discharge (m3/s):2.0
                                                                                                                            Tunnel           Irrigated area (m ):12153




                                                                                   Zongfa
                                                                                       Jiudaoguai
                                                                                          Tunnel


                                                                                                                                                                                              Benchmark (km+m):15+170
                                                                                                                                                         Hunsala                              Elevation (m):1380.083
                                                                                                                                                                                              Discharge (m3/s):0.4
                                                                                                                Canal                                    Reservoir                            Irrigated area (m ):5300


                                                                                                            Main
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JILIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M O N G O L I A                           L
                                                                                                        voir                                                                                                                                                                    O                LIAONING
             26°25'                                                                                                    Dalongtan                                                                                                                                         G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      N                                        DEM. PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                         Tunnel                                                                                                                                    O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                M                                              REP. OF KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BEIJING
                                                                                                   Reser                                                                                                                                                                                Beijing

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N   E   I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HEBEI                              REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHANDONG
                                                                                            Shengli                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ye l l o w
                                                                                                                                                                                                 26°25'                             QINGHAI          NINGXIA                                             S e a

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHAANXI      HENAN                 JIANGSU

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SHANGHAI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S I C H U A N                    HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Project                                                                    E a s t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ZHEJIANG
                This map was produced by the                                                                                                                                                                           XIZANG              area     CHONGQING                                                      C h i n a

                Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S e a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     HUNAN           JIANGXI
                The boundaries, colors, denominations                                                                                                                                                                                                GUIZHOU                                   FUJIAN
                and any other information shown on
                this map do not imply, on the part of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TAIWAN
OCTOBER                                                                                                                                                                                                                                YUNNAN
                The World Bank Group, any judgment                                                                                                                                                                                                           GUANGXI            GUANGDONG
                on the legal status of any territory, or                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HONG KONG
                any endorsement or acceptance of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MACAO, PORT.

                such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                             ANMAR               VIETNAM                                 South                                   29691
       1998                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MY        LAO
                                                   101°45'                                                                                                                                                                               PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                                                                      101°50'                                                                                          China Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HAINAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      THAILAND              DEM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            REP.                                                       PHILIPPINES

