Report No. 602a-CH
Appraisal of                                                          FILE COPY
Copper Sector Project
Chile
January 7, 1976
Industrial Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS                      WEIGHTTS AID MEASURES
Except where otherwise indicated, all             All units are metric
figures are auoted in U.S. Dollars (US$)
and in Chilean Escudo (EO)
US$ 1            E°  1,050                        1 metric ton  = 1,000 Kilograms
E° 1            US$ 0.00095                      1 metric ton  = 2,205 Pounds
E° 1,000        us$ o09524                       1 kilometer   = 0.62  Miles
Fo 1,000,00    U0$ 952.38                        1 meter       = 39.3  Inches
In October 1975, the Escudo was replaced
by the Peso (Ch$) as Chile's monetary
unit.  Each Ch$ was initially designated
as Ch-tt = F,°1000.  The exchange rate and
currency equivalent in effect on December
31, 1975 were as follows:
US1$ 1        =  Ch$ 8.50
Ch$ 1         =  US$ 0.1176
Ch$ 1,000     =  US$ 117.64
Ch$ 1,000,000 =  US$ 117,6147.06
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACQDNYMS
CAP- Cia de Acero de Pacifico (The State iron ore mining and steel making
enterprise)
CIMM- Centro de Irnvestigacion Minera y Metalurgica. (Mining and Metallurgical
Research Center)
CODELCO- Cornoracion del Cobre (State enterprise established to operate the
major copper mines end related facilities)
COR1- Corporacion de Formento de la Produccion (State industrial development
corporation)
ENAMI- 7Npreza Nacional de Mineria (State agency responsible for small and
medium mining sector)
IIG- Instituto de Investigaciones Geologicas (Geological Survey)
SOMCEX- Sociedad Minera 7xplorador y Explotador de Minas (Exploration drilling
subsidiary of CODELCO)
Fiscal Year: January 1 to Dehcember 31



CHILE
COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............................  i - iii
I.  INTRODUCTION .......................                                  1
II.   THE COPPER SECTOR IN CHILE   ..........................    2
A.   History and Development of the Sector ..........    2
1.   Early Development   .........................    2
2.   Recent Development and Production Trends ...             2
B.  'Structure of the Sector   ........................             3
C.   The State-Owned Enterprises   .....           ...............    4
1.   CODELCO   ...................................    4
2.   ENAMI  .....................................    7
D.   The Contribution of Sector to Chilean Economy ...              9
1.   Foreign Exchange   ..........................    9
2.   Tax Revenues   ..............................   10
3.   Employment .......................                      10
E.   Sector Performance   .......................   10
F.   Investment Plans and Financing Needs of Sector ..   11
III.   THE COPPER MARKET ........................                          12
A.    Enternational Supply and Demand for Copper  .....            12
B.   Copper Price Structure and Projections  .... .....   14
C.   Marketing of Chilean Copper   ......... ...........   15
1.   Sales Organization  ......          ..................   15
2.   Sales Procedures   ......         ....................   15
3.   Price Policy   .......         .......................   16
4.   Destination of Sales  .....           .................   16
This report was prepared by Messrs. Bosson and Lorenz, Industrial Projects
Department and Messrs McCarthy and Aguirre-Sacasa, Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Programs Department.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.   THE PROJECT  ..........          .....................   16
A. Background ...............                                  16
B.   Description ....................................,16
1.   CODELCO Projects ...........................   17
2.   ENAMI Projects  ............................   20
C.   Ecology  .............         ...................   20
D.   Organization and Management  ........ ............   21
E.   Implementation Schedule  ........... .............   21
F.   Project Costs ..................                          21
G.   Financing Plan  ..................    23
H.   Procurement, Allocation of Bank Loan and
Disbursement .............    24
I.   Financial Analysis of the Project  ....        ..........   24
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF THE COMPANIES  .....         ............   25
A.   CODELCO .........................................   25
1.   Financial Position  ......       ..................   25
2.   Auditing  ...........     .......................   26
B.   ENAMI ..........................................   27
1.   Financial Position  ......        ..................   27
2.   Auditing  ...........      .......................   27
VI.   ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION FOR THE PROJECT ..............   27
A.   Benefits to the Economy  ......        ..................   27
B.   Foreign Exchange Effect  ......       ..................
C.   Employment Effect  ........      ......................    3
D.   Economic Rate of Return ........................   28
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED  ...........       .......................   28
ANNEXES
1 Glossary of Technical Terms
2-1 The Developrent of Copper in Chile
2-2 Structure of Copper Sector
2-3 CODELCO (Corporacion del Cobre)
2-4 Empresa Nacional de Mineria (ENAMI)
2-5 Contribution of the Copper Sector to the Chilean Economy
2-6 Policies of the Copper Sector
2-7 Past Investments in the Chile Copper Sector
2-8 Future Expansion and Production of the Copper Sector



ANNEXES (Cont'd)
3-1 The Copper Market
3-2 Marketing of Chilean Copper
4 Project Description
MAP - Location of Large and Medium-sized Mines (IBRD 11417)






CHILE
COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a Copper Sector Project in Chile for a pro-
posed Bank loan of US$33 million equivalent, consisting of several sub-projects
which are directed primarily toward maintaining the country's copper output,
and copper generated foreign exchange earnings, reducing operating costs and--
as a by-product of these objectives--marginally increasing Chile's proportion
of processed copper. In addition to the specific sub-projects, the loan would
include some important technical assistance aimed at strengthening the manage-
ments of the two enterprises which are to carry out the sub-projects.
ii.       The loan would be made to the Republic of Chile and the proceeds
on-lend to Corporacion de del Cobre (CODELCO) and Empresa Nacional de Mineria
(ENAMI), the two state-owned entities, which account for more than 95% of
the country's production of copper. The loan would be for over 15 years, in-
cluding 3.5 years of grace and bear an interest of 8.5%. The subloans to
CODELCO and ENAMI (US$29.54 million to the former and US$3.46 to the latter)
would have the same maturities and grace periods as the Bank loan to Chile
but would bear a 10% interest rate.
iii.      Chile's copper mining industry accounts for approximately 75% of
the country's foreign exchange earnings. Copper production continues to
provide the best opportunities for increasing Chile's foreign exchange earn-
ings with relatively modest investment. The balance of payments situation
in the short and medium term is likely to be decisively influenced by the
fluctuations of world copper prices. Lowering costs by improving production
efficiency is of considerable significance since earnings from copper are
expected to provide a substantial component of government revenues in the
future.
iv.       The Chilean copper sector comprises three groups of mining opera-
tions: Gran Mineria (large-scale); Mediana Mineria (medium-scale) and Pequena
Mineria (small-scale). The Gran Mineria is made up of five large mining
operations, two of which, Exotica and Andina, started production only recently
(1970-71); each of them was originally owned by US companies. After national-
ization in 1971 these operations came under the direction of CODELCO acting
as a holding company, thus becoming the largest copper producing company out-
side of the USSR. The Gran Mineria currently accounts for about 85% of Chile's
copper output with two mines--Chuquicamata and El Teniente, respectively the
largest nonferrous open-pit and underground mines in the world--contributing
about 75% of Gran Mineria output.
v.        The Mediana and Pequena Mineria account for the remainder of Chile's
copper production. The largest entity in these sub-sectors is ENAMI whose



- ii -
primary function is to purchase and to process in its own smelting and refining
facilities partially treated copper minerals from the small- and medium sized
mining producers.
vi.       Chile is a member of the Conseil Intergouvernemental des Pays
Exportateurs de Cuivre (CIPEC) and accounts for 20-25% of the world's pub-
lished reserves, 12-13% of its mine production and 20% of global net exports.
Chile's sales are widely dispersed, placing it in a strong market position.
However, the copper market is characterized by considerable price instability
which has been having serious repercussions on Chile's foreign exchange earnings
and tax revenues. After a period of very high prices, reaching US$1.52 per lb.
in April 1974, the copper price fell during 1975 to below US$0.60 per lb., as
the result of a temporary over-supply situation created by a drop in demand
due to the slowdown in the economic growth of the major copper-consuming
countries. The CIPEC countries in November 1974 called for action to halt the
decline in prices and agreed to temporarily reduce their copper exports by 10%.
A further cutback of 5% was agreed upon in April 1975, this time applying the
reduction to production as well. Some of the major US and Canadian copper
companies have similarly cut back production. Copper prices are expected,
however, to improve during the remainder of the decade. In carrying out a
cutback in copper production, Chile has shut down the Exotica Mine-- whnic2h was
incurring substantial losses at the current low copper price--until some tech-
nological problems which have come up in processing Exotica ore can be solved.
vii.      CODELCO and ENAMI have put together an investment program of high
priority amounting to about US$890 million. This program is intented to
maintain production and modernize existing facilities thereby as a result also
increasing Chile's copper producing capacities from present levels of about
900,000 MT to 1,100,000 MT per year by 1980 at the earliest. Four independent
and self contained sub-projects were selected from this investment program
for Bank assistance based primarily on the need to maintain existing capacity,
improve production efficiency and reduce operating costs. These, together
with technical assistance expenditures reresent a total project cost of
US$76.8 million of which US$33 million would be the foreign exchange component,
equivalent to 43% of net project cost.  The proposed loan of US$33 mil-  mil-
lion will finance the following project components:
(a)  Introduction of an underground crushing system at CODELCO's
El Teniente mine to handle the different and bulkier type of ore
that soon will have to be mined. Without this sub-project the
mine would face an increasingly severe production loss which by
1980 would amount to about 30% of present production;
(b)  Rehabilitation of CODELCO's Barquito power plant which supplies
the El Salvador mining, smelting and refining facilities. This
sub-project will eliminate the danger of plant shutdown due to
power failure--and the consequent loss of production--as well as
result in considerable fuel and maintenance cost savings:



- iii -
(c)  Construction of a selenium recovery plant at CODELCO's Chiquicamata
mining complex aimed at the recovery of this metal from the tail-
ings of the Chiquicamata and El Salvador copper refineries;
(d) Replacement of obsolete equipment at ENAMI's Ventanas and Paipote
smelters and the modifications of both smelters to burn Chilean
coal. Replacement of the equipment is needed to avert breakdowns
and production losses and to lower maintenance costs; and
(e) Provision of technical assistance to CODELCO and ENAMI to aid in
(i) preparing a comprehensive smelting and refining development
strategy for the sector; (ii) preparing long-term mining plans
for the El Teniente and Chuquicamata mines; (iii) strengthening
project preparation and evaluation capabilities within CODELCO and
ENAMI; (iv) improving CODELCO's internal cost accounting, inventory
and budgetary control; (v) defining ENAMI's role in further expansion
of the small and medium scale mining sector, and (vi) assisting the
Government in formulating an overall development strategy for the
sector while strengthening the coordination of sector planning.
viii.     The above sub-projects represent a small but urgent and important
prerequisite to any longer term investment plan which contemplates the fur-
ther expansion of existing copper mines as well as the development of new
deposits. The major constraints to increasing output are market considerations,
the availability of financing and the absorptive capacity of the sector's
institutions.
ix.       The financial rates of return of the individual sub-projects are
expected to range from 35 to over 50% even using conservative price and cost
assumptions. The economic rates of return will be marginally higher since
transfer payments to the Government, apart from taxes, are not significant
and more than 95% of the copper will be exported at world market prices.
These are unusually high returns and demonstrate the particular benefits that
the sub-projects are expected to create. The foreign exchange benefits from
the project are also significant, reaching more than US$100 milnion per year
by 1980.
x.        Apart from covering the foreign exchange component of the technical
assistance, the loan would be used to procure equipment and materials by inter-
national competitive bidding except for some 10%, which would be procured
through limited international bidding on account of technical considerations
and timeliness. It is expected that virtually all of the loan would be applied
to foreign exchange expenditures and that it would be disbursed within a period
of about three years.
xi.       With the assurances contained at the end of the report, the project
forms a suitable basis for a US$33 million Bank loan for 15 years, including
3-1/2 years of grace and at an interest of 8.5%.






I. INTRODUCTTON
1.01      A Bank mission visited Chile in July 1973 to prepare a technical
assistance project designed to help Chile build up a pipeline of future
development projects. This mission gave high priority to the development
needs of the copper mining sector and its findings were summarized in the
President's Report (No.P-1316-CH) which was circulated to the Executive
Directors in September 1973. Subsequently, a Bank-financed group of con-
sultants from the Canadian Noranda Mining Company visited Chile during
January 1974 to evaluate the impediments to increasing copper production in
view of the impact of this commodity on the country's balance of payments'.
Their findings indicated that Chile's copper production could increase substan-
tially provided an adequate supply of spare parts could be maintained but that
even continued production on such a higher level or any additional increases
in output would require substantial further investment. Also, although
management appeared capable of attending to the immediate operational needs of
the industry, there was doubt as to whether it had sufficient experience to
adequately determine investment priorities, undertake the preparation of
large investment projects and devise policies required to bring about an
optimum development of the sector.
1.02      The proposed project, which was worked out in the course of 1974
and 1975, has two prime objectives: first to help solve the urgent production
bottlenecks confronting the sector, leading to lower operating costs as well
as to increased output and foreign exchange earnings; and, second, to help
redress the institutional deficiencies within the sector. These deficiencies
are largely attributable to the sudden change of management of CODELCO, now
the largest copper producing company outside the U.S.S.R., after nationalization
in July 1971, as well as to the large exodus of professional staff that has
taken place since 1970. If Chile's copper industry is to develop efficiently
over the longer run these difficulties need to be overcome. The report
discusses in detail the copper sector in Chile, focussing particularly on its
present structure, the adequacy of its institutions and its contribution to
the country's economic development. It is hoped that this first Bank opera-
tion will lay the foundation for future Bank involvement in the sector, aimed
primarily at further improving production efficiency and consolidating the
planning and policy-making objectives of the present loan. The project was
appraised in stages from September 1974 through October 1975 by Messrs. Bosson
and Lorenz of the Industrial Projects Department, and Messrs. McCarthy and
Aguirre-Sacasa of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Programs Depart-
ment. A summary of technical terms used in the report is given in Annex 1.



-2-
II. THE COPPER SECTOR IN CHILE
A.   History and Development of the Sector
1.   Early Development
2.01      Copper production in Chile began on a significant scale in the early
part of the nineteenth century when it rose from a modest 9% of world produc-
tion, to 40% in the 1860's and to a high of 62% in 1876. After 1880, when
very high grade ore deposits had been depleted, Chile's production decreased
substantially, both in absolute and relative terms, and by 1900 represented
only 5% of world output. The sector's history is described in more detail in
Annex 2-1.
2.02      The invention of the flotation process, the development of an eco-
nomic process to recover copper from Chilean oxide ores and the arrival of
large amounts of capital from abroad--primarily through US enterprises-were
the principal factors which influenced the development of large-scale mining
operations at the beginning of the twentieth century. Production from these
large-scale operations increased Chilean copper output from 42,700 metric
tons (MT) in 1909 (5% of world production) to 130,000 MT in 1922 (14.3%) and
to 413,000 MT (18.2%) by 1937.
2.   Recent Development and Production Trends
2.03      Since the Second World War Chile's expansion has not been as dynamic
as that of the rest of the world. From 1951 to 1955 world production of copper
expanded at a rate of 3.3% per year, while Chilean production increased at only
2.6%. Output kept pace with world production from 1956-60 but has been trail-
ing since. Between 1960 and 1973 world production has increased by 50% from
4 million tons to approximately 6 million tons but Chilean production expanded
only from 550,000 to 750,000 NT, i.e. by 36%. During the earlier part of the
decade new investment was minimal as general uncertainty about the investment
climate prevailed; as a consequence output from the large copper producers,
the Gran Mineria, remained constant between 1960 and 1965.
2.04      Dissatisfaction with low levels of investment and Chile's declining
role in the world copper market came to a head during the early 1960's and
was instrumental in giving impetus to the political demand for increased
government control in determining future output and development of the sector.
The so-called Chileanization program of the Frei Administration (1964-1970)
represented the culmination of negotiations between the Chilean Government
and the foreign-owned companies and provided for (a) a doubling of copper
output to 1 million MT per year and a tripling of refining capacity, both by
1970; (b) substantial participation by the Government in copper production
and exploration; and (c) state-control of sales of Chilean copper.



-3-
2.05      The program, described in detail in Annex 2-7, envisaged bringing
into production two new mines--Exotica and Andina-- as well as substantial
expansion of existing operations. The total cost of this expansion is esti-
mated to have been US$760 million, of which US$650 million went to the Gran
Mineria. However, the full benefits of this program have yet to be realized.
Several unforeseen technical problems were encountered which resulted in
shortfalls from targeted production. Continuous labor unrest, as well as
damaging transport strikes in 1972 and 1973 were primarily responsible for
severely aggravating this situation. Production in 1973 from the Gran Mineria
reached 616,000 MT, barely 15% above the 1966 level and a major shortfall from
the targeted level of 880,000 MT. Production from the small and medium sectors
was the same in 1973 as in 1966. After the change in Government in September
1973 production increased substantially, due primarily to improved management,
the availability of spare parts and improved productivity. Output for 1974
from the Gran Mineria was 763,000 MT and an estimated 902,000 MT from the
sector as a whole.
B.   Structure of the Sector
2.06      As described in Annex 2-2, Chile's copper mining industry comprises
three groups of operations: (i) large-scale mining (Gran Mineria); (ii) med-
ium-scale mining (Mediana Mineria); and (iii) small-scale mining (Pequena
Mineria).
2.07      Large-scale copper mining according to Chilean law refers to those
companies in Chile that produce blister, fire-refined or electrolytic copper,
in quantities not less than 75,000 MT a year. Five mining companies currently
comprise the Gran Mineria del Cobre: Chuquicamata Mining Company, Exotica
Mining Company, Salvador Copper Company, El Teniente Mining Company, and Andina
Mining Company. These were owned by US companies until Chile acquired minority
or controlling interests under the Chileanization agreements negotiated under
the Frei Government. Subsequently, on July 11, 1971, the Chilean Congress un-
animously approved an amendment to the Constitution authorizing the nationaliza-
tion of mineral resources and related facilities, including the foreign-owned
companies of the Gran Mineria. The Corporacion del Cobre (CODELCO), the State
Copper Corporation, assumed ownership and management of the companies, thus
becoming the single largest producer of copper outside of the USSR. The con-
stitutional amendment also provided for the deduction of "excess profits" on
the basis of an assumed normal profit rate of 12%. As a result, the government
decided not to provide compensation to the foreign-owned companies, a decision
that was strongly but unsuccessfully appealed. The new Government which came
into power in September 1973 declared its intention to compensate the foreign-
owned companies and negotiations were successfully concluded with these firms
in October 1974 as described in Annex 2-1.
2.08      The Gran Mineria contributes approximately 80 to 85% of Chile's total
copper production. Two of these operations, Chuquicamata and El Teniente,
respectively the largest open-pit and underground copper mines in the world,



- 4 -
presently account for over 75% of Gran Mineria production. Two new mines,
Exotica and Andina, started operation in 1970/71; the former has yet to reach
full production capacity. The mining operations of the Gran Mineria are
highly mechanized and automated, and all except Andina are integrated from
mining through concentrating, smelting and refining.
2.09      The medium-scale and small-scale mining sector 1/ together account
for the remaining 15 to 20% of Chile's copper output. As described in Annex
2-2, there are presently five important producers of copper in the medium-scale
sector with one other operation yet to reach full production. These mining
operations, principally in the hands of private foreign-owned companies with
relatively minor state participation, have been generally profitable. In the
early 1960's a large amount of the sector's output was in the form of copper
concentrate or cement, but an increasing proportion is now produced either as
blister, or as refined copper.
2.10      The small-scale mining industry consists of small groups of indi-
viduals mining copper deposits located primarily in the northern regions of
Chile. Approximately 10,000 miners are working in the sector employing highly
labor-intensive methods. These producers are very dependent on the Empresa
Nacional Mineria (ENAM¢), which has been playing a dominant role in the de-
velopment of the sector by virtue of being the primary purchaser of the small
mines' output, processing their copper in its smelting and refining operations
at Ventanas and Paipote, and extending credit and technical assistance. The
State Development Corporation (CORFO) is also active in the mining sector but
has been primarily involved in fields other than copper.
2.11      The Ministry of Mines has official jurisdiction over the development
of the copper industry. It has had a traditionally weak role in the sector,
however, is extremely ill-equipped in terms of staff, and has not exerted much
influence over planning and policy-making decisions affecting the sector. The
Minister of Mines is Chairman of the Board of both CODELCO and ENAMI but most
decisions are taken by the executive management of these enterprises.
C.   The State-Owned Enterprises
1.   CODELCO
i.   Formation and Functions
2.12      The State Copper Corporation (CODELCO) grew out of the Departmento
del Cobre, which was established in 1955 as an autonomous institution within
the Central Bank and given broad powers to monitor sales of all Chilean copper
in foreign markets and supervise the regulations governing the use of domestic
inputs by the copper companies. In 1967 a new law converted this institution
into the State Copper Corporation, having much broader powers and participat-
ing in joint ventures with the foreign mining companies in the exploitation
of the copper mining operations of the Gran Mineria. The Corporation's
1/   For legal definitions of these mining activities see Annex 2-2.



- 5 -
formation and present legal statutes, organization, staffing, operations, and
financial position are described in Annex 2-3.
2.13      The capital of the five large nationalized companies is owned by
CODELCO and ENAMI in the proportion of 95% and 5% respectively, with CODELCO
playing the role of head office of an integrated company incorporating the
five properties. There is, however, substantial legal ambiguity over the
respective roles and authorities held by CODELCO on the one hand and the
operating companies on the other which has led to problems of coordination
and control. The Government has agreed to take, within a period of one year
after the date of signing of the loan, the necessary legislative steps to
transform CODELCO and the five large companies into a single fully-integrated
company, in which the functions of planning, administration, purchases and
sales shall be centralized but in which the management of each mine shall be
provided with sufficient autonomy to operate it as a separate profit center.
ii. Organization and Management
2.14      CODELCO is governed by a Board, an Executive Committee and an
Executive Vice-President. The Chairman of the Board is the Minister of Mines.
The Executive Vice-President is appointed by the President of the Republic
and is the legal representative and administrative head of CODELCO. In the past
there was little uniformity in the organizational structure of the producing
companies, each having inherited a different organization from its former
owners. This aggravated the problems of coordination between CODELCO and the
companies. CODELCO is aware of the shortcoming and has made some headway in
establishing standard procedures for investment planning, personnel adminis-
tration, production planning, inventory control, budgetary control and cost
accounting procedures.
2.15      CODELCO's senior management is competent with extensive technical
and executive experience in the mining industry in Chile. However, CODELCO
and its operations suffered severely following the nationalization of the
Gran Mineria as a result of the exodus of large numbers of foreign and national
engineers. This weakened the middle and lower management positions which are
now occupied by younger engineers. Nevertheless, operations have been main-
tained satisfactorily with significant production increases. This is a re-
flection of the high quality of the engineers emerging from the Chilean uni-
versity system. The average practical experience of the engineering staff
at the Chuquicamata, Exotica and Salvador operations is less than six years
and there is still a shortage of qualified mining engineers. The El Teniente
and Andina mines suffered relatively less on account of the greater experience
of the El Teniente staff, on the one hand, and the continued support of
engineering staff of the Cerro Corporation of New York for the Andina opera-
tion, on the other.
2.16      The shortage of professional experience is most acutely felt in pro-
duction planning and control, investment planning, project preparation and
evaluation, and research and development. Deficiencies also exist in financial
planning, cost accounting and internal controls. There is a notable lack of



- 6 -
cost consciousness in all the Corporation's operations. The inadequacies of
the present planning department are, in part, inherited from the practices
of the former owners of the mining operations. Investment planning and
project preparation were generally carried out by the parent companies at
the head office with little participation of the operating engineers and
managers in the field. The operating engineers have had virtually no train-
ing in planning and show a disinclination to become more involved in it.
The management is now preparing a medium to long-term development plan, but
has limited personnel with sufficient experience to prepare an investment
plan.
2.17      CODELCO is conscious of these deficiencies, and has taken steps to
rectify them. A study of CODELCO's organization and operating procedures
has been started. The technical assistance component of the loan (paragraph
4.06) aims, inter alia at: (i) strengthening CODELCO's financial and invest-
ment planning and control; (ii) improving its cost accounting, budgetary
and inventory control and (iii) training staff. CODELCO has agreed to
assign priority and adequate counterpart staff to reorganize its present
structure and administrative procedures.
iii. Financial Position
2.18      A detailed analysis of the financial performance of CODELCO is
difficult because of the incomplete financial records, the unreliability of
what information is available and certain policy measures - in particular,
the artificial rates of exchange imposed upon the exports of copper - which
had a major impact on the companies' financial position. The financial per-
formance of the companies began to deteriorate in 1971 and continued to do so
until 1973. This was attributable to large increases in wages and salaries,
serious transport strikes and work stoppages, and, most importantly to the
imposition of an artificial exchange rate. The upswing in copper prices ex-
perienced in 1973, as well as the substantial increase in output in the latter
part of the year, improved appreciably the overall financial position of the
companies', resulting in a US$65 million cash surplus after replenishing
stocks. With the significantly higher copper prices and increased output in
1974, CODELCO's position improved substantially, with operating cash surpluses
reaching US$500 million. However, under the terms of the settlement of the
expropriation issues, CODELCO was obligated to make US$29 million in debt
services payments, which together with income taxes of US$193 million, other
taxes totalling US$90 million and urgent investments of US$130 million, left
the company at the end of 1974 in a cash short situation, accentuated by the
exceedingly low copper prices prevailing at that time. A major factor con-
tributing to this position was the Government practice, until August 13, 1974,
of applying an artificially low exchange rate to revenues of CODELCO, in-
flating the local currency costs to CODELCO by US$384 miLlion. This was in
effect an implicit tax on CODELCO for the same amount.



Consolidated Balance Sheets for the Five Large Copper Companies /1
1971     1972     1973      1974
-------- US$ Million /2
Current Assets                       387       546      897       812
Fixed and Term Assets                965       992    1,029    1,154
Total Assets                  1,352    1,538    1,926    1,966
Current Liabilities                  242       471      513       356
Long-Term Debt                       467       421      388       192
Equity and Reserves                  643       646    1,025    1,418
Total                         1,352    1,538    1,926    1,966
Current Ratio                       1.6:1    1.2:1    1.7:1    2.3:1
Debt Equity Ratio                    42:58    39:61    28:72    12:88
/1   Does not include debt obligation to Cerro, Anaconda and Kennecott Corpora-
tions.
/2   Exchange rate used for 1971 US$1 = E 14.4; 1972 US$1 = E0 20.0;
1973 US$1 = E 340.0 and 1974 US$1 = E 1870.0.
With the recent settlement for compensation for nationalized properties, the
debt obligations of the companies rose by more than US$350 million.
2. ENAMI
i. Organization, Management and Staffing
2.19      The National Mining Company, ENAMI, was established in 1960 with
responsibility to administer activities relating to the development of Chile's
small-and medium-scale mining industries, as discussed in paragraph 2.10. It
is an autonomous state-owned enterprise whose legal representative is the
Executive Vice-President, the managerial head of the company. Its legal
statutes, organization staffing and financial position are described in
Annex 2-4.
2.20      The senior management of the company is in the hands of a seven-
member Board, with the Minister of Mines as Chairman. The company's Executive
Vice-President has had limited technical and financial experience in the mining
industry and is depending heavily on ENAMI's senior management, itself com-
petent and experienced but with little support staff. The technical staff
is both competent and experienced, however, particularly at the Ventanas
plant. Like the Gran Mineria, ENAMI suffered a loss of qualified engineering
staff in the wake of the nationalization of the large copper companies and
the political turmoil that followed. A further loss of staff was experienced
after September 1973, some of it to CODELCO, as a consequence of wage dispari-
ties between the two state-owned enterprises.



-8-
ii.   Operations
2.21      ENAMI has approximately twenty mineral purchasing agencies, eight
treatment plants, two smelting operations (one at Paipote and a modern con-
ventional smelter at Ventanas) and one refinery (also at Ventanas).  It also
holds equity in several medium-sized operations, e.g., Disputada which came
under increasing state control after 1971.
iii.   Financial Position
2.22      ENAMI's financial position has been weak since it was first estab-
lished in 1960. Although the company was expected to cover its operating
expenditures from the outset, it has continuously depended on fiscal contri-
butions to cover these costs. This has resulted in part from ENAMI's broader
functions of providing technical assistance and subsidized credit (recently
discontinued) to small mining producers but also because the major component
of the company's expenditures has been for the purchase of ore and concen-
trates from the small mining producers. Although the price paid to the small
producers is related to the London Metal Exchange (LME) copper price, the
treatment charge for processing that is deducted from this price has not in
the past been sufficient to cover ENAMI's processing costs. This has trans-
lated into excessive profits for the more efficient producers and subsidies
to inefficient small mine operators.
2.23      ENAMI's earning capacity deteriorated appreciably after 1971 for
essentially the same reason as previously (paragraph 2.18) described for
CODELCO. The large operating deficits were covered both by fiscal transfers
and a line of credit with the Central Bank, the former enabling the company
to maintain a sound capital structure as indicated below, but the latter,
being short-term debt, has placed the company in an unfavorable liquidity
position.
ENAMI - Balance Sheets
1971      1972       1973      1974-Z
(US$ million)-/
Current Assets             82         76        12         135
Fixed and Term Assets    110         135        41         137
Sub-Total            192       211         53        272
Current Liabilities        74        99         25          64
Long-Term Debt             34         36        16          30
Capital Reserves           84         76        12         178
Sub-Total            192       211         53         272
Current Ratio             1.1:1     0.8:1      0.5:1       2.1:1
Debt/Equity Ratio         29:71      32:68      56:44       14:86
1/   Exchange Rate used for 1971 US$1   E°14.4; 1972 US$1   E°20.0; 1973
US$1 -E0340.0 and 1974 US$1  E0 1870.0.
2/   In view of Chile's hyper inflation, ENAMI undertook a major revaluation
of its assets and liabilities in 1974 to more accurately reflect the
actual financial position of the enterprise.



- 9 -
2.24      On December 31, 1974, a new tariff policy was established aimed at
reducing markedly ENAMI's dependence on fiscal transfers. The main features
of the new policy are:
(a) the price paid to the small and medium miners for
their ores and concentrates is based on the average
price of copper (in cents per pound) for the pre-
vious month instead of the previous year, provided
this price fluctuates between 71 and 90 cents per
pound;
(b) when the average monthly price falls below 714 a
subsidy up to a maximum of 6i would be paid;
(c)  if the average price rises over 904, payments to
the producers would be limited to the 90 figure
with the "excess" being used to form a stabiliza-
tion fund designed to permit paying subsidies in
cases of the price again falling below 714; and
(d) in determining the purchase price of mineral ores
and concentrates, processing charges are to be
subtracted which will reflect the real costs of
smelting and refining in ENAMI'a plants.
Considerable progress has thus been made to improve ENANI's financial posi-
tion. Both the Government and ENAMI agreed to prior consultation between
the Borrower and the Bank in the event that the present tariff policy were
to be modified.
D.  The Contribution of the Sector to the Chilean Economy
1. Foreign Exchange
2.25      Copper is the dominant element in the growth of Chile's mining
sector and in her balance of payments situation, and the various contribu-
tions that it makes to Chile economy are described in more detail in Annex
2-5. It is the single most important contributor to exports, accounting for
approximately 75Z of total merchandise exports. Copper exports averaged
about 10% of CNP in the last two decades. This average has fluctuated
appreciably between 7 and 12%, primarily as a function of world copper prices.
2.26      Copper prices continue to be the major determinant of Chile's ex-
port earnings and balance of payments. A difference of one cent per pound
in the copper price at current output would be reflected in a difference of
foreign exchange earnings of about US$20 million per year. As copper out-
put increases, this effect will become more marked, affecting Chile's national
income, its import capacity and its ability to service its external debt.



- 10 -
2.   Tax Revenue
2.27      The copper sector has made an important contribution to government
revenue. Historically, it has been of two kinds: an explicit component
consisting of taxes, such as income taxes and surtaxes, paid directly to the
Government; and an implicit component consisting of revenue derived from an
overvalued exchange rate for copper transactions, a policy in practice equiva-
lent to an export tax. Fiscal revenues from the Gran Mineria amounted to
US$596 million in 1974 and provided about a fifth of government revenues
(estimated to be between 4 and 5% of GDP). The dramatic fall in copper prices
in late 1974 led to an aggravation of the fiscal situation leading the Govern-
ment to adopt a policy whereby all revenues of the Gran Mineria operations in
excess of the operating costs (estimated at the equivalent of 454/lb.), in-
cluding depreciation and financial charges, are retained by the Government.
This is essentially an interim measure until a more suitable system of taxa-
tion and dividend payout by the publicly owned mines can be formulated.
3.   Employment
2.28      In the early phases of copper mining development, direct labor
employment was relatively high in the industry. The total work force built
up from 25,000 during the early 1940's to a total of 46,000 by mid-1974;
32,000 in the large-scale mines; 4,000 in the medium-scale mines; and 10,000
in the small-scale sector. The medium-scale sector is becoming increasingly
capital intensive, whereas the small-scale sector is likely to remain labor
intensive and an important employer. Furthermore, Chile's copper sector,
through the major impact it has on the country's foreign exchange earnings
and tax revenues, has a very important indirect effect on total employment,
in other sectors throughout the country.
E.   Sector Performance
2.29      Performance of the Chilean copper sector has been characterized by
periods of sporadic bursts and falls far below what the resource base would
indicate as potential. In the past, no consistent copper policy has ever
been formulated, and historically the Government has been preoccupied with
maximizing the short-term foreign exchange and government revenue contribu-
tions ignoring the adverse effects of such actions on capital inflows. In-
come tax levels reached 80% of net income by 1954. As a consequence of the
high taxation and the differential exchange policy, local expenditures were
kept to a minimum since imports were substantially cheaper than the same
products acquired locally. These policies, which are discussed in detail in
Annex 2-6, tended to retard foreign investment in the mining sector in Chile,
with the foreign companies deciding to expand mines of lower grade ores in
the United States rather than increase output and investment in Chile. Fluc-
tuations in the world price of copper, general political uncertainty in the
country and high levels of inflation further impeded the Chilean Government
in its efforts to provide the climate for further substantial investments
during the 1950's and 1960's. Therefore, measured by almost any standard,



- 11 -
investment in the Gran Mineria has been far below what could have been reason-
ably expected. It was not until the Chileanization program of the Frei admi-
nistration that the Government eventually provided the framework for a more
continuous investment flow by the foreign companies. A discussion of past
investment in the sector is given in Annex 2-7.
2.30      Investment policy and the planning of future investment in the
nationalized copper industry is of great importance because of its impact
on Chilets overall economic development. Policy-making decisions affecting
the development of the copper sector need to be centralized in a coordinating
unit with an overall view not only of the sector but of Chile's development
needs. In view of the continued weak role of the Ministry of Mines, the
Government has agreed to create, within a year of this loan's signing a newly
structured copper agency responsible for coordination of planning and policy-
making in this sector.
F.   Investment Plans and Financing Needs of the Sector
2.31      Expansion of Chile's production in the longer term is both techni-
cally and financially feasible, as well as economically desirable. Chile
copper deposits are relatively high grade, extensive in terms of reserves,
and in a location to make them competitive. The major inhibiting factors
appear to be the present inadequacies in project preparation and the sector's
substantial demand for investment capital. Although the precise pattern of
future copper expansion as it relates to the balance between public and
private participation is not yet clear, it does appear that foreign private
capital will play an important role in future sector expansion.
2.32      Both CODELCO and ENAMI lack a clearly defined medium-term invi.-.6__
plan.  This makes it difficult to establish precise investment goals          Ukw."L 1
certainty. Nevertheless, it is possible to outline priority investment needs
to 1980 and make some estimates of the capital requirements in the entire
copper sector as described in Annex 2-8, and summarized below:
(a) Rehabilitation, rationalization and modernization of existing
mining, concentrating, smelting, refining and service facili-
ties. For instance, Chuquicamata, El Teniente, and Andina
contain more than 70% of Chile's copper reserves and will
continue to play a major role in the future expansion of
Chile's copper sector;
(b) Rehabilitation and expansion of smelting and refining capacity,
which at present forms a critical bottleneck in the sector;
(c) Development of new deposits, for which exploration and
evaluation programs are now being conducted with more or
less intensity. These include primarily the El Abra,
Andacollo and Los Pelambres deposits, but also the Mocha,
Cerro Colorado, Quebrada Blanca and Pampa Norte deposits.



- 12 -
2.33      The tentative investment program of US$890 million, of which about
90% will be needed to maintain existing production and to modernize facili-
ties, would as a result increase production to about 1,100,000 MT by 1980
at the earliest. This would require an annual investment of US$125 million
in 1976 increasing to approximately US$190 million in each of the remaining
years through 1980. Approximately 35% of the capital costs would be in
foreign exchange and 65% in local costs. While it can be expected that once
copper prices have again become firmer CODELCO will generate significant cash
surpluses, a large part of these earnings will be transferred to the Govern-
ment as taxes and dividends (as indicated in paragraph 2.27) to finance invest-
ment needs in sectors other than in copper. Hence, the availability of domes-
tic savings to finance the local currency cost of the copper sector investment
program will depend to a large extent on the inter-sector priorities yet to
be established by the Government.
2.34      Almost certainly, foreign capital will be required to cover the
foreign component of any future expansion of this sector. The extent to
which foreign private capital will be made available to finance the develop-
ment of the new deposits is not yet known. Indications to date are that, at
least in the short-term, not much foreign private equity will be invested in
the sector despite a liberal investment code. It appears that heavy reliance
will have to be placed on private and public debt financing. Apart from the
financing constraint, much improvement in project preparation and planning
will be required in order to implement such an investment program.
III. THE COPPER MARKET
3.01      The world market supply and demand for copper, its price structure
and the specific markets for Chile's mineral products are discussed in
Annexes 3-1 and 3-2. The following gives a brief description and the major
conclusions.
A. International Supply and Demand
3.02      Proven published copper reserves in countries other than centrally
planned economies are conservatively estimated at 272 million tons of copper
content -- more than 40 years supply at the present rate of mining. Some 60%
of these are located in the Western Hemisphere while the African Copper Belt
accounts for 25%. Six countries, USA, Canada, Chile, Zambia, Zaire and Peru
account for about 75% of the 1974 world mine production of 6 million tons,
while Chile alone accounted for 12% or 902,000 tons.
3.03      The world 1/ copper supply comes from two main sources, (a) from mine
production, and (b) from secondary or scrap recovery and is consumed in two
different forms, i.e., either as refined copper produced from mined ore or
scrap, or as scrap for direct use. Scrap plays an important role in the
1/   Excluding centrally planned economies.



- 13 -
world's copper sutpply. It averages about 40% of total copper production.
Scrap recovery has proven very price elastic and thus acts as supply-demand
balancing factor. World production of refined copper increased by an
average of 4.1% per annum over the 1960-73 period and reached 7.7 million
tons in 1974. Refining facilities, historically located in industrial
countries, were recently expanded primarily in Japan, Zambia, Zaire, Chile,
Peru and Australia.
3.04      Copper has important technical qualities such as corrosion resis-
tance and electric and thermal conductivity and is widely used for electri-
cal equipment and supplies, construction and housing, transportation,
appliances, etc. Consumption of copper is concentrated in the developed,
industrialized countries, with the USA, Canada, Western Europe and Japan
accounting for nearly 92% of the Western world consumption. During the
1960-73 period refined copper consumption increased steadily by 4.5% per
annum. In general, growth of copper consumption and industrial production
are closely correlated; however, during the sixties fast growing economies,
such as Japan and Brazil experienced over-proportionally high increase in
copper consumption, averaging 10%-20% per annum.
3.05      Net exports of copper as concentrate, blister and refined metal
have increased by 7% per annum since 1969, reaching 3.58 million tons in
1972. During that year, the major importing countries were the Federal
Republic of Germany (16%), the U.K. (14%), Belgium (12%), the USA (10%),
Japan (9%), while Zambia (20.5%), Chile (18.3%), Zaire (12.5%), and Canada
(9.2%), lead the copper exporting countries. In 1967 Zambia, Chile, Zaire
and Peru formed CIPEC 1/ an organization which coordinates the actions and
protects the interests of these copper exporting developing countries in an
oligopolistic market. The then four CIPEC countries accounted in 1972 for
37.5% of the world's copper mine production, 20.5% of refined copper produc-
tion and 57% of new copper exports. During the recent (November 1975) CIPEC
conference in Lima, Indonesia was accepted as a full member and Australia
and Papua/New Guinea as associates. As a consequence all CIPEC countries
together could account for about 70% of copper exports.
3.06      During the past decade, production and sales of copper were gen-
erally in line with one another; however, hedging against political events,
strikes, inflation, as well as speculation and build-up or drawdown of
stocks, have led periodically to supply/demand imbalances. There exists a
high degree of uncertainty about the future copper market. In the recent
past, most major copper producing countries have continued expanding their
capacity even while the economic situation in developed countries has been
slowing down copper consumption. The projected demand/supply for refined
copper is summarized in the following table:
1/ CIPEC - Conseil Intergouvernemental des Pays Exportateurs de Cuivre.



- 14 -
World    Refined Copper Supply/Derund Projections
(million tons of copper content)
1973  1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
-(actual)-
Supply
--Mine Production          6.0    6.2   5.4    5.2    5.8        6.7   7.0    7.3
--Refined Production       6.6    6.8   6.4    6.1    6.8        7.9   8.2    8.6
Demand
--Refined Consumption      6.8    6.2   5.9    6.4    7.0        7.9   8.2    8.5
Surplus (Deficit)         (0.2)   0.6   0.5   (0.3)  (0.2)    0.0   0.0    0.1
/1   Excluding centrally planned economies.
3.07      Based on the above table and discounting variations in scrap supply
and metal stocks copper will again be in a statistical oversupply position
by the early eighties. On the other hand, were copper consumption to recover
more rapidly and grow at the historical 4.2%, no oversupply would result.
B.   Copper Price Structure and Projections
3.08      Copper is traded at producer prices, the London Metal Exchange
(LME), and the Commodity Exchange (COMEX) in New York.  The bulk of copper's
international trade, including Chile's exports, are sold at LME prices,
although less than 10% of copper sales are actually delivered from LNE
stocks.
3.09      Copper is characterized by its low short-term elasticities of
demand and supply which create huge and volatile changes in price. Since
1965, copper prices have not fallen below the US$0.45/lb level, but reached
a peak of US$1.52/lb (in current terms) in April 1974, caused by non-industry
speculations following the oil crises and hedging against the US miners'
strike, only to drop to less than US$0.55/lb in early 1975 as stocks were
released and industrial production growth slowed down.
3.10      With the dramatic drop in copper prices, the CIPEC countries in
November 1974 called for action to halt the decline in prices, and for the
first time since the establishment of CIPEC, agreed to temporarily reduce
their copper exports by 10%. It was hoped that this would halt the price
drop at about 604/lb. A decrease in price below this level would not only
seriously affect the trade balance of these countries, but also the viability
of some of the producers. The action has not, however, had any significant
impact on the market and a further cut-back of 5% was instituted in April 1975,
this time calling for a 15% production cut-back as well. A major factor



- 15 -
affecting this cyclical decline in price was the Japanese copper stocks
(200,000 tons) overhanging the market, which are large in comparison to the
about 340,000 tons which are estimated as being withheld from the market by
the CIPEC action up to March 1976. The action may, however, advance somewhat
the cyclical upswing, as prices will eventually move again to more normal levels
dictated by production costs and draw down of inventories. However, substan-
tive price improvement is not likely to develop before the second half of
1976. For that year (1976) the average copper price is estimated at 674/lb
in current terms as compared to about 564/lb in 1975. Each of the CIPEC
countries can, over the short-term, effectively use the export cut-backs to
their advantage, as is being done by Chile, by moving operations to lower
grade areas of the mines, increasing mine development activity and waste
removal, shutting down processing lines to carry out modifications leading
to cost reductions, and catching up on the backlog of maintenance work.
3.11      From 1929 through early 1974, copper prices followed a long-term
upward trend. Expressed in 1975 dollars, they rose from an average level of
US$0.54/lb. during the 1929-38 decade to US$0.69/lb. during the 1949-58
decade and to US$0.82/lb. between 1959 and 1968. The 1969-73 average was
US$0.97/lb. Prices increased to US$1.05/lb. in 1974 then fell sharply to
below US$0.60/lb in 1975.  Price projections for copper, taking into account
the prevailing uncertainties, cannot be more than an intelligent guess. In
the short-term, i.e., for 1976, it is expected that copper prices will .tabi-
lize between US$0.60/lb and US$0.70/lb (current prices) as releases of con-
sumer stockpiles continue and the depressed economic growth in developed
countries cannot be counterbalanced by accelerated industrialization of less
developed nations.   In the medium run, as mentioned in paragraph 3.07, there
is the possiblity of a slight oversupply of refined copper by 1980. Never-
theless, prices are expected to increase to between 70-804/lb in 1977-80 (in
real 1975 terms).
C.   Marketing Chilean Copper
1.   Sales Organization
3.12      CODELCO is responsible for the sale of all copper produced by the
Gran Mineria and ENAMI for the copper produced by the medium and small mines.
Some of the larger private mines may make direct sales, but each contract
requires the prior approval of CODELCO.
2.   Sales Procedures
3.13      Approximately 80-85% of the refined and blister copper is sold
through annual contracts. These contracts cover: the type of copper the
client will buy, the quantities to be delivered monthly and for the year,
the procedure for determining prices, the place of delivery, the form and
currency of payment, as well as other details of lesser importance. The
remainder (15-20%) of the copper is traded during the year as spot sales.
Copper concentrates are sold on annual contracts. The minor minerals such
as silver, molybdenite and selenium are sold as spot sales.



- 16 -
3.   Price Policy
3.14      Chile, like the majority of world copper producers except the USA,
uses the daily quotations on the LME in determining the price of copper sold
to its clients. The quotations is the official seller's cash price for bars
of electrolytic copper.
4.   Destination of Sales
3.15      Chile sells its copper on a wide geographic basis, the distribution
varying each year. In 1974 the most important markets were: Japan (16%);
Federal Republic of Germany (15%); UK (12%); USA (10%); Italy (9%); and
People's Republic of China (6%).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Background
4.01      Following several years of inadequate reinvestment the copper
sector in 1973 reached a position where urgent capital expenditures were
required to secure existing capacity, replace obsolete equipment and plants
to reduce production costs, increase the efficiency of operations to maintain
the sector's competitive position in the world market and diversify produc-
tion. CODELCO put together a program of urgent and high priority investments,
with a total estimated cost of about US$890 million. ENAMI also prepared a
priority investment program with a total estimated cost of about US$100
million. From discussions with the managements of CODELCO and ENAMI, and a
review of the respective programs, five sub-projects, with a total cost of
about US$77 million, were selected for Bank financing, including a signifi-
cant technical assistance component. At the request of the Government, it
was agreed that the subprojects would reflect the priority needs of the sector
as a whole and not solely those of the sector's major entity, CODELCO. Selec-
tion of these sub-projects was made on the basis of: the need to maintain
existing capacity; their cost saving potential; diversification and improve-
ment of operations; high return on investment; the status of project prepara-
tion; speed of execution; suitability for the Bank's procurement requirements;
and impact on foreign exchange earnings.
B. Description
4.02      The project includes four distinctly separate sub-projects with
four principal objectives: rehabilitation, elimination of production bottle-
necks, recovery of useful by-product material and technical assistance. These
sub-projects, which are self contained and independent of the rest of the invest-
ment programs, are described in Annex 4 and briefly summarized below:



- 17 -
Bank Contribution
CODELCO Projects                                         Million US$
(a)  Underground crushing station at El Teniente
(Mina Futura) to preserve output;                      5.66
(b) Rehabilitation of Barquito Power Plant for
supplying El Salvador Mine and Smelter Facilities; 12.50
(c) Construction of Selenium Recovery Plant to process
Chuquimata and El Salvador Anode Slimes; and           0.49
(d)  Technical Assistance                                    3.97
Contingencies                                          6.92
Sub-total CODELCO                                29.54
ENAJ4I Projects
(e) Replacement of equipment components for smelting
and refining operations at Ventanas and Paipote;
and                                                    2.42
(f)  Technical Assistance                                   0.33
Contingencies                                          0.71
Sub-total ENAMI                                   3.46
Grand Total                                      33.00
1.   CODELCO Projects
4.03      The introduction of a primary underground crusher and related
infrastructure system has become an absolute necessity at the El Teniente
mine if the mine is to maintain its present level of refined copper produc-
tion of 250,000 tons per year, which is otherwise projected to decrease by
at least 30% by 1980. Over a period of more than 70 years, the El Teniente
mine had produced from the secondary enriched zone using highly efficient
block caving techniques. Although it had been evident for some time that
the mine would have to produce eventually from the underlaying primary ore
zone, a point which now is about to be reached, no comprehensive testing of
caving and/or breakage pattern of the primary rock had been conducted to
adequately determine ore handling characteristics. Primary rock turned out
to be considerably more compact than expected, leading on average to three
times larger blocks which cannot be accommodated by the existing transporta-
tion infrastructure without costly secondary blasting. This is expressed
in a drop of productivity from 250 tons per man shift to 25 tons in the



- 18 -
primary zone, and would, in the absence of action to introduce the under-
ground crushing system, increasingly translate into both costlier mining and
loss of production as the proportion of output from the primary zone goes
up. Besides the crusher station itself the sub-project consists of a chute
system before and after crushing.
4.04      The rehabilitation of CODELCO's Barguito power plant, which supplies
the El Salvador mining, smelting and refining facilities, involves completing
the replacement of the plant's old, dilapidated, high cost and unreliable
steam and diesel generating units by installing new steam generating units
of a capacity of 15-20 MW. A waste heat recovery boiler for the plant's
existing new gas turbine and a fuel preparation plant to permit the gas
turbine to burn heavy fuel oil will be added. The installation of this
equipment would eliminate the danger of a plant shutdown due to power failure,
and the consequent loss of production, as well as result in considerable fuel
and maintenance cost savings. At the same time the sub-project allows (through
the added power availability) a moderate expansion of the El Salvador mine's
production of fine copper to 100,000 tons per year that forms part of CODELCO's
1967 investment program. The El Salvador mine, as is the case with the two
other major mines in the north (Chuquimata and Exotica) has to be self-suffi-
cient in power since the system of the public power companies does not service
the region.
4.05      Construction of a selenium recovery plant at Chuquimata aims at
the recovery of this metal from the anode slimes in the Chuquimata copper
refineries. The ore of both of these mines contains small quantities of
selenium (approximately 1 part in 15,000 parts of copper), which during
treatment ends up in the anode slimes of the copper refineries. These slimes
are now treated in the Noble Metals Plant at Chuquicamata to recover gold
and silver. The sub-project will treat the tailings of the Noble Plant and
recover the selenium by leaching and precipitation, resulting in a powdered
product of commercial quality (99.5% selenium). While substantial testing
with the assistance of two outside experts has been completed, the plant
will be conservatively constructed in two stages. First a 9-ton/year pilot
plant will be installed subsequently to be upgraded to a 35-ton/year commer-
cial plant. The plant will have a capacity to treat 700 tons/year of anode
slimes.
4.06      As discussed earlier, CODELCO requires considerable strengthening
in order to: (i) make up for the loss of large numbers of engineers follow-
ing nationalization; (ii) replace the services originally provided by the
ing nationalization; (ii) replace the services originally provided by the
former owners; and, importantly, (iii) consolidate the CODELCO Group into
a fully integrated company. To meet these objectives a substantial technical
assistance program is proposed with the following components:
(i) Planning systems, Project Preparation and Evaluation:
- Assistance in project identification, preparation and
evaluation. Formulation of a definitive 5-year investment
program.



- 19 -
(ii) Specific Studies to assist with Planning and consisting of
the preparation of:
- A comprehensive smelting and refining development
strategy and investment program for CODELCO and
Chile's copper sector as a whole.
- A long-term mining plan for the Teniente mine, taking
into account the difficult mining conditions being
encountered with the present methods as production
moves into harder rock.
- A long-term mining plan for the Chuquicamata mine,
to improve pit efficiency, and make provision for
future expansions.                            A-.
(iii) Specific Experts:
- Employment on a retainer basis of foreign experts,
most notably metallurgists, for trouble shooting.
(iv) Organization and Structuring the CODELCO Group:
- Employment of foreign experts to supplement a study
for revamping, and streamlining the organization
structure of CODELCO and its subsidiaries with a view
to consolidating CODELCO into a fully integrated
company.
(v) Internal Procedures:
- Coupled with the reorganization is the need to revise
the internal corporate procedures, including cost
accounting, inventory control, data collection, data
processing, information systems and production and
budgetary control.
4.07      Staffing requirements for both Chilean staff and foreign experts
are estimated as follows:



- 20 -
Staff Requirements for Technical Assistance to CODELCO
(in man years)
Chilean Staff       Foreign Experts
(i)  Planning Systems                     30                    20
(ii)  Specific Studies:
- Smelter Strategy                  2                     2
- El Teniente Mine Plan            20                     5
- Chuquicamata Mine Plan            5                     3
(iii)  Specific Experts                      -                     4
(iv)  Organization                          5                     5
(v)  Internal Procedures                  40                    18
Total                          102                   57
2.   ENAMI Projects
4.08      This sub-project consists of the replacement of antiquated or
obsolete equipment components at ENAMI's Ventanas and Paipote smelters -
including a cathode copper starter sheet machine for Ventanas and a blister
copper caster for Paipote - and the modification of both smelters' burners
to enable them to operate on Chilean coal as well as petroleum products.
Replacement of the equipment is needed to avert breakdowns and production
losses and to lower maintenance costs; moreover, it is urgent since spare
parts for the more than 25-year-old equipment are now hard to find. Modifi-
cations of the burners will give the smelters flexibility and permit them to
use the cheapest available fuel at any one time. As a consequence operating
costs will be reduced and increase operating reliability.
4.09      To assist ENANI with strengthening its management and operations,
a technical assistance component has been included as well. The objectives
of this assistance will be to (i) improve present planning and project prepa-
ration procedures; (ii) conduct specific technical and economic feasibility
studies; and (iii) assist ENAMI diversify its mineral production. ENAMI has
agreed to provide the necessary counterpart funds and staff to successfully
carry out this technical assistance.
C. Ecology
4.10      Throughout the copper sector the work conditions and level of safety
consciousness are generally good; however, some of the existing plants do
require improvement and the companies are cognizant of this. The four sub-
projects, however, all have adequate provisions for environmental protection.
Furthermore, the El Teniente underground crushing plant and the Ventanas and
Paipote smelting and refining equipment process existing materials streams
without producing additional effluents. The same is true for the Barquito
power plant improvement project and the Chuquicamata Selenium recovery plant
which in effect recovers part of the selenium metal from dust and wash solu-
tions.



- 21 -
D.   Organization and Management
4.11      Each of the projects will come under the direction of the engineering
and,operating staff of the individual operating companies. In all the projects,
foreign experts or consultants will assist in project implementation. For the
Barquito power plant, McLellan and Partners, a UK firm, are primarily respon-
sible for engineering design, procurement and construction supervision. Local
contractors will undertake the civil works of the power plant. The design
for the underground crushing station at El Teniente will be done by the
company's engineering staff who will supervise the construction phase. Two
foreign experts have been retained to assist company engineering staff for
the selenium plant. In view of the available expertise in CODELCO and ENAMI,
the arrangements for implementing the sub-projects are satisfactory.
4.12      The technical assistance programs will be administered through
detailed terms of reference and reporting requirements agreeable to the Bank.
The concept of assigning teams made up of foreign and counterpart staff under
the direction of a project manager will be used. The teams will report to
senior management. These arrangements are considered satisfactory.
E.   Implementation Schedule
4.13      The sub-projects financed by the Bank will be executed within about
three years from early 1976 through early 1979. Project implementation
schedules are as follows:
Project Status October 1975   Completion Date
(a) El Teniente underground
crushing plant               Design engineering underway   July 1978
(b)  Barquito power plant           Preliminary consultants
study completed              Early 1979
(c)  Chuquicamata selenium plant   Preliminary design completed  July 1978
(d) CODELCO - Technical
Assistance                   Program to be initiated         September 1978
(e) Ventanas/Paipote
modernization                Design engineering underway   June 1978
(f)  ENAMI - Technical Assistance  Program to be initiated          November 1978
4.14      These timetables are considered reasonable, particularly because
of the urgency attached to the projects, and the steps already taken to get
them underway. Except for the Barquito power plant and the technical assist-
ance component, all projects have advanced to the stage of detailed design
engineering.
F.   Project Costs
4.15      The project's costs, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at
US$76.8 million. Its foreign exchange component is about US$33 million or
43% of net project costs. Over and above these amounts, an estimated US$2
million in interest during construction will be incurred by CODELCO and ENAMI
in connection with their respective sub-projects.



- 22 -
4.16      Estimated costs of the projects are detailed in Annex 4 and
summarized below:
Summary Capital Costs
(in US$1,000)
% of
Local   Foreign    Total   Base Cost
CODELCO Projects
(a)  El Teniente Crusher System          25,570      5,660    31,230       58.0
(b)  Barquito Power Plant                 2,400    12,500    14,900        27.7
(c)  Chuquicamata Selenium Plant            979        486      1,465       2.7
(d)  Technical Assistance                 2,290      3,970      6,260       11.6
Total Bases Costs                 31,239    22,616    53,855       100.0
Physical Contingencies               3,497      2,916      6,413       11.9
Price Escalation                     5,930      4,007     9,937       18.5
Working Capital                      2200-                 2,200       4.1
Sub-Project Cost                  42,866    29,539    72,405       134.5
Interest during Construction             -      2,010     2,010
Financing Required - CODELCO        42,866    31,549    74,415
ENANI Projects
(e)  Ventanas/Paipote Modernization
- Ventanas/Paipote Burners             270      1,143      1,413      41.1
- Paipote Blister Caster               325        597        922      26.8
- Ventanas Starter Sheet                40        677        717      20.8
Sub-Total                            635      2,417     3,052       88.7
(f)  Technical Assistance                    60        330        390      11.3
Total Base Cost                      695      2,747     3,442      100.0
Physical Contingencies                  70        277        347      10.1
Price Escalation                       136        433       569       16.5
Sub-Project Cost                     901      3,457     4,358      127.0
Interest during Construction             -         20        20
Financing Required - ENANI             901      3,477     4,378
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 43,767    32,996    76,763
Total Finance Requirements          43,767    35,026    78,793



- 23 -
4.17      These costs are based on late 1975 estimates.  They include an
overall physical contingency of 11.8% of base costs and vary somewhat from
sub-project to sub-project depending on the firmness of the estimate on hand
and the stage design engineering has reached. Furthermore, a provision for
price escalation 1/ of 16.4% of base cost plus physical contingencies has
been made, reflecting a rather short project implementation time and the
fact that orders for equipment are about to be placed. All cost estimates
have been made in US$ equivalent on the assumption that the rapid internal
inflation rate will be matched by frequent adjustments to the exchange rate.
The technical assistance costs are estimated by the Bank using known consul-
tant charges prevailing in late 1975, plus 10% contingency and 10% per year
price escalation allowances. As such the cost estimates are considered
reasonable.
G.   Financing Plan
4.18      The sub-projects will be financed as follows:
Financing Plan
Local         Foreign
Currency       Currency         Total
__S__--- uS$ Million ------------
CODELCO Cash Generation                   42.87          2.01           44.88
ENAMI Funds or Government
Contributions                           0.90           0.02            0.92
IBRD Loan for:
CODELCO Sub-projects                        -        24.55            24.55
CODELCO Technical Assistance                -         4.99             4.99
ENAMI Sub-projects                          -          3.06            3.06
ENAMI Technical Assistance                  -          0.40            0.40
Sub-Total IBRD Loan                      -        33.00            33.00
Total                               43.77         35.03            78.80
4.19      The Bank funds will cover 42% of total estimated financing require-
ments and 92% of the foreign exchange components. The remaining costs of the
sub-projects will be financed by CODELCO and ENAMI, which are expected to
have sufficient earnings to do so from their cash flows. Nevertheless, agree-
ment was obtained from CODELCO and ENAMI and backed up by the Government that
1/ Assuming Price escalation as follows:
1976      1977       1978
Equipment             12%        10%         8%
Civil Works           16%        14%        12%



- 24 -
all the necessary local and foreign currency finance, other than the Bank
loan, will be made available. The Government has also agreed to provide any
additional funds that might be required for the timely completion of the
project.
4.20      The Bank loan will be made to the Government of Chile, for a period
of 15 years including 3-1/2 years of grace at an interest rate of 8.5%. The
proceeds of the loan will be on-lent separately to CODELCO and ENAMI on
identical terms except at an interest of 10%. The foreign exchange risk
will be borne by the two companies.
H.   Procurement, Allocation of Bank Loan and Disbursement
4.21      Items to be financed by the Bank loan will be procured by inter-
national competitive bidding procedures following Bank Guidelines. For
some of the smaller "standardized" items, representing about 10% of the loan,
bids will be sought from suppliers in at least three Bank member countries,
including Switzerland. Apart from the technical assistance, of which the
Bank loan would cover the foreign exchange component only, all other Bank
funds will be used for financing of equipment and materials, most of them
imported. For purposes of bid comparison the Bank's preferential rules will
be applicable to local and regional suppliers. The consultants and experts
for the technical assistance component will be recruited internationally.
Evaluation will be made on the basis of technical and professional competence
with prices to be negotiated subsequently.
4.22      Disbursement of the Bank loan is expected to be as follows:
Disbursement of Bank Loan
1976      1977        1978    1979
---- (in US$ million) ---
Incremental Disbursement      2.0       15.0       13.0      3.0
Cumulative Disbursement       2.0       17.0       30.0    33.0
Disbursements will be made against 100% of the cif value of imported equip-
ment or the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment following in-
ternational competitive bidding, and the foreign exchange component of the
technical assistance. Any unused funds will be cancelled.
I.   Financial Analysis of the Project
4.23      The financial rates of return of individual sub-projects are ex-
pected to range from 35 to over 50%; those for three-of-them are calculated in
Annex 4 together with the assumptions made and are summarized below:



- 25 -
Discounted Cash Flow (DCF)
Rate of Return (Real Terms)
El Teniente Crusher System                           greater than 50%
Barquito Power I'lant
- Fuel price levels of 1975                                      35%
- Half of expected fuel savings                                  20%
Chuquicamata Selenium Plant
- Existing selenium price levels                                 35%
- Reduction of selenium price by 50%                              8%
These returns are based upon conservative operating cost and pricing assump-
tions and the sensitivity analyses show that even with drastic reductions in
benefits or sales prices returns would still be satisfactory.
4.24      The expected benefits from the replacement of equipment components
for the Ventanas and Paipote smelter are difficult to quantify in terms of
DCF rate of return. The equipment to be replaced is clearly old and in-
creasingly obsolete leading to frequent plant break downs. Since there is
a smelter capacity shortage in Chile, frequent unavailability of the equip-
ment items translates into a cost to the economy. The conversion of the
diesel fuel burners into coal burning units, using local coal, wiln generate
annual foreign currency savings in the neighborhood of US$1.3 million which
compares to the conversion cost of a total of about US$1.8 million.
4.25      The financial benefits to be derived from the technical assistance
program are expected to be very significant. Improved planning and project
evaluation will result in a better selection of projects, earlier project
implementation and improved financial planning, and hence, more efficient
expenditures of capital costs and cost savings. The smelter and refinery
study could result in very large savings in terms of future investment and
operating costs. The El Teniente mining plan has to be undertaken if the
mine is to continue to operate at its present level. The Chuquicamata mining
plan is similarly a prerequisite to future expansion. The specific experts,
by assisting in eliminating processing bottlenecks and operating problems,
are expected to bring about substantial cost savings as should CODELCO's
reorganization and improvement of its internal procedures.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF THE COMPANIES
A.   CODELCO
1.   Financial Position
5.01      As shown in Annex 2-3 and summarized below the operating cash sur-
plus in 1974 was a vast improvement over the previous years.



- 26 -
Consolidated Cash Flow Statements for the Five
Large Companies (Constant 1976 Prices)
------------ (in US$ million)
-(Actual)--    -----------(Forecast)-------
1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Revenue                   1,762  1,309  1,162  1,272  1,182  1,182  1,137
Operating Costs           1,261    875    875    953    885    881    876
Income Taxes                193    103      67      79     73      73     72
Operating Surplus           308    433    220    240    224    228    189
Debt Servicing              199    312    110    110    110    100    100
Available for Investments
or Government Dividends   109    121    110    130    114    128         89
Debt Service Coverage       1.5    1.4    2.0    2.2    2.0    2.3    1.9
(times)
Despite the large drop in prices in the latter part of 1974, a severe cash
stringency experienced in early 1975 and the expected continuation of rela-
tively low prices during the remainder of the 1970's, the cash surplus
generated by CODELCO is expected to remain substantial. The drop in 1975
costs over those of 1974 is primarily the result of the abolition of the
artificial exchange rate which significantly increased local costs in US
dollar terms. Implementation of the proposed rehabilitation program, includ-
ing the Bank financed sub-projects, is expected to help maintain operating
costs at the present low level.
5.02      In 1974 and 1975 the debt service requirements were high in part due to
expropriation payments. Thereafter, debt service coverage of about two times
and the low existing debt/equity ratio place CODELCO in a favorable position
for raising additional debt. The total investment program through 1980 as
presently envisaged could be financed by debt without increasing the debt/
equity ratio above 50:50, even assuming all cash surpluses were paid out as
dividends to the Government. In any case CODELCO's debt service arising from
the proceeds of the Bank loan is small and expected to be less than 3% of its
total debt service. Furthermore, the Bank loan portion to CODELCO is equivalent
to the change in the Corporation's revenoe caused by a change in the copper
price of 1-1/2 U/lb.
2.   Auditing
5.03      By law CODELCO is subject to audit by the Superintendency of Banks,
but otherwise has no formal auditing requirements. However, CODELCO has
appointed Price Waterhouse to conduct the audit of its 1974 accounts. CODELCO
agreed to either continue this contract or engage other auditors acceptable to
the Bank to carry out annual audits of CODELCO's accounts.



- 27 -
B.   ENAMI
1.   Financial Position
5.04      As mentioned in paragraph  2.22, ENAMI has in the past operated with
significant losses. However, since deficits have been covered by Government
transfers a favorable financial position has been maintained as indicated
by the debt/equity ratio of 18:82 for the end of 1974. On the other hand,
the company had a negative working capital position, due primarily to the
large line of credit extended by the Central Bank in the period 1971-73.
Since much of this amount was the result of the artificial exchange rates
imposed upon copper exports, the Government agreed to cancel this debt thus
placing ENAMI again in a satisfactory liquidity position.
5.05      Even more importantly, the Government has decided to operate ENAMI
as an autonomous and financially viable entity and has already taken steps
to increase operational efficiency, reduce costs, and establish a more realistic
level for the price of the ores and concentrates ENAMI purchases from the
small mines for further processing. The Government has agreed to maintain
ENAMI as a financially viable entity and to continue making available to
ENAMI such funds as needed to meet all its obligations, including debt
service. The part of the Bank loan to be on-lent to ENAMI is US$3.46 mil-
lion or 10% of the total Bank loan.
2.   Auditing
5.06      By law ENAMI is subject to audit by the Government auditor
(Controloria de la Republica), which conducts only superficial audits of
ENANI. Recently, ENAMI contracted Price Waterhouse to review their accoumt-
ing procedures and conduct an audit. ENAMI agreed to either continue this
contract or engage other auditors acceptable to the Bank to annually audit
ENAMI's accounts.
VI. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION FOR THE PROJECT
A.   Benefits to the Economy
6.01      The copper sector plays a major role in the Chilean economy and
accounted in 1974 for approximately 10% of GDP, 80% of foreign exchange
earnings and 20% of tax revenues. Its continued competitiveness on the world
market is, therefore, of paramount importance to the country. The sector has
suffered a prolonged period of inadequate reinvestment, a deterioration of
operations and a radical change in ownership and management and therefore
urgently needs rationalization and some technical inputs. The project is
directed, as discussed in Chapter IV, to rationalizing the sector, improving
operational efficiency, reducing costs and improving the absorptive capacity
for future investment and expansion. The copper sector will continue to play
a dominant role in Chile's development and act as catalyst for the country's



- 28 -
economic growth. Chile has good deposits in favorable locations, giving it
some comparative advantages over other suppliers. The project is directed
at helping to maintain this advantage.
B.   Foreign Exchange Effect
6.02      The foreign exchange benefits from the project have to be measured
in terms of maintenance of productive capacity as compared with foreseeable
losses in the absence of the project. Whilst the amount of loss of foreign
exchange benefits is difficult to quantify for the Ventanas/Paipote smelting
equipment items, the proposed investment in El Teniente will help prevent
a possible US$26 million reduction in foreign exchange earnings in 1978. Net
savings in 1979 will amount to US$77 million and are expected to be in excess
of US$100 million by 1980 and thereafter. In addition, the necessary invest-
ments in the Barquito power plant will not only prevent unscheduled stoppages,
which could result in substantial production losses at the El Salvador mining and
smelting complex, but will lead to foreign exchange savings in fuel consumption
of US$2.8 million in 1978 and US$5.6 million per year by 1980.
C.   Employment Effect
6.03      The project will provide very little additional direct employment.
However, since at present, the companies' labor force is larger than needed
due primarily to a significant build-up during 1971 and 1973, the project will
allow better deployment of the labor force. One very important benefit of
the project will be the upgrading through the technical assistance component
of the skill levels of the professional staff as well as that of lower and
middle management. By increasing foreign exchange earnings and tax revenues,
the project is expected to have an important bearing on employment in Chile's
other economic sectors.
D.  Economic Rate of Return
6.04      The economic rates of return of the sub-projects will be only mar-
ginally above the high financial returns since transfer payments to the
Government, apart from income taxes, are not significant and more than 95%
of the copper will be exported at world market prices. As mentioned pre-
viously, these are unusually high returns and demonstrate the particular
benefits that the sub-projects are expected to create.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      The Loan Agreement and Project Agreements will record the follow-
ing major agreements and assurances.
1.  CODELCO will:
a.   Review its organization structure, administrative procedures,
planning and project evaluation functions, with a view toward



- 29 -
strengthening management and improving coordination, as
well as its cost accounting systems and inventory and
budgeting control systems (para 2.17).
b.   Provide sufficient funds to complete each of its sub-
projects (para 4.19).
c.   Have its accounts audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank (para 5.03).
2. ENAMI will:
a.   Consult the Bank in the event that the present tariff
policy, relating to the purchases of ores and concen-
trates from the small and medium miners, were to be
modified (para 2.24).
b.   Make available sufficient funds to complete each of its
sub-projects (para 4.19).
c.   Have their accounts audited by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank (para 5.06).
a3.   The Government will:
a.   Within a period of one year after signing the loan,
take the necessary legislative steps to transform
CODELCO and its five large companies into a single
integrated corporation, with centralization of the
functions of planning, sales, procurement and ad-
ministration, but will at the same time provide the
management of each mine with sufficient autonomy to
operate it as a separate project center (para 2.13).
b.   Establish within one year, a suitable mechanism to
coordinate and control sector planning and policy-
making (para 2.30).
c.   Insure that CODELCO and ENAMI have sufficient funds
available to them to complete each sub-project and
technical assistance program to be financed by the
Bank loan (para 4.19).
d.   Provide such financial assistance as necessary to
maintain ENANE as a financially viable entity
(para 5.04 and 5.05).



- 30 -
7.02      With these assurances, the project forms a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$33 million of which US$29.54 million would be made available
to CODELCO and US$3.46 million to ENAEI.
Industrial Projects Department
December 1975



ANNEX 1
Page 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS
CONCENTRATOR: A plant which separates ore into economically valuable
products (concentrates) and rejects (tailings). Usually
refers to a plant which utilizes the physical properties
of the ore magnetism, specific gravity.
ELECTROSTATIC PRECIPITATION: Air or gases are drawn through a high
potential direct current field causing the dust particles
to acquire an electrical charge, and deposit themselves
on the collecting surface (the anode). One of the more
efficient dust collection methods.
ELECTRO-WINNING: Recovery of a metal by means of electrochemical
processes. The copper in an acidified copper sulphate
solution is deposited on the cathode of an electrolyti^
bath. The product, CATHODE COPPER, requires melting in
a furnace to be marketable as electrolytic copper.
FLOTATION:     A method of separation in which a froth created in water
is used, with a variety of reagents, to float finely ground
minerals whereas other minerals sink.
HYDRO-METALLURGY: The treatment of ores or concentrates by dissolution
of some component and its subsequent recovery from the
solution.
LEACHING:      The extraction of a soluble metallic compound from an ore
or concentrate by selectively dissolving in a suitable
solvent, such as water or sulphuric acid. The solvent is
usually recovered by precipitation of the metal or metals.
MOLYBDENITE:   A black, platy disulfide of Molybdenum, MoS2, the most
common ore of Molybdenum. Molybdenum is a silvery-white,
very hard metallic element in the chromium group. Its
physical properties are similar to those of iron and
its chemical properties are similar to those of a non-
metal. Used for electrodes of mercury-vapor lamps, as
wire for winding electrical resistance furnaces and in
steel alloys. As an alloying agent it increases
hardness and toughness and raises strength.
ORE:           A naturally occurring mineral, or minerals, which can be
mined at a time, at a place, and at a benefit.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
REFINING:       The purification of crude metallic products.  In copper,
represents the final stage in the processing to relatively
pure metal. Usually accomplished by electro or fire
methods. Product is usually called ELECTROLYTIC OR FIRE
REFINED COPPER, respectively.
REVERBERATORY FURNACE: A furnace, with a shallow hearth, having a roof
that deflects the flame and radiates heat on the surface
of the charge.
ROASTING:       Heating an ore or concentrate to effect some chemical
change that will facilitate smelting. For sulphide ores,
the roasting converts the sulphides to oxides.
SELENIUM:      A non-metallic element, widely distributed in small quantities
in base metal deposits. Obtained from sulfide ores and
copper refining. Used as a decolorizer for glass, in red
glasses and enamels, and in photoelectric cells and rectifers.
Symbol Se.
SOLVENT EXTRACTION: A method of separating one or more substances from a
mixture, by treating a solution of the mixture with a solvent
that will dissolve the required substances, leaving the others.
SMELTING:      A metallurgical operation in which metal is separated by
fusion from those impurities with which it may be chemically
combined or physically mixed. In copper, the metal is
usually obtained as a molten matte. The product is usually
70% copper.
TAILINGS:       The part of any ore separated by processing and treated
as inferior in quality or value; the gangue, sand, gravel
slimes and other refuse material resulting from the washing,
benefaction or treatment of ground ore. Those portions of
treated ore regarded too poor to be treated further.
November, 1975
Industrial Projects Department



ANNEX 2-1
Page 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
THE, DEVELOPMENT OF COPPER IN CHILE
A.   Early Development
Production Trends
1.        While it is known that the Incas and later the Spanish mined and
processed copper in Chile in the 16th Century, it was not until 1820 that
copper mining began in Chile on a stable basis, with Chilean and British
interests playing the major roles. As shown in Table 1, see following page,
Chile has played an outstanding role in world copper production.
2.        In the decade 1841-1850 Chile produced 100,000 tons of copper, or
22 percent of world outpult and in the following decade (1851-1360) produced
on average 22,000 tons per year, more than 30 percent of world output, making
it the number one producer. Production expanded further in the 1860's and
1870's to more than 40 percent of world output; mostly by domestic and some
British interests. However, Chile's production declined from 1880, and by
the early 1900's Chile accounted for only 5 percent of world output. This
relative decline in Chile was due to:
(a)  World demand and production, particularly in the U.S.A.,
increased extremely rapidly; and
(b)  the high grade copper mines upon which the Chilean produc-
tion had been based were depleted and Chile had, therefore,
to switch to employing the low grade porphyry deposits, which
required large investments and conside'-'-le time for imple-
mentation.
The Introduction of Large Scale Mining
3.        The first two decades of the 20th century marked the entry of U.S.
enterprise and the introduction of large-scale mining in Chile. Chile's
position began to improve again when in 1906 the El Teniente porphyry deposit
was brought into operation, followed during World War I with production from
the large Chuquicamata deposit and, shortly thereafter, from the Potrerillos
porphyry deposit, reaching 15 percent of world output by 1922, a level maintained
through the late 1950's.
4.        After a century of working of high grade stringers, the porphyric
potential of El Teniente became known and the Braden Copper Company was
formed, completing the first concentrating plant in 1906 with a capacity to
treat 250 tons of ore per day. By 1912 a larger plant with a capacity of
3,000 tons per day (ore) was in operation. In 1916 the Braden Copper Company
was acquired by Kennecott Copper Corporation, then the world's largest copper
producer accounting for 40 percent of the total production. The success of
this operation attracted other interests to Chile.



ANNEX 2-1
Page 2
Table 1.    The Relat Iortanceof Chilean Copper in World Production
Period      P r o d u c  t i o n  f o r d e r i o d Chile Production Major Producers
World                     Chile          as percentage of
World Production
(metric tons of fine copper) I%J
1801-1810        163,000             15,000                9.2          England/Japan
1811-1820        168,000             15,000                8.9          England/Japan
1821 1 830      345;0°0°0°        } 65,000                 8.5          England/Japan
1831 -184o       325,000 
1841-1850        441,000            100,000               22.7          England/Chile
1851-1860        578,000            220,000               32.4          Chile/England
1861--1870     1,000,000            401,000               40.1          Chile/England
1871-1880      1,250,00C            457,000               36.6          Chile/Spain
1881-1890      -,254,000            367,000               16.3          U.S.A/Spain
1891-1900      9,750,000            236,000                6.3          U.S.A/Spain
1801o-o1900    C,:_, 20C            ,875,000              1.            U.S.A/Chile
1901-1910       ,94 O,010c          352,000                             U.S.A/Mexico
1911-1920     1, 92P ,Or;0          676,000                6.2          U.S.A/Japan
1921-1930     if,407,COC          2,027,000               t.1           U.S.A/Chile
1931 -1940    9(^.276,000         2,702,000               1 .6           .S.A/Chile
1941-1950     2i, 07,O00          4,347,000                8.6           .S.A/Chile
1951-1960       , 71,000          A,451,000               13.2          U.S.A/Chile
1961-1970     fl, K,90C           6,391,000               1.4- .S.A/U.S.S.Ro
1971 -1974    ^     ,00C          3,070,000               'o.6            S.A/U.SoS.R
1901-1974    19'  u,000          24,016,000               33.0          U .S.A/Chile
1801-1974    I C  79,000         ^5 892,000              -A3. -U .S.A/Chile
Source: CODETC,(



ANNEX 2-1
Page 3
5.        Mining of high grade veins contained in the Chuquicamata deposits
dates back to the 16th century.  After two years of testing for a method to
process the oxide ores, the Chile Exploration Company was organized in 1912
with U.S.A. capital, and production began in 1915. Anaconda Copper Mining
Company acquired the property from the original owners in 1923, and expanded
its capacity to 170,000 tons of fine copper per year by 1927 and 222,000 tons
by 1941, the largest copper mine in the world.
6.        Sparked by the success of other parties in Chile, the Andes Copper
Mining Company was set up in 1913 as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Anaconda
Company to explore the Potrerillos deposits. By 1927 the mine, concentrator
and smelter went into operation, producing 50,000 tons of fine copper per year,
until the deposit was exhausted in 1960, at which time a new deposit, El Salvador,
32 km from Potrerillos, replaced the latter.
B. Recent Development and Production
Post War Production
7.        Since the war, Chile's expansion in copper production has not been
as dynamic as world expansion. Table 2, page 4, shows that since 1950 world
copper production has almost tripled with an average annual growth rate of
4.3 percent while Chile's production has doubled with an average growth rate
of 3.1 percent. Substantial new investments during President Frei's admin-
istration have not yet reached full capacity which should have raised production
over the one million ton mark and hence maintained Chile's share of production
at 14 percent of world total.
8.        Most of Chile's production has come from the three large mining
complexes: Potrerillos-Salvador, Chuqu_camata, and El Teniente. See Table
3, page 6. Two new mines which started in 1971, Exotica and Andina, will
play an important role in the future. Several medium size mines also play
a significan.t role.
Chiileanization and Nationalization
9.        The three older mines -- El Teniente, Chuquicamata and El Salvador
-- were operated as wholly owned subsidiaries of Anaconda and Kennecott until
1967, when as a first step towards nationalization Chile acquired 51 percent
ownership of El Teniente from Kennecott and participated as a minority share-
holder in the new Andina and Exotica operations with Cerro Corporation and
Anaconda respectively.
In 1969 the Government negotiated an arrangement with the copper companies
whereby a Progressive Chilean participation in profits accruing from copper
prices in excess of US$0.40/lb. was levied in the form of an overprice tax.
Also, an agreement was reached with Anaconda on the purchase by Chile of a
51 percent share in the Chuquicamata and El Salvador mines which Anaconda
continued to run under a management contract.



YroS:n t~   in le and the World
c O.r i 1  P r o d u c t -, o n                  sh 1 .L e a n  p r o d u c t i o n                 Chilean production
rPcta I      Annual         Increase              Total             Annual            Increase       as a percentage of
aver.^;w(     annual'                                  average           annual         world production
average                                                   average,
;7>r^ tjr--  >ir,e (Ym,Fr')    %                  (000 tons fine copper)
195V-19.55                                     3.3                  1,949            390                 2.6                  13.7
1,'°-3,,      2 ,, 9             2,509            502                 5.2                   13.7
2,941            588                 3.2                  12.5
19' - 1   J  2t,,   )  3.7                  3,32i,           666                 2.4                   11.8
1971-19,3        20,f'2                        7.3                  2,1tW            7cS                 3.C                  1C.5
1951i 1 9o.                                                                          561                 31                   12.3
3C IIT ~~~~~~~~~~~.'2-                                    - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -



ANNEX 2-1
Page 5
10.       "Chileanization" agreements included detailed and complex provi-
sions regarding Chile's payments for the newly acquired partnership. Agree-
ments with Anaconda also established Chile's obligation to purchase the re-
maining 49 percent shares of Chuquicamata and El Salvador between 1971 and
1981 under an agreed pricing formula. Agreements were put in force between
1966 and 1970 establishing the following joint companies:
Start-up       Mine           Operating Company                     Ownership
Chile          Foreign
1904    El Teniente      Sociedad Minera El          51%   49%  Kennecott through
Teniente S.A.                          Braden Copper Co.
which owned 100%
before April 14,
1967
1959    El Salvador      Cia. de Cobre Salvador   51%   49%  Anaconda through
(predecessor                                            Andes Copper
was Potrerillos)                                        Mining Co., which
owned 100% before
December 31, 1969
1915    Chuquicamata    Compania de Cobre            51%   49%  Anaconda through
Chuquicamata S.A.                      Chile Exploration
Company which
owned 100% before
December 31, 1969
1971    Exotica          Compania Minera             25%   75%  Anaconda
Exotica S.A.
1971    Rio Blanco       Compania Minera             30%   70%  Cerro Corporation
Andina S.A.
11.       On July 11, 1971, under the Allende Government, the Chilean Congress
unanimously approved an amendment to the Constitution authorizing the nation-
alization of mineral reserves and related facilities, particularly of the five
large properties listed above. The nationalization became effective July 16,
1971, and Corporacion del Cobre (CODELCO), the national copper company assumed
ownership, thus becoming the single biggest producer outside the U.S.S.R.



Table 3
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
COPPER PKODUCTION (1940-7)
(in 000 metric tons)
Gran Mineria                                                        Contribution by
Gran_____________________________________ MieraMedium and    All    Gran    Medium and
Year          El Salvador  Chuguicamata  El Teniente  Exotica Rio Blanco  Total  Small Mines  Mines  Mineria  Small Mines
1940-49 av.        72           213            133          _          -        418        n/a         n/a      n/a        n/a
1950-59 av.        42           201            149          -          -        392        n/a         n/a      n/a        n/a
1960-69 av.        80           272            163          -          -         515       101         616      84%        16%
1960               79           232            169          -          -        480         53         533      90%        10%
1961               73           250            159          -          -        482         67         549      88%        12%
1962               82           276            152          -          -         510        76         586      87%        13%
1963               88           275            145          -          -        508         94         602      84%        16%
1964               77           288            163          -          -         528        94         622      85%        15%
1965               74           253            153          -          -        480        106         586      82%        18%
1966               78           304            155          -          -        537        100         637      84%        16%
1967               78           277            182          -          -        537        124         661    -8-1%        19%
1968               86           275            161          -          -        522        139         661      79%        21%
1969               77           283            180          -          -        540        148         688      78%        22%
1970               93           263            177           2          6       540        151         691      78%        22%
1971               85           250            147          35         54       571        127         698      82%        18%
1972               83           235            191          31         54       594        124         718      83%        17%
1973               84           263            178          32         56       616        100         716      83%        17%
1974                80           357           226          32         68        763        127 &       890 /   86%        14%
/ Prelininary.
Source: Banco Central de Chile, OODEL00, ENAMI.
x
Mt.



ANNEX 2-1
Page 7
12.       Compensation was to be paid on the book value of the companies'
assets excluding any mineral rights. The amount of compensation was to be
determined by the Controller General. However, the constitutional amendment
also provided for the deduction of "excess profits" obtained by the companies
between 1955 and 1970. The amount of "excess profits" deductions was to be
determined by the President of Chile. In addition, amounts which in the view
of the Chilean State had not been usefully invested and amounts payable by
CODELCO for shares in the joint mining companies under agreements which the
nationalization legislation declared null and void could also be deducted.
The amount of compensation after deduction and adjustments was to be paid on
a deferred basis over an extended period at interest rates not less than
three per cent.
13.       Under the legislation, President Allende instructed the Controller
General to deduct the following amounts of excess profits:
Chuquicamata (Anaconda)          US$ 300 million
El Salvador (Anaconda)           US$  64 million
El Teniente (Kennecott)          US$ 410 million
These amounts were calculated on the basis of an assumed normal
profit rate of 12 percent for the period between May 5, 1955, and December 31,
1970.  The Chilean authorities also claimed that comparisons of the return on
investment in Chile with investments elsewhere by the companies, showed much
higher returns in Chile. On these bases the Controller General announced the
compensations in October 1971 as follows:
Table 4: COMPENSATION FOR NATIONALIZATION OF 5 LARGE MINES
Chuguicamata El Salvador El Teniente Exotica Andina
(U.S.$ millions)
Book value on
December 31, 1970               242.0         68.4          318.8        14.8    20.2
Less Deductions
Mineral rights                     5.4         0.4            0.2         0.2      1.5
Faulty installations              13.1         5.6           20.5         4.6     0.3
Excess profits                  300.0        64.0           410.0          -       -
Revaluations                       -           -            198.5
Total deductions                318.5        70.0           629.2         4.8     1.9
Total compensation             - 76.5       - 1.6        - 310.4        10.0    18.3



ANNEX 2-1
Page 8
14.       The principle of retroactive excess profits deductions as well as
many details of the calculations were disputed by the foreign companies which
appealed to a special tribunal set up to administer the nationalization. How-
ever, the tribunal ruled that it had no powers to review the President's deci-
sion on excess profits deductions, and the companies withdrew from public legal
proceedings within Chile and sought court decisions in other countries.
15.       The present Chilean Government has declared its intention to pay com-
pensation for the nationalized assets and has recently completed negotiations
with the foreign companies. An agreement was reached with Cerro Corporation
on the payment of US$41 million in cash and notes for the Andina mine. Cerro
will continue to provide technical assistance and engineering services and
help expand the operation. An amount of US$260 million was agreed on with
Anaconda for compensation for Chuquicamata and El Salvador. Settlement has
also been reached with Kennecott for settlement of El Teniente; total compen-
sation of US$68 million was agreed upon, of which US$6.5 million was paid as a
deposit, the remainder payable over 9-1/2 years. Negotiations have now been
completed with Anaconda for the settlement of the Exotica Mine.
C.   The Structure of Chilean Copper Production
16.       Chile produces copper in various forms, i.e., concentrates, blister
copper, fire refined and electrolytic copper. Less than five percent of tota:L
production is used by domestic fabricators and manufacturers, and part of their
production is exported, as shown in Tables 5 and 6 below.
Table 5:  COMPOSITION OF CHILEAN COPPER PRODUCTION, 1960 - 1973
(in %)
1960    1964     1972       1973
Ore and slag                               0.3    0.1        1.1        2.9
Concentrates                               3.6    3.6        9.8       11.9
Cement                                     1.9    1.9        1.2        2.2
Blister                                   49.7   49.7       23.6       23.0
Fire refined /1                           16.1   16.1       13.6       10.9
Electrolytic                              28.6   28.6       50.7       49.1
TOTAL                               100.0  100.0      100.0      100.0
(in '000 t)                      (532)  (622)      (717)       (746)
/1   Including production of Mantos Blancos.
Source: CODELCO



ANNEX 2-1
Page 9
17.       The major conclusions are:
(a) Except for the last few years, all mine production from the
Gran Mineria was smelted, but the proportion refined increased
from 45-50 percent in the early 1960's to 55-60 percent in the
late 1960's to 65 percent in the early 1970's. Smelter capacity
did not keep pace with increases in mining and concentrating
capacity.
(b) Refinery capacity in the Mediana and Pequena Mineria increased
from zero in 1960 to the equivalent of 40-45 percent by 1969
and smelting capacity from 50 percent in 1960 to 70-75 percent
in 1969.
(c) For the sector as a whole refined metal increased from 40-45
percent of total production in 1960 to 55-60 percent in the
early 1960's. Throughout the period about 95 percent of total
production has been smelted.
November, 1975
Industrial Projects Department



ANNEX 2-2
Page 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE COPPER SECTOR
1.        The copper sector in Chile is divided into three major groups:
Gran Mineria (large-scale mining); Mediana Mineria (medium-scale mining);
and the Pequena Mineria (small-scale mining). These three groups come
under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Mines.
A.   Gran Mineria:  Large-Scale Mining
2.        Five mining companies make up the Gran Mineria: 1/  (Sociedad
Minera El Teniente S.A.; Compania Minera El Salvador S.A.; Compania Minera
Chuquicamata S.A.; Compania Minera Exotica S.A.; Compania Minera Andina S.A.).
All of these were owned by U.S. companies until Chile acquired part or
majority ownership under Chileanization agreements negotiated under the
Frei Government between 1966 and 1970. These agreements established several
joint companies with government ownership held through the Corporacion del
Cobre (CODELCO), the State copper corporation. UJnder the Allende Government,
a bill proposing an amendment to the Constitution, authorizing the nation-
alization of mineral resources and related facilities of the copper mines,
was approved on July 11, 1971 and became effective on July 16, 1971; on
this date Chile took possession and assumed charge of the plants of the
five large nationalized copper deposits.
3.        The sector accounts for about 80 percent of Chile's total copper
production and is characterized by very large-scale operations: Chuquicamata
and El Teniente are respectively the largest open-pit and underground copper
mines in the world. The operations are highly mechanized and automated, and
are generally integrated from mining through concentrating, smelting and
refining. A detailed description of the operations is given in Annex 2-3,
Section D.
B.   Small- and Medium-Scale Mining Sector
Introduction
4.        The importance of the small- and medium-scale mining (SITM) sector
in Chile has been little emphasized in studies made on the subject and its
needs received insufficient attention from the Government to develop adequate
1/   All mines with an annual output of at least 75,000 MT.  Although strictly
speaking Andina and Exotica mines have an annual production inferior to
this figure, they are considered part of the Gran Mineria.



ANNEX 2-2
Page 2
policies for the sector. By 1970 the SMM sector was responsible for a sixth
of total exports and 22 percent of total copper output. Almost half of the
sector's mining production was in the hands of a few, highly profitable
foreign-owned companies with Chilean companies having a relatively minor
role.
5.        The legal definition of the small-scale mining industry is "a
mining or mineral-treating activity, owned by individuals or companies whose
total capital, as stipulated in its statutes, is not in excess of 70 'annual
basic salaries."' 1/ The medium-scale mining industry, on the otherhand, is
that mining activity, whose total capital exceeds the above amount but whose
total annual output is inferior to 75,000 MT fine copper. In addition to
these legal differenciations, the other principal distinction between the
small- and medium-scale and large-scale, (LM) mining industries include the
different commercialization of the copper produced, the tax laws affecting
the industry and the state agencies involved in the operation of these indus-
tries.
Structure of the SMM Sector
6.        The small-scale mining industry consists of groups of individuals
(generally between 1-50 persons) mining copper deposits located primarily
in the northern regions of Chile. The miners organize themselves in one of
several different ways: (a) groups of miners, often with their families,
work the mine providing all necessary inputs, (b) individual miners
("pirquineros") exploit a particular mine, paying the owner of the mine a
certain percentage of total mineral output; (c) small entrepreneurs employ-
ing miners, paying a fixed salary to them, and providing the capital and
operational needs; (d) on the basis of mining cooperatives, though these
have yet to be of significance. The system of "pirquineros" (b, above) is
the most widespread of these organizations involving between 6-8,000 miners
of the 10,000 miners employed in the sector. The working equipment and
machinery used in the sector is extremely rudimentary. The small-scale
mining sector is far more labor-intensive than either the medium- or large-
scale mining sector.
7.        As mentioned later, the sector is very dependent on ENAMI, which
is the primary purchaser of minerals from the small- and medium-sized
producers, and whose structure, management and operations are described
in Annex 2-4.
8.        There are presently five important producers of copper in the
medium-scale mining industry. One other producing company, Sagasca Copper
Company, started production in 1972 but has not yet reached full capacity.
1/   "Annual Basic salary" = sueldo vital annual (in early 1974 equivalent to
about $400).



ANNEX 2-2
Page 3
The financial structure, reserves, production capacity and plant descriptions
of these major operations are briefly summarized below:
(a) Compania Minera Disputada de las Condes S.A.
Up to 1971, 80 percent of capital had been owned by the French
company, Penarroya, and the residual capital by individual
Chileans. ENAMI is now owner of 70 percent of the company's
stock. The company was first formed in 1916 and its major
operations include the Disputada mine and a flotation plant
(7,200 tons of ore/day) in the Valparaiso province, and the
Chagres smelter in the Aconcagua province. The total output
of the Chagres smelter is presently 36,000 TM/year which is
mainly produced as blister copper. Proven reserves are esti-
mated to be equal to 40 million tons (1.25 percent copper) at
the Disputada mine, and 20 million tons (1.6 percent copper)
at the El Soldado mine (approximately 15-20 years of proven
reserves at the existing rate of production). Recent explor-
ation has provided convincing evidence that both the
Disputada and Andina mines are part of the same deposits;
hence potential reserves may be very large (a multiple of
40 million tons).
(b) Empresa Minera Mantos Blancos, S.A. (45 kms from Antofagasta)
A fully integrated mining operation which started production
in 1961 and which is controlled by foreign capital (50 percent
Marvis Corporation; 21 percent Empresa Sudamericanas Consolidadas,
both of the Hochschild group; 7.5. percent IFC; 10 percent CORFO;
small amounts of U.S., Canadian capital). This company devel-
oped a new processing operation to exploit the copper deposit.
Total production of fine copper--mainly as refined and electro-
lytically pure copper--is approximately 32,000 tons per year.
Reserves have been declining and are currently estimated to be
five years of open-pit reserves, with additional recoverable
reserves from underground mining.
(c) Compania Minera y Comercial Sali Hochschild S.A.
This company was formed in 1937 and is completely Chilean-
owned. The company has three treatment plants: Ojancos (600
tons/of ore/day) and Chanaral (500 tons of ore/day) in the
Atacama province; La Patagua (240 tons of ore/day) in the
Aconcagua province. The bulk of the mineral treated in these
plants comes from the company's mines and the rest from small
producers in the nearby area. In addition there is a small
amount of sulphuric acid production (300 tons/day).



ANNEX 2-2
Page 4
(d) Sociedad Minera Pudahuel Ltda. (formerly, Santiago Mining Company)
The company was formed in 1969 as a result of the purchase of
the Santiago Mining Company, a subsidiary of Anaconda. The
company has two major deposits--"La Africana" and "Lo Aguirre" 1/
at Pudahuel, although only the former has been exploited--and
a treatment plant with a capacity of 7,200 tons of ore/day.
Annual production of fine copper is approximately 4,000 TM.
The assets were in the hands of a Chilean investment group
from 1969-72 but was confiscated and put under the ownership
of ENAMI in the middle of 1972. The present ownership of
the company is under review by the Chilean authorities.
(e) Compania Minera Tocopilla S.A.
First founded in 1919, financial structure comprises both
foreign and Chilean capital. The company has two treatment
plants in the province of Antofagasta whose capacity is 545
tons of ore/day. Annual production is about 3,500 TM of
fine copper.
The annual production of these companies in the period 1965-73 as well as
that of ENAMI is summarized in the following table:
1/   A $40 million investment involving the Sociedad Minera Puclahuel LTDA
and the US company, Holmes and Narver, for the exploitation of Lo
Aguirre (planned annual production of 22,00 TT fine copper) hlas recently
been agreed upon.



CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
PRODUCTION OF ENA1I4 AND THE PRINCIPAL PRIVATE COMPANIES OF THE MEDIUM-SCALE MINING INDUSTRY (1965-73)
(thousands of metric tons)
Principal Private Companies
Disputada    Mantos       Sali    Pudahuel  Tocooilla                     a
Blancos  HochschAld (Ex -stgo.              Subtota       ENAMI     Total SMM
Years                                           Mining)                                         Sector 
1965            27.6        23.7        2.7       7.2         3.3        64.5         38.7        106
1966            26.6        27.4        3.5       3.8         3.6        64.9         20.0        100
1967            29.7         25.0       5.2       4.6         3.5        68.0         46.o        12L
1968            33.2         30.3       5.6       4.3         3.0        76.4         5o.6        139
1969            33.6         31.3       6.6       3.5         3.5        78.5         53.6        148
1970            38.4         34.1       6.1       4.4         3.8        86.8         53.4        151
1971            3h.3         32.5       6.2       3.0         3.5        79.1         54.6        137
1972            28.8         29.8       n.a.      n.a.        n.a,        n.a.        5B.2        124
1973            11.7  /      26.7       n.a.      n.a.        n.a.        n.a.        73.3        127
The average share of
each companies'
output as a
percentage of
total output
from the small-
and medium-
scale mining
sector   J      24.7        22.6        4.0       3.4         2.7        57.4        34.8         100
1 M
11Excludes output from subsidiary companies.                                                                       (D
2  Calculated on the basis of annual exports; it should be remembered that what appears here as production
corresponds to ENAMIIs purchases from the small mining producers.
3J Excludes Andina production in 1970 and 1971.
h For period 1965-71.
5/ Fall in output during 1972 and, particularly, 1973, reflects, in part, increasing ENAMI control of
- Disputada mining operations; the sum of Disputada and ENAIV]I production for 1972 and 1973 approximabes
to that of previous years.
Source:   CODELCO, ENAMI, and Boletin Mensual of the Banco Central.



ANNEX 2-2
Page 6
]Importance of SMM Sector to the Chilean Economy
9C.       Copper exports from the SMM sector increased from 7 percent of
total merchandise exports in 1960, to 16 percent in 1970, and approximately
maintained this proportion between 1971-73. Its contribution to total
copper production has also increased correspondingly in the same period
as can be seen from the following table:
RELATIVE PRODUCTION BY THE LARGE, MEDIUM AND SMALL PRODUCING SECTORS
Sector       1960    1965    1968    1970    1971    1972    1973
- - - - - - - - - - - - (percentage)
Large        90.0    82.0    79.0    77.3    80.6    82.7    82.4
Medium         6.0    14.1    15.3    16.7)   19 4    17.3    17.6
Small         4.0      3.9      5.7     6.0)
Total       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
10.       An important difference exists between the SMM sector and the LM
sector in that the annual outputs of the former have been far more sensitive
to the fluctuations in the world price of copper. The sharp increase in
output evident since 1960 is due to various new mines and smelting operations
which started up during this period. These include the Chagres smelter,
the Mantos Blancos mining operation, and ENAMI's new smelter and refinery.
Whereas at the beginning of the decade a large proportion of the "fine
copper" produced was in the form of copper concentrate or cement, by the
end of the decade an increasing proportion of copper output in the sector
was processed either to blister or electrolytically refined copper.
Commercialization
11.       All sales of copper in the sector can be made directly to foreign
buyers. However, CODELCO has been delegated the responsibility of control-
ling these operations and must authorize each one of them. These can be of
two kinds: the sale of electrolytically refined copper and the sale of
copper concentrates or cements to foreign clients for further processing.
CODELCO must approve each detail of the final contract including the
prospective buyer, the volume sold and the price at which the copper is
sold, the sales commission, insurance and transport costs and other details.
Since 1965 the average annual sales price of copper from the SMM sector
compared with copper from the LM sector has not differed markedly. Prior
to 1966, however, appreciable price differences were often recorded when
the small- and medium-sized copper producers were governed by copper prices



ANNEX 2-2
Page 7
quoted on the London Metal Exchange, whereas the large copper producers
were still controlled by U.S. companies and sold the vast proportion of
their copper at a fixed price. Towards the end of the last decade ENAMI
started to play an increasingly important role in the sale of copper from
SMM sector, with the start up of the Ventanas smelter and its consequent
greater participation in the processing of ore from the SMM Sector. An
additional change which was proposed, but never in fact materialized, was
that CODELCO should be completely responsible for all sales in the SMM sector
--including ENAMI's. At the end of 1973 the traditional system was again
operative whereby production from the SMM sector was commercialized indepen-
dently, partly by ENAMI and partly by the private companies themselves, sub-
ject always to CODELCO approval, however.
Tax Regulations Affecting the Sector
12.       Historically, the small-scale mining industry was virtually exempt
from the normal tax regulations, including income tax, governing industrial
enterprises; it was also exempt from having to pay import duties on inputs
required for its operations. The only tax to which the industry was subjected
was a 2 percent tax on the volume of its mineral sales which was retained by
the domestic buyer, generally ENAMI. The medium-scale mining industry also
benefited from import duty exemptions but the tax regulations were more complex
with no uniform pattern existing. Several industrial tax laws were applicable
but in practice the Government negotiated directly with the company concerned
and the outcome was invariably an agreement in which tax payments were minimal.
More recently, tax benefits, particularly import duty exemptions, have been
discontinued and the SMM sector is now subject to standard tax regulations
affecting industrial enterprises.
Sectoral Needs
13.       Important measures are either under consideration or have already
been taken to improve inadequacies in the SMM sector and to coordinate its
long-term development. One measure is a reform of the regulations governing
the sector with the objective of increasing revenues derived from the operations
of the medium-sized companies and preventing situations in which such enterprises
pay less taxes than the smaller enterprises. Another measure is that the
Government should play a more cohesive role in formulating a development strategy
for the sector. Several problems are being given consideration here which
include: (i) defining the guidelines for additional foreign investment (the
new foreign investment law has clearly helped but the fiscal regime needs
clearer definition); (ii) improving the current, inefficient organizational
structures of the small-scale mining industry--a complex problem in view of
the significant employment generating effect of the sector; (iii) reviewing
the adequacy of the system for establishing ENAMI's mineral purchasing prices;
(iv) establishing sector priorities for the development of important new copper
deposits such as Andacollo, Lo Aguirre and others, which could have a significant



ANNEX 2-2
Page 8
impact on total output at the end of the present decade; and finally,
I(v) carrying out detailed feasibility studies to evaluate the likely benefits
derived at a national level from the exploitation of a given deposit. Such
decisions will require some measure of centralized government planning, that
ENAMI exercise a much more dynamic and decisive role than at present, and
that government policies have sufficient flexibility to allow scope for
Iprivate initiative.
14.       In order to ensure the efficient exploitation of current mining
operations and at the same time achieve this without detrimental effects on
Chile's overall development, two conditions are essential:
(i) A high degree of decentralization with regard to
the operational and productive aspects of each
copper company's mining operations; and
(ii) Centralization of sector planning and policy-making
decisions affecting the sector's development.
Centralized and effective coordination of the copper sector's development
does not yet exist. Although consideration is being given to establishing a
planning unit within a new CODELCO-like Agency no definitive decision has
been taken. Investment decisions relating to the development of new copper
mines or to the expansion of existing capacity should be centralized within
such a planning unit.
C.   Ministry of Mines
15.       The Ministry of Mines has official jurisdiction over all mining
development in Chile with the exception of the nitrate industry. It is
responsible not only for the copper sector but includes also iron-ore mining
and other metals such as lead, gold and silver which are produced in small
amounts. The Ministry has been traditionally weak and has exerted little
influence in coordinating overall planning of the sector. Its policy-making
role has also been minimal. The foreign-owned companies, and, before and
after nationalization, the State Copper Company (CODELCO), have enjoyed a
high degree of autonomy in not only the operational and administrative
aspects of copper mining development but also in investment planning. When
the Government has intervened on policy decisions affecting the development
of the sector it has in most cases not been through the Ministry of Mines.
The Ministry's functions in practice have tended to be legal in kind (respon-
sible for the Mining Code) and in providing limited technical services to
the mines. The organization of the Ministry is shown below:



ANNEX 2-2
Page 9
Minister
...f.echnical, Legal|
I                Idvisory Serv-ices
VJice-Minister
|Aaminis straivR           j                     EX              gTechnical Service4
The Ministry has an extremely small technical and professional staff. Although
the Minister is chairman of the Board of both CODELCO and ENAMI, decision-
making has been mainly exerted through the Executive Vice President and senior
management of these companies.
16.       A major revamping of the Ministry is currently being considered
aimed at strengthening the role of the Ministry in the sector and bringing
possibly the energy-related fields of petroleum, coal and natural gas under
the same ministerial jurisdiction. The agencies responsible for the develop-
ment of these mining activities are currently under the Corporacion de Fomento.
D.   Corporacion de Fomento (CORFO)
17.       The Government's development agency, CORFO, within its many devel-
opmental responsibilities covering the agricultural and industrial sectors,
has a mining division which comes under the Industrial Department for Non-
renewable Natural Resources. CORFO has also three important autonomous
subsidiaries in the mining sector, the Petroleum Company (ENAP), the Coal
Company (ENACAR) and the Nitrate Industry (SOQUINICH). CORFO's own acti-
vities in the mining sector extend to the initial development phase--
prospection, evaluation of geological resources, delineation of ore bodies,
metallurgical studies--which would allow the subsequent exploitation of
geological deposits. Its activities have been generally in those sectors
where other state entities were not involved, i.e., outside of the copper
sector and iron-ore mining, although CORFO has collaborated with CODELCO
in geological studies related to delineation of the El Abra copper deposit
and is represented on the Board of both CODELCO and ENAMI. CORFO's mining
division has four units: mining economics, mining prospection (including
drilling), chemical and extractive metallurgy, development and production.
CORFO's principal mining activities currently include:



ANNEX 2-2
Page 10
(a) Atacama Salt Deposits - preliminary studies leading to
exploitation of the salt deposits;
(b) Limestone Deposits - preliminary studies aimed at increasing
Chile's production;
(c) Phosphorus Mineral Development - evaluation of Chile's
apatite reserves; and
(d) Magallanes Coal Deposits - geological studies in coopera-
tion with ENAP aimed at exploitation of low-grade coal
reserves.
Industrial Projects Department
April 1975



ANNEX 2-3
Page 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
CODELCO (CORPORACION DEL COBRE)
A.   Formation and Present Legal Statutes
1.        In 1955 Law No. 11,828 "Ley del Cobre", created the "Departamento
del Cobre" as a technical department of the Central Bank to act as a control
agency for the copper industry and supervise observance of the legal provi-
sions governing the industry.  In 1967 a new Law No. 16,624 converted the
Departamento del Cobre into the Corporacion del Cobre (CODELCO, located in
Santiago as a wholly Government owned corporate entity, as a vehicle for
government participation with the foreign mining companies in the exploitation
of the five large mines.
2.        Liaison with the Government is provided through the Ministry of
Mining. CODELCO is administered by a Board, an Executive Committee and an
Executive Vice-President.
3.        The Board is composed of:
1.   Minister of Mining (Chairman)
2.   Executive Vice-President of CODELCO (Vice-Chairman)
3.   Undersecretary of Mining
4,5.   Two representatives of the President of the Republic
6,7.   Two representatives of the Central Bank
8.   Director of Taxation
9.   Executive Vice-President of CORFO
10.  MIanager of Enami
11,12.   Two representatives of Gran Mineria
13-16.   Four representatives of the Institute of Mlining, Engineers
of Chile, Asimet, the employees covered by the Copper Workers
Statute.
17.   One representative of Sociedad Nacional de 1Mineria.
A quorum for meetings is absolute majority of its members (i.e. nine)
and resolutions are adopted by absolute majority of the directors present,
except in cases where special majorities would be required. Board members
serve two years and can be reelected.
4.        The Executive Committee is composed of:
1.   Minister of Mining or in his absence the Undersecretary of Mining.
2.   Executive Vice-President of CODELCO
3,4.   Two directors representing the President of the Republic
5.   One director representing the Central Bank.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 2
A quorum for meetings is at least three members, one of whom must
be the Minister, Undersecretary or Executive Vice-President. Resolutions
are adopted by the majority of those present.
5.        The executive Vice-President is appointed by the President of the
Republic and is the legal representative and administrative chief of CODELCO
responsible for implementing the decisions and resolutions adopted. The
Auditor appointed by the President of the Republic also attends meetings of
the Board and Executive Committee with the right to speak. He may substitute
for the Executive Vice-President.
6.        With the nationalization of the Gran Mineria, new rules were issued
on July 7, 1972, in DFL No. 1 1/ which conferred additional powers on CODELCO.
The decree provided that the capital of the nationalized enterprises was to
be owned by CODELCO and ENAMI in the proportion of 95 percent and 5 percent
respectively. DFL No. 1 is at present, together with a few decrees issued
since September 1973, the principal legal instrument establishing regulations
for the administration and operation of the nationalized copper companies.
It lays down a statute for the nationalized enterprises, determines their
capital structure, organization and administration, gives general guidelines
on accounting, balance sheets, profits and auditing. Under the existing
legislation each of the companies is supposed to be governed by an Administra-
tive Council of 11 members: four representatives from CODELCO designated
by the President of the Republic, one representative from ENAMI designated
by the President of the Republic, five representatives from the employees
of the company elected by vote, and one representative to act simultaneously
as President of the Council and General Manager of the company who can be
designated and removed by the President of the Republic. However, since the
change of goverament in September 1973, the administrative councils have been
abolished and administration of each company is effected solely through the
General Manager. CODELCO has the power to request from the companies all
data and audit it deems fit, and to establish regulations on economic, finan-
cial and labor policy and other activities of the companies. CODELCO is
responsible for marketing the copper and its by-products produced by the
companies, and also for procurement of equipment, spare parts, materials and
the supplies required.
7.        The legislation now governing CODELCO is the product of an evolution
of the Chilean copper sector development and political events rather than a
conscious plan; hence, it leaves to interpretation the actual role CODELCO
should play. Clearly, it is an entity that directs and supervises the produc-
tion activities of the copper-producing enterprises and at the same time pro-
vides service in marketing, purchasing and finance. However, there is consid-
erable disagreement over whether CODELCO should behave more as a service insti-
tution providing services to producing companies or as a fully integrated
company directly participating in the management of the producing entities.
This dichotomy also exists in the present legislation and setup of CODELCO:
1f' Decree with force of law.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 3
on the one harnd policies of production, personnel, marketing, and purchasing
are directed by Codelco staff; production and investment planning are c    l
ized and coordinated in Codelco, suggesting a leaning to the "integrated company"
approach; and on the other, the accounts for the companies are consolidated
under the Gran Mineria (i.e. the five mines) and not under CODELCO, with
deductions (commissions) for budgetary support of CODELCO, suggesting a ehink-
ing of the latter as more a service organization. This dichotomy pervades
the thinking of the various executives within CODELCO and the producing companies.
8.        A clear policy is definitely needed. 1/ The concept of CODELCO as a
fully integrated company, directing the activities of the producing entities
within the framework of relative management autonomy, is strongly recommended and
should help ensure that each producing entity at all times strives for maximum
efficiency in their operations and investment decisions. An early step should
be to adjust the accounting system to allow for consolidated CODELCO accounts
versus consolidated Gran Mineria accounts. CODELCO should be thought of as
a single company with the producing entities considered as individual profit
centers. A thorough review of all legislation governing CODELCO and the Gran
Mineria is needed with a view to revising it to remove ambiguity and provide
clear guidelines for operation and development of the Gran Mineria del Cobre.
This should of course be tied to a complete review of the operating and devel-
opment policy for the overall Chilean copper sector, to ensure that the coordi-
nating and control functions now performed by CODELCO are transferred to an
appropriate monitoring body which would coordinate not only the operations of
CODELCO, ENAMI, the small and medium companies but also of the foreign compa-
nies which may participate in the development of many of the presently unexploited
deposits.
B.   Organization
9.        Organization charts are attached as follows in pages 6 to 13 this
Annex:
Chart I        CODELCO
Chart II       Compania de Cobre Chuquicamata
Chart III      Compania Minera Exotica
Chart IV       Compania de Cobre Salvador
Chart V        Sociedad Minera El Teniente
Chart VI       Compania Minera Andina
Chart VII      Centro de Investigacion Minera y Metalurgica (Mining
and Metallurgy Research Center)
Chart VIII     Instituto de Investigaciones Geologicas (Geological Research
Institute)
CODELCO
10.       As discussed above CODELCO is governed first through a Board of
Directors (seventeen members), second through an Executive Committee, and
thirdly through the Executive Vice-President (Mr. Andres Zauschquevich). The
organization then divides into two areas: a) general management, which includes
1/   By August 1975 a clear policy had emerged and considerable progress made
to implement many of the recommendations contained in paragraph 8.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 4
departments in Sales, Purchasing and Warehousing, Finance, Administration and
Industrial Relations, and b) Enterprises Management, which directly controls
and also provides staff services to the operating companies.
11.       Sales:  By decree CODELCO is responsible for the sale of the copper
and by-products not only from the Gran Mineria but also is responsible for
moniltoring all sales of copper (and by-products) produced in the sector, a
funcition it has performed well to date. Centralizing the sales is very im-
portant to ensure efficient utilization of Chile's mining and processing
faci:Lities, efficient investment and development planning.
12.       Purchasing:  Purchasing of all imported goods has been centralized
for all the companies within the CODELCO head office, but local materials are
purchased separately by each company with the minimum of guidance from the
central office.  This department still requires considerable strengthening;
warehousing procedures, inventory control, reordering practices all need to
be reviewed. Standardizing of procedures and coordination between the central
office and the responsible departments in the operating companies must be
improved. Steps are being taken in this direction.
13.       Financing:  Accounting for each of the enterprises is done by their
own staffs at present: following the procedures used by the companies before
nationalization. These accounts are submitted to the Finance Department in
CODELCO where they are consolidated into the Gran Mineria for the five compa-
nies, but not for CODELCO. The latter is needed. The accounting practices
used are adequate but should be standardized between the companies. The central
office is currently setting up a coded accounting system that will be adopted
by all the companies and CODELCO. Budgetary control and cost accounting varies
considerably between the companies, being superior for El Teniente and Andina,
than for the Northern group, but requires considerable improvement. At present
there is very little interplay between the financial and production departments
and there exists a definite lack of cost consciousness in all operations at all
levels of management. Also, financial planning by department, by company and
by CODELCO is virtually absent. Hence, a major effort is needed to strengthen
the financial functions in both the CODELCO central office and in the companies,
and also to improve cost consciousness of the operators. The concept of profit
centers could usefully be introduced. Revamping the accounting and financial
systems would be an integral part of the corporate reorganization referred to
in paragraph 8.
14.       Administration and Industrial Relations have functional links between
CODELCO and the operating companies which otherwise act significantly autonomous.
15.       Enterprises Management:  The General Managers of the producing companies
report to the Enterprises Manager, who also has reporting to him departmental
managers for Investment Planning, Production Planning, Engineering, Research and
Development, and Geological Services. While the former group appears to have
a direct line relationship with the Enterprises Manager, there exists some
ambiguity in view of DFL No. 1, which establishes, as described in paragraph 6
above, an Administrat:Lve Council responsible for governing the operations of the



ANNEX 2-3
Page 5
operating companies. However, as also mentionctd in paragraph 6, the administra-
tive councils are not operative. Nevertheless, this ambiguity raises the po-
tential for conflict, particularly since much of the legislation (even recent
legislation) governing the Gran Mineria refers directly to the operating Com-
panies, at times excluding reference to CODELCO. The relationship between
the departments listed above, that fall under the Enterprises Manager, and
the operational companies is functional only. No line relationship exists;
hence, coordination and cooperation is of utmost importance if these departments
are to usefully fill their role. Some resistance to this functional link is
being encountered on part of the companies which points up the importance of
modifying the legislation to converting CODELCO to a fully iftegrated company.
16.       Planning:  Several problems are very apparent for the Investment Planning
Planning department for the following reasons:
a)   In the past each mine operated as a separate entity, with investment
and production decisions being directed from the private owners.
Little or no coordination between mines was practiced.
b)   Except for El Teniente, and possibly Andina, most investment
planning and project design and evaluation was done by the parent
companies abroad with little participation of the engineers and
managers of the producing companies.
c)   This has led to a position where the engineers and administrators
in the producing companies, not having been exposed to the planning
function, are reluctant to divert their attention from production
and day to day operations to assist in the planning effort. This
situation is aggravated by the large exodus of senior engineers that
took place after nationalization.
d)   Not only is there a shortage of engineers within CODELCO and the
producing companies as a whole, but particularly there are almost no
engineers with experience in project evaluation and planning per se.
A "planning philosophy" is absent and many of the personnel look
to projects solely from the point of view of the budgeted allocation.
Engineers often proceed with engineering design without consideration
of capital costs, the operating cost and most importantly the finan-
cial viability of the project. Despite the fact that guidelines for
project preparation have been prepared, few projects are presented
in an integrated form that allow for a judgement on project viability
let alone project priorities.
e)   Very importantly, the dichotomy of views as discussed above on the
role of CODELCO, as an integrated company or a service organization.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 6
Now more than ever before it is extremely important that a coordinated
development plan (and strategy for development) be prepared for the Gran Mineria.
This requires two major steps:
a)   establishing of a policy at senior management and possibly at
Ministerial levels, and
b)   development of a long-term Investment Plan.
17.       CODELCO management is very conscious of those needs and are taking
steps now to prepare a five-year investment program. A first draft is expected
by late 1975. A short-term investment program has been prepared for 1974/5,
mainly on the basis of urgent needs and completion of continuing programs.
However, the problem of inadequate project preparation must be solved before
it will be possible to prepare optimal strategy for development of the Gran
Mineria.



CHART 1: CODELCO (CORPORACION DEL COBRE)
ORGANIZATION CHART
CODE LCO
BOARD
EXEC.
COMMITTEE
COOELCO
EXEC. V.P.                                           AUDITING
CIA. COBRE                                                                           CODELCO                                              FISCALIA
CHUQUICAMATA
CIA MINE
EXOTICA.
CIA .OR                                                                                                                           GEEA
SOC MINERAEERL 
CIA.L MINERA1
I  ANDINA     f
MANAGER                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIRECTORA
MANAGER      ~~MANAGER                OF                DIETOR                 MANAGER             MANAGER              MANAGER              MANAGERMAGE
INESTES ANDO          RDUTO              ENGINEERI NG         REERHAOF GOOGIC                                 OFOF                                      OF                  OF                   O
s                                      RESEARCH 8,           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERVICES   SLSUPPLIES                              FINANCE               ADMIN.            INr)USTRIAL
SERVICES                                    D~~~~~~~~~~~~EVELOPMENT     ~~SjRELATIONS
MINING &            GOOI
METALLURGICAL          GEEOLOGCH
RESEARCH CENTER         RSAC
(ClIMMI            INSTITUJTE
__ __ __ __ __      _World B.n,k-9174



CHART 11: COMPANIA DE COBRE CHUQUICAMATA
ORGANIZATION CHART
GENERAL
MANAGEMENT
DEPUTY GENERAL
MANAGEMENT
MANAGER OF
OPERFATIO NS
RISK FORECAST                                      PORT                      INDUSTRIAL
AUDITING                SUPERINTENDENCY                                     AGENCY                     PROTECT SUP.
PRODUCTI ON                 DEVELOPIV MENT               C ONT RO L L E R                              ENGINEERINW J                 I NDUSTRIAL                  MANALd  OF
World Bank-9175



CHART III: COMPANIA MINERA EXOTICA
ORGANIZATION CHART
GENERAL
MANAGER
OPERATIONS
MA AGER
GENERAL  OFFICE           AGMIN.                                            S~~~~~~~~            ~     ~~~EPT. OF  INOUSTRIAL
SIPERIRTENSOFCE                                   SUPERINTEND.               MATERIALS'         I        RISK
s.rplE  CHIEF           SUPERINTEND,  ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~FRECSTENGINEERING
CORORINATION                                                                                     SUPERINTENOET S
|   EXPERIMENTAL j    |  OF MAINTENANCE            PLANNING                  GEOLOGY                 OPERATIONS              MAINTENANCE
PLANT  MATERIALS                                                                                    & SERVICES
A C C O U N TIN G   IN S.   R E L A T IO N S   C O M M ISS A R Y
Wo,Id B.nk-9176



CHART IV COMPANAIA DE COBRE SALVADOR
ORGANIZATION CHART
'COOINTRLGA
! OF ENGINEERING !                                       L      DEPT
SERVICES
|~~~~~~~~~I S;                                                               A'                                                                           A E
AT LE                                                                                                               O                                                     AINIRAI
MANAGER                      MANAGER                                                GNU F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PE INAENCEN
CUORNTN DEDNAT ORDEA
|L INS. RELATIONS |E
MR                                                                                                                                                                                                    ERIAL~~~AOAO  OTEILO  EGNERN
F U'LAW.04S                                                                                                                                                                                                   IES~LATSPLNT  SRVCE
.~~~~~~~~EEA                                                           GEEA _ENERA_
.F3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GPRNEON mOLITESN Wed                                                                                                                                        XTEEN
.~~~~~~~~~~~~CEIA                                                                    OLT
LASGGIE                                                OTO
SUEITEON                     UPRNEOET          OPRINTESEN                                                                                                                                                              OGEOITENEOT       OP AINFNEN
SEP              INUTIL l   GOIATAS                                    SERNTENET          SPRNEON             OFITNET          SPRNEON            SOEITENET         SPRNEDN            SEriTEEN           OGERMTNDN          OP MERMCL          OF ME NCL; XOOITNET                  DPRNE



CHART V: SOCIEDAD MINERA EL TENIENTE
ORGANIZATION CHART
MANAS N S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ MNAE
LEGA.                                                                                    AUDIT
P  STDEPT
GENENERALEPUBLII
MANAGER ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~MNAE
MENET    ER _ENNGE OINNERING
DEPT.                                    EEPARTMENT
PROM'TECTIONN ,.'ETE NA,
MANAGER OF                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PERSONNEL
SUP;LIES                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MANA GER
GE  A                                                                                                                                               -EVA`LUA-TION7
COORDIN~~~~~~ATD CONSUTANT                                                                  REMUERSTONNE
l                                                                                                              DIVISION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EVC
I_ l | 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAE
PUCASINGWR   UETAFl                                                                                                    ETO                 EP.F     l lDYF                        ETD 
[C.NCEN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~REAIN                                              ELTOS| |OEEOMN                    |~ ONS ALYSISO           IRDP
P ANAE                                                                                                                                           MANEAC U| MANGE
-   T.         DEPTL                                                                                                      |                                        '                    -u1 t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEATMN
00  DEPARll1ENl   r [ 1 1                                               <                       - ETV3   j MA NT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t   L    | d B^ 17



CHART VI: COMPANIA MINERA ANDINA
ORGANIZATION CHART
GENERAL
MANAGER
LEGAL
DEPT.
Etf1GINEERING                                                  OPERATIONS                                                                    ADMINISTRATION
&  DEVELOPMNT.                                               MANAGER                                                                       & FINANCE
DEPT.ER                                                                        MANAGER
TEHIA                                 MIEIFRMTO 
DEPT.             .DEPT.                                                   CONTROLLER                -      COMPUTER DEPT.
&                   ~~~~~CONCENTRATOtI                           ADMINISTRATION                      REMUNERATION
|TRAINING DEPT.                        DET                                           DET                               DEPT. |_
INUTRA                           ADIITRTO                                        PURCHASING                                                  0
RELATIONS DEPTDP..ET                                                                                                SALES DEPT.               C
GENE-A. 1
ISUPFRINrTFY>Ehl l
| OF SERVN,ES                                                                                     W
I   _                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World fBank-9179



;ANNEX 2-'
CHART VIl: CENTRO DE INVESTIGACION MINERA Y METALURGICA                                                                 'ngn 13
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD CHAIRMAN  |
VICE CHAIRMAN
SECRETARY                                                                                                      ' EXEUTVEUN
LAWYER                                                     EIRECO                                                     INTERNATIONAL
DIR                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DIRECTOR
PLANNING                                                                                                                         F CHIEF OF
OFFICE                                                                                                                OMNiSTATO
COORDINATOR,                                              COO RDNT  OF                                              | COORDINATOR l
MINE OPERATOR                                          l       MINERAL                                                   CLASSIFICATION
DIVISION                                         B-~      ENEFICATION                                                 OF MATERIALS
; J ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~          CONCENa1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INSTRUMENTAL |
I      MINING                                              
i      METHODSX                                               HYRMTOLRYSETOCP
EVALUATION OF                                            ELECTROMETALLURGY
DEPOSITS                                         _       h EXTFRACTION                                        _        MICROSCOPY
BY SOLVENT
CONTROL                                                                  l
7   "  <                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-9180



ANNEX 2-3
Page 14
18.       Research and Development:  With the nationalization of ,he Gran Mineria
use of the large sophisticated research organizations of Anaconda and Kennecott
was lost to the Chilean industry. It has therefore been necessary to replace
them with a national research center, and there is no doubt the Chilean copper
sector is definitely large enough to support a significant research and develop-
ment effort. To provide for a fully coordinated research effort, CODELCO took
two major steps:
a)   They established a Research and Development Division to identify
the needs and problems faced by the Gran Mineria, to prepare research
projects and conduct these programs, and
b)   Took over control of the Centro de Investigacion Minera y
Metalurgica (CIMM), which was set up in 1970 with assistance
from the UN, Belgium, Canada and Great Britain (see description
paragraphs 52-56 this annex).
As with the planning department, coordination of research is very
important but has met with some resistance, for many of the same reasons listed
under planning in paragraph 16 above. The director of research is making a
major effort to establish a working relationship with all the producing compa-
nies. Correctly utilized, major benefits can be realized from the research
center.
19.       The Departments of Production, Engineering and Geology appear to
have established satisfactory functional links and working relationships with
the operating companies.
The Companies
20.       While each of the companies is administered by a general manager,
the organizations from there on differ considerably between companies, depend-
ing upon that inherited from the private companies. This contributes to some
of the coordination problems discussed above, making it difficult to:
a)   establish functional links between the companies and the central
departments of CODELCO;
b)   establish standard procedures for investment planning, personnel
administration, production planning and control, purchasing and
inventory control, and research and development, and
c)   very importantly, standardize budgetary control, implement
rigorous cost accounting procedures, establish accounting codes,
and introduce financial management.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 15
Any major reorganization would in itself be a major task which the
shortages of staff would make difficult to implement at this stage. Never-
theless, it would be very useful to review the total organization structure
of CODELCO and the companies, with a view to improving coordination, stand-
ardizing, eliminating redundancies and duplications, and establishing clearly
defined lines of responsibilities and authorities. Internal reporting pro-
cedures could be improved to facilitate coordination and assist decision
making. There exists a very obvious lack of communication and a reluctance
to communicate not only between the companies and CODELCO but also between the
departments within CODELCO. Steps must be taken to rectify the situation.
In full realization of the problem the management have engaged a consultant
team (Consultores en Ingeneria y Administracion de Empresas) to: a) study the
reorganization of CODELCO and the companies, including an analysis of the
information system; b) Review the system of costing and establish a cost
accounting system; and c) Review the existing and prepare a new system for
production control. The study has been underway for about six months and it
is expected that preliminary results will be available by mid 1975. It is
very important that management make an early decision to implement recommendations
of the study. One question that readily comes to mind is, is it necessary for
each producing company to have a head office located in Santiago independent
of CODELCO? Would it not be more effective to combine the functions of the
separate Company head offices under the CODELCO staff? This should imr rove
efficiency, elminate duplication, and lower the staff requirements (an important
factor considering the shortage of qualified staff) and consequent costs.
C.   Staffing
21.       Largely as a result of the mass exodus of engineers (foreign and
national) in 1971/72 after the nationalization of the Gran Mineria by the
Allende Government, CODELCO and the Gran Mineria have a problem of serious
staffing deficiencies. Nevertheless, the senior management in CODELCO has
been filled with experienced and qualified personnel, with few important gaps.
Support staff is thin and overall the CODELCO group has a very young staff
with limited experience. For example, the average experience of the engineering
staff at Chuquicamata is four or five years, and at Potrerillos, which was left
with only two mining engineers at one point after nationalization, the average
length of experience is close to two or three years. The average length of
experience at Andina is somewhat longer, and the staff at El Teniente tends
to be the most experienced of all operations, primarily as a result of the
"Chileanization" agreement reached in 1967 with Kennecott. Andina has the
benefit of support from Cerro engineering staff as agreed under the national-
ization contract.
22.       Despite the relative inexperience of the staff and promotion of
young staff members to senior posts, the production operations of the mines
have been carried out reasonably effectively, and production since September
1973 has increased substantially. This is a creditable performance given the
poor state of operations inherited by the administration in September 1973
and the lack of spare parts. Nevertheless the operations still operate



ANNEX 2-3
Page 16
considerably be7ow the potential and suffer from the lack of mining engineers
but particularly from a lack of metallurgical engineers (hydro and pyr'metal-
lurgical) and process control engineers. It has been estimated that n, re than
150 additional metallurgial engineers (versus 100 now engaged) are nee4ed to
efficiently operate the concentrating plants, smelters and refineries. Process
control is one area which needs substantial improvement for all the operations
and which will have substantial financial benefits. Possibly more than 50
additional mining engineers are required for operations, but also importantly
needed are experienced operational supervisors. Also the Gran Mineria faces
the Chile-wide problem of shortages of skilled tradesmen: welders, mechanics
and electricians.
23.       Perhaps even more crucial is the lack of qualified people to fill
some of the staffing functions of CODELCO and the five companies. Areas
affected are:
a)   product:ion planning and control,
b)   investment planning,
c)   project preparation and evaluation,
d)   research and development,
e)   warehousing, purchasing, inventory control, and
f)   administrators.
These gaps not only place a heavy burden on the staff now responsible
for the above functions, but will place a definite limit on the Gran Mineria's
ability to expand its operations. These staffing needs will be more difficult to
fill than those for the production activities since more experienced people are
sought.
24.       Cognizant of the staffing problem the management have established
a division of "Human Resources" under the Director of Research and Develop-
ment. This unit is at present making an inventory of the total professional
resources of the companies, with a view to identifying specific staffing gaps
and training needs. An active recruiting program is under way, but given the
worldwide shortage of mining and uetallurigcal engineers and administrators,
and relatively low salaries of CODELCO this can only be a partial solution.
A major emphasis will have to be placed upon training of existing staff
through special university courses, through scholarships for travel to other
operations, through exchange programs, and special on the job training, etc.
The use of consultants and other technical assistance will also be needed.
A very important factor to be taken into account is the underutilization of
engineers by CODELCO and the companies. Engineers are often assigned tasks
that could more fittingly be done by technicians without university level
training. It is very possible that if all jobs now performed by engineers or
vacant were closely scrutinized, it would be found that many of them could be
adequately performed by technicians or experienced workmen with a little
training. Hence the shortage of engineers may not be as serious as thought.
This aspect should be given more consideration. Training of technicians may
be the real oroblem.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 17
25.       The labor force is well trained, and except for some of the skills
listed above, in adequate supply. tit present as a result of the Allende
policies, the operations are over-staffed, despite the large layoffs. Normal
attrition is expected to reduce the labor force to normal levels within one
or two years. The following table lists the employment in the Gran Mineria
in June 1974.
Persons Employed in the Gran Hfineria (June 1974)
Entity                                          Number of persons
CODELCO                                                    717
Compania de Cobre Chuquicamata                          10,421
Compania Minera Exotica                                    418
Compania de Cobre Salvador                               5,929
Sociedad Minera El Teniente                             12,695
Compania Minera Andina                                   2,021
Centro de Investigacion Minera y Metallurgica              117
Instituto de Investigaciones Geologicas                    243
Total                                             32,561
D.   Description of Operations
26.       Following are brief descriptions of the operations administered by
CODELCO.
Chuguicamata
27.       The Chuquicamata complex consists of a large-scale open-pit mine,
a concentrator, a smelter and a refinery, located 240 km NE of Antofagasta,
2,870 m above sea level. It has an extremely dry continental climate with
moderate temperatures.
28.       The Mine is based upon a huge porphvry copper deposit.  Proven
reserves are 1,500 million tons at 1.21 percent copper and about 0.04 percent
molybdenum to a depth of 400 meters. Yet one drill hole to 600 meters below
the pit bottom showed continued mineralization of more than 1.2 percent copper.
Hence, the potential reserves are really a multiple of the 1,500 million tons
of proven reserves. The ore in the upper part of the deposit (i.e. that part
accounting for the main production to date) consists chiefly of copper oxide
minerals (antlerite, brochantite and atacamite). However, the primary ore
making up most of the deposit and which will account for most of future pro-
duction consists chiefly of copper sulphide minerals (chalcocite, covelite,
chalcopyrite). The Chuquicamata pit is the largest non-ferrous open-pit mine
in the world, 3,400 m long, 1,400 m wide, 400 m deep, with a production capacity
of 180,000 tons of ore and waste/day. With the existing stripping ratio of 1.5:1,
100-120,000 tons of waste is removed per day and 55-65,000 tons of ore. Average
grade in 1974 was 1.80 percent copper, and should average 1.6 percent or more
over the next four-five years. Equipment on order will increase this by 45-50,000



ANNEX 2-3
Page 18
tpd to 230,000 tpd. These capacity figures, however, assume an equipment avail-
ability factor of 40 percent which is extremely low and a more normal availability
of 65-70 percent would increase these figures significantly. Recent production
of more than 350,000 tons of ore and waste for one day give creditability to
this conclusion. In the 36-year production plan, the strip ratio will increase
but it will never be greater than 3:1. Conventional drilling and blasting is
used. The waste on the upper benches is mainly loaded out by the train system,
the remainder of the waste and all ore is hauled by truck. As part of the expansion
expansion program a 54" gyratory primary crusher was installed in the pit,
connected by conveyor belt through an incline tunnel to the concentrator.
This, however, forms a bottleneck and needs modification. The planned capacity
of 5,000 tons/hour has never been attained. l-Iining during the next five years
wikl be in the southwest and northwest part of the open pit and then later in
the eastern part of the pit. Considerable stripping is required to ready the
east side for production. With additional equipment now on order, production
equipment will total twenty-two electric shovels (up to 16 yard capacity),
nine rotary drills (12-15" diameter), eighty trucks with capacity of 100 and
120 tons, plus railroad equipment. During the period 1968-73 operations in
the open pit deteriorated significantly, due to improper production sequence
and lack of spare parts. This resulted in the doubling and even tripling
of bench heights from the standard 13 meter height resulting in hazardous,
unsafe conditions and pit slope instability. Some progress has been made
in stepping out the stripping requirements and getting the bench heights to
13 meters for better production control and safety, but normal conditions
will not be restored before late 1975. Better equipment utilization and
scheduling could provide significant increases in production with little or
no investment, and reduce operating costs. Achieving further significant
increases in production should be afforded high priority.
29.       The Concentrator.  Primary crushing is conducted by (a) a gyratory
crusher (60") located at the concentrator which is fed directly by truck, and
(b) by a 54" crusher located in the pit, connected to the concentrator by
conveyor. These are followed by five lines of secondary and tertiary crushing
facilities, 12 lines of grinding facilities (rod and ball mills) grinding to
50 percent - 200 mesh, flotation, regrind, thickening, filtering, molybdenum
separation and copper drying facilities. The concentrator has the capacity
to treat 65,000 tons of ore at 1.65 percent copper per day, but with de-
bottlenecking (a small investment of US$500,000), could be increased to
75-80,000 tons per day (at 1.65 percent copper this equals 1,100 tpd of fine
copper, the present target). With a small investment in the order of US$5-6
million in additional grinding facilities flotation cells, and tailings thick-
eners, it has been estimated that capacity could be increased to 90,000 tpd
at 1.65 percent copper; this equals 1,400 tpd. of fine copper, or more with
the existing grade of 1.80 percent copper). As the mine grade drops mill capa-
city will have to be increased further. The concentrator produces (a) approxi-
mately 2,000-2,500 tpd of copper concentrate grading 35-45 percent copper with
a recovery rate of 90-91 percent (the grade will drop with the deeper ore owing
to a higher chalcopyrite/chalcocite ratio); and (b) 18-22 tons per day of moly-
bdenum concentrate grading 54 percent Mo., with a recovery ratio of 50 percent.
The copper content of the tailings is 0.21 percent. In the period 1972-74 the



ANNEX 2-3
Page 19
flotation cells were replaced by larger units providing a better recovery
(1-1/2 percent) for a total cost of US$17 million.
30.       The Molybdenum Plant has a capacity of 18 tpd but a new plant is
now under construction which will go into production in 1976 with an estimated
output of 45 tpd of 54 percent molybdenum. Note: Chuquicamata is a large
molybdenum mine, and the grade increases to 0.09 percent MoS2 to the west.
31.       The Smelter built in 1948-52 has a present capacity of 680 tpd of
blister copper (i.e. 2,000 tpd of 38 percent copper concentrate) with a 50
percent matte, which is sufficient to treat only 60-65 percent of the mine
and concentrator output. Plans have been made to expand this capacity to
800-850 tpd of blister by eliminating bottlenecks, which will still be short
of the 1,100 tons required (i.e. 3,200 tpd of 38 percent copper concentrate)
to treat the total Chuquicamata output. Since the Chuquicamata ore has a
high arsenic content (1-1.5 percent), most smelters outside Chile hesitate
to accept it, or impose heavy penalties. The smelter has four reverbatory
furnaces (one as spare) and five converters (one spare). The converters form
the main bottleneck to smelter production and this has been accentuated over
the past several years by the use of low quality Chilean bricks. Imported
brick will result in some improvement. Hence, it is proposed to install
an additional (the sixth) converter. Also it is necessary to install one
anode casting wheel, two anode furnaces, one hot metal overhead crane, two
new concentrate dryers and a reclaimer for bedded material, and to extend the
building by 50 meters. Total cost is estimated at US$15 million. Coupled
with a 200 tpd oxygen plant to supply the converters with oxygen (at an es-
timated cost of US$6 million), these investments should increase smelter
capacity to the 800-850 tpd figure quoted above. Rebuilding of one of the
reverbatory furnaces just completed and rebuilding of a second one plus the
introduction of oxygen into the reverberatories should help obtain better
recoveries by reducing delays in charging the converters and providing for a
better mixing of the converter slag in the reverberatories. Smelter recovery
is expected to improve from 95 percent to 98 percent, with the copper content
of the slag decreasing from the high 1.9 percent to 1.0 percent.
32.       The Electrolytic Refinery has a capacity of 900 tpd of cathodes, but
requires additional cathode melting facilities.
33.       Electrowinning Plant for recovering copper from the leach solutions
of the oxide leaching plant treating the Exotica ore. Daily production capacity
is 181 tons, equivalent to 60-65,000 tpy.
34.       Noble Mletals Plant:  Here gold and silver are recovered at the rate
of 2,300 kgs per week by treatment of the anode sludge from the electro-
refinery. Increased recoveries should be possible with better control. A
new Selenium plant will recover approximately 13,000 kg of Selenium per year.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 20
Exotica
35.       The Exotica ore body located 1 - 1-1/2 km from Chuquicamata was
developed as part of the 1965-70 expansion program. The deposit which extends
1,400 m N-S and 1,200 m E-W, has proven reserves of about 185 million t-ons of
1.7 percent copper. The copper is contained in copper oxides in which copper
silicates predominate, with smaller proportions of malachite, atacamite, and
wad (an amorphous oxide with some manganese content). To date more than 150
million tons of gravel overburden have been removed and 14 million tons of
ore mined. The deposit is mined by open-pit methods, and was designed for a
capacity of 36,000 tpd. At present some 78,000 tons of gangue and 26,000
tons of ore are extracted each day. Mine equipment totals two rotary drills,
34 100-ton trucks, and four 13-cubic yard shovels. The ore is crushed in a
54" gyratory primary crusher to -7 inches and then transported by conveyor
(2,600 meters) to a leach electrowinning plant where it is first ground in
cone crushers to -3/8 inch, and then leached with 93 percent sulphuric acid
for 82 hours. The leaching is by percolation. The oxide minerals dissolve
in the acid and form a liquor or pulp rich in copper sulphate. The ore is
then washed in water for 40 hours. The complex nature of the Exotica ore,
however, makes it necessary to cleanse or purify the pulp; one quarter there-
fore is purified by adding lime, and three quarters by passing it through a
chloride plant which yields cupruous chloride. The cleaned pulp then passes
to the electrowinning cells (at Chuquicamata) where the copper is recovered
as cathodes, melted and cast as wirebars, in the Chuquicamata smelter.
36.       To date Exotica has only been able to reach 35 percent of its de-
sign capacity. The major problems are inadequate design of the leaching
electrowinning plant. The Exotica ore consists of several geological types
which are mineralogically very complex. While the leaching plant has a
capacity for 350 tons of copper per day (with good leaching ore from
Chuquicamata), it can only leach 150 tons of copper per day from the treatment
of 20,000 tpd of 1.2 percent Exotica copper ore, achieving a 57 percent recovery.
The tailings contain between 0.5 and 0.8 percent copper. The leaching vats
become blocked with colloidal silica, impurities of alumina, manganese, iron,
magnesium and zinc. Acid consumption is excessive. Some improvement is ex-
pected by expanding the crushing plant (installation of two Symons shorthead
and one Symons standard crushers, plus loading the unloading bridges, replac-
ing the clamshell with a bucketwheel excavator for cleaning the vats, redesign
of conveyors to reduce spill, and installation of dust control equipment.
Recovery should increase by 70 percent and copper production to 180-200 tpd.
The electrowinning section has a very low current efficiency (50 percent),
ferric iron in the electrolyte attacks the copper starting sheet andc,there
is a heavy slime build-up. The situation is being studied. A small one
gallon/minute solvent extraction pilot plant has been operating for several
months, and a larger 50 gallon/minute pilot plant is under construction.
A small agitation leaching pilot plant has been built in Exotica. Preliminary
tests indicate that a plant to be built in three stages, the last to be com-
pleted in 1978, can produce 350 tpd of copper from 36,000 tpd of Exotica ore.
Total new investment is expected to be US$113 million.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 21
El Salvador
37.       The El Salvador mine is located in the Atacama province, 1,050 km
north of Santiago, 2,600 m above sea level. The climate is dry. The mine
is located 150 km from the port of Chanaral.
38.       The Mine uses block-caving and sub-level caving methods to extract
ore from several porphyry ore bodies 40 to 200 meters below the surface.
Proven ore reserves are 260 million tons averaging 1.3 percent copper and 0.012
percent molybdenum. The mining methods are reasonably modern, using scooptrams
and drill-jumbos. Haulage is by trolley locomotive pulling 47-ton cars to the
crushing plant. The deposit outcrops with low grade copper of 0.3-0.4 percent
copper and has the potential for a small open pit mine with ore reserves of
15-16 million tons of mixed sulphides and oxides. Mine capacity is about
25,000 tons of ore per day, yielding approximately 85,000 tons of fine copper
per year. The mine suffers from bad scheduling of block caving sequences in
earlier years (highgrading), which has led to high rock pressure requiring
heavy expenditures for support in the sub-levels and haulage drifts. The LHD
machines in the sub-levels are old and need replacement. Two new LHD machines
are on order. An investment of US$2.5 million is needed to improve the venti--
lation system.
39.       The Concentrator located near the mine is modern consisting of four
grinding sections (each with one rod mill and two ball mills) followed by
cyclones and flotation. The concentrator produces two concentrates: (a)
a 46-47 percent copper concentrate (high due to chalcocite in ore) with an
82-85 percent recovery ratio (low due to presence of copper oxides in the
ore); and (b) a 57 percent molybdenum concentrate with a recovery ratio of
86 percent. Concentrator design capacity is about 220,000 tons of concentrate
per year. The tailings containing 0.3 percent copper are thickened and treated
in a treatment plant at Llanta, producing a 4 percent copper concentrate which
is recycled. The concentrate is transported via a 4-inch pipeline to Llanta
and from there by train to the smelter at Potrerillos. It has been proposed
that a sand/slime separation and sulphidization of the oxide minerals could
increase the copper recovery.
40.       The Smelter located at Potrerillos 32 km from the mine is very old
and obsolete. It has the capacity to smelt 240,000 tons of concentrates and
is presently processing all El Salvador's output (190,000 tons) plus about
20,000 tons from Chuquicamata. The smelter has five roasters used for drying
concentrates, one operational reverbatory furnace (two others have been dis-
mantled), three operating converters (one spare), two anode furnaces and an
anode casting wheel. Concentrates are received as a slurry in railroad cars
from the concentrators. The smelter recovery is only 93 percent versus 98
percent for other smelters. Energy and fuel consumption is high, maintenance
costs are high and the working environment is very poor with high gaseous
discharges. The anodes produced are of very poor quality leading to a large
amount of anode scrap. The poor design and age of the smelter raise doubts
as to the viability of attempting to modernize and improve the efficiency of
the smelter, although this is well worth considering. Modernization of the



ANNEX 2-3
Page 22
smelter would entail a new reverberatory furnace, two waste heat boilers, a
new converter blower, three new converters with air supply lines and hoods,
a precipitator for converter gases, and restoration of walls and roof to im-
prove ventilation and work environment. Cost would be US$15-20 million, which
compares favorably with US$90-100 million for constructing a new smelter and
refinery.
41.       The Electrolytic Refinery also located at Potrerillos has nominal
capacity of about 76,000 tpy (65,000 is a more obtainable figure). This is
only about 75 percent the capacity of the smelter. The cathodes are cast into
wire bars. The refinery is old and inefficient. Quality control is not good
and the shipped product is often inferior. The electrical generating facilities
in the Barquito plant located on the coast 110 km from the refinery are in poor
condition and require investment to keep not only the smelter and refinery
operating but also the concentrator, mine, workshops and townsite.
El Teniente
42.       The El Teniente complex consists of a large underground mine, con-
centrators, a smelter and refinery, and workshop facilities, located 132 km
SE of Santiago, on the Cordillera 2,500 m above sea level.
43.       The Mine:  The El Teniente Mine is based upon a deposit with more
than 3 billion tons, averaging 1 percent copper. The main copper minerals are
chalcopyrite, bornite, chalcocite and coveline. More than 450 million tons
have been mined to date. Average run of mine grade is now 1.5 percent copper
and 0.02-0.04 percent molybdenum, and is expected to remain similar for the
next ten years. The underground mining method used is block caving (blocks of
60 x 60 x 100 m), with ore being extracted from two separate areas: North
Mine (16 blocks) and South Mine (8 blocks). Present mining capacity is about
55,000 tpd: 37,000 tons at North Mine, 18,000 at South Mine. To date this
method has worked well, the ore is highly fractured and caves readily into
smaller fragments. The mine does not have a primary crusher and ore is fed
directly to secondary cone crushers, which makes El Teniente (the largest
underground metal mine in the world) the only major mine without a primary
crusher. The ore grade will drop with the move to the primary ore and by
1980 the output will have to increase to 62,000 tpd compared to 55,000 tpd
to maintain the same copper output.
44.       The Concentrators:  El Teniente has two concentrators:  the Colon
concentrator completed in 1971 and the-Sewell concentrator built in 1906.
The combined capacity of the concentrators is 55,000 tpd run of mine, pro-
ducing 1,500-1,600 tpd of copper concentrates, with 44 percent copper content
and 12 tpd of molybdenum concentrates with 56 percent molybdenum content.
Recoveries are 81 percent and 50 percent for the concentrates respectively,
and considerable improvement should be possible. With the change to primary
ore (predominantly chalcopyrite) from the secondary ore (predominantly
chalcocite) the concentrate grade will drop to 30 percent (versus 44 percent).



ANNEX 2-3
Page 23
The run of mine ore (31,000 tpd in Sewell and 25,000 tpd in Colon) is crushed
directly by Symons cone crushers followed by grinding in ball mills and cy-
cloning and flotation. The absence of a primary crusher causes large fragments
to be delivered from the mine, causing interruption of feed through the wobbler
and cone crushers with subsequent high maintenance--a serious bottleneck.
45.       The copper-molybdenum concentrate from the Sewell concentrator is
transported by pipeline 9-1/2 km to the Colon concentrator where the molyb-
denum is separated, and the final copper concentrate produced. The copper
concentrates are then piped in slurry form 2-1/2 km to the smelter at Caletones.
46.       The Smelter built in the 1920's and subsequently expanded, contains
three rotary driers, nine roasters, two reverberatory smelting furnaces,
eight converters, three holding furnaces, two reverberatory refining furnaces
and a 400 tpd oxygen plant. An imbalance between the two reverbs and eight
converters was corrected by construction of a new reverberatory furnace.
Present smelter capacity is about 520,000 tons of concentrate (220,000 tons
of fine copper) with a recovery ratio of 94 percent (which is low in comparison
to other smelters). Slag analyses run at 0.8 to 1.29 copper. In 1975, there-
fore, there will be some excess tonnage of concentrate of what the smelter
can handle. This shortfall is caused by a failure of the expansion program
to meet its obligations and a failure of the concept of smelting concentrates
in converters with oxygen enriched air. The reverberatory furnaces form a
major bottleneck; hence, a new reverberatory has recently been commissionLA,
and with the rebuilding of another reverberatory furnace in late 1974,
smelter capacity is expected to increase sufficiently to handle all concentrate
produced (i.e., to 650,000 tons). Eventually (after five-seven years) the
mine will be extracting ore which will produce 30 percent copper concentrates
and if copper production is to be maintained, the tonnage of concentrates
to be smelted will increase by 50 percent. Hence, some major modifications
are required. The staff at El Teniente are currently looking at the alter-
natives of a) rebuilding one of the older reverbs, b) installing the Noranda
Continuous Process Smelter, or c) installing a flash furnace.
47.       El Teniente produces fire refined copper in the two reverberatory
refining furnaces. In 1974, the product mix has been about 71,000 tons of
fire refined, 108,000 tons of blister, and 41,000 tons of electro-refined.
The latter is produced at Enami's Ventanas Refinery.
48.       Infrastructure.  El Teniente has large foundries and machine shops
and the engineering division is fully staffed with engineers of all disciplines
Recently water and power have been in short supply. Thirty towers on the
main transmission line were damaged by storm, but have almost been repaired
again. A subnormal snowfall in 1973 created a water problem requiring pump-
ing from the Coya river. A new tailings disposal system is required urgently



ANNEX 2-3
Page 24
to replace the one presently used. A new tailings dam is under construction and
finance is being sought for a 40 km tailing conduit between the concentrator and
the dam.
Andina
49.       Located 50 km NE of Santiago in the Andes at an altitude of 3,900 m
above sea level, Andina consists of a mining and concentrator complex but not
a smelter. The finished product is 39 percent copper concentrate, shipped to
Japan for smelting. The climate is harsh and access difficult.
50.       The Mine put into production in 1970 is based upon an underground
porphyry deposit in andesite intruded by granodiorite with measured reserves
of 115 million tons of 1.6 percent copper and approximately 0.03 percent
molybdenum. Main sulphide minerals are chalcopyrite and bornite with some
chalcocite. Further exploration is being conducted to extend the reserves.
Mine production recently reached 13,000 tpd of 2.2 percent copper and 0.03
percent molybdenum ore. Production is expected to reach 3-1/2 million in
1974 and may be expanded to 6-1/2 million tons by 1978 with a credit from
Sumitomo of Japan. Mine grade will drop to 1.8 percent by 1978. Block caving
methods are used, with ore passes feeding through chutes onto a conveyor system.
Initial difficulty in inducing caving has been solved and the ore is now flowing
smoothly.  Primary and secondary crushing is done in the mine with two jaw
crushers (42-inch and 48-inch) and a Symons cone crusher.
51.       Concentrator.  Because of the heavy snow falls and avalanches that
occur during the winter, the concentrator is located underground, connected
directly with the mine through a six-kilometer tunnel. Tertiary crushing
with a cone crusher is followed by grinding in two rod mills and four ball
mills. The concentrator is of conventional sulphide flotation circuit, with
a design capacity of 10,000 tpd of ore. It produces a 30 percent copper con-
centrate with 88 percent recovery. The concentrate is transported as a slurry
to Saladillo, 1,700 m above sea level, through a 26 km pipe 4" in diameter,
where it is filtered and dried before being shipped by truck or train to the
Ventanas Smelter owned by Enami 150 km distant. Part of the concentrate is
smelted and refined by Enami and part is exported. The tails contain 0.26
percent copper.
Mining and Metallurgical Research Center (CIMM)
52.       CIMM was set up in late 1970 as an applied research center under
the Ministry of Mines to serve the needs of the production sector, particu-
larly but not exclusively copper. The center received technical and financial
assistance from the United Nations, Belgium, Canada and Great Britain. The
objectives of CIMM were specified as:



ANNEX 2-3
Page 25
(a) to build up a high-level research staff;
(b)  to create the physical infrastructure needed for research; and
(c) to carry out applied research in accordance with the most
imperative needs of the national mining industry.
53.       Over the past three years the center built its staff up to a level
of 117, including 76 professionals (of which 12 are foreign experts) and
41 administrative and service staff. Work has been carried out in the
following fields:
(a) Mining - Mining methods, orebody evaluation, mining economics;
(b)  Mineral Beneficiation - ore dressing, pyrometallurgy, hydro-
metallurgy, solvent extraction, process engineering; and
(c) Mineral Characterization - assay procedures, chemical, mineralogy
and spectroscopy.
54.       Studies.  To date the center has conducted studies as follows:
(a) Mining Section: (i) statistical techniques for analyzing ore-
body reserves, grades, and impurities; (ii) slope stability at
Chuquicamata and Exotica mines; (iii) rock mechanics and ventila-
tion problems at El Salvador; (iv) open-pit equipment availability
and utilization studies at Chuquicamata--truck versus rail; (v)
economic studies of the effects from moving to the harder ores
in both El Teniente and Chuquicamata;
(b) Mineral Beneficiation - (i) various flotation reagents to lower
the pyrite content of the Chuquicamata concentrate; (ii) new pro-
cesses of sulphidization of oxide minerals in the El Salvador ore
to allow their recovery; (iii) crushing and screening at El
Salvador; (iv) hydro-metallurgical problems at Exotica, agitated
leaching, solvent extraction, classification of Exotica ore for
suitability for leaching; (v) leaching and solvent extraction
for recovery of copper from Chuquicamata waste dumps; (vi) recovery
of selenium from the anode slimes from Chuquicamata and El
Salvador; (vii) reagents to expedite settling of tailings;
(viii) improvement of electrowinning and electrorefining
techniques - periodic reverse currents; (ix) use of oxygen
in converters; and
(c) Mineral Characterization: (i) chemical and mineralogical
analyses; (ii) review of sampling and assaying methods used in
mines; (iii) establishing standards.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 26
55.       Results:  The value and quality of these studies or areas of re-
search varies considerably. Some have been completed, but for many a start was
merely made and a continuing program is under way. While the quality of some
of the studies has been excellent and some have made use of well-known experts,
others have been of superficial nature. The staff is relatively young and in-
experienced in operational practice which has created some disadvantages and
made cooperation from the production personnel more difficult to obtain. As
discussed earlier, staffing of the Center with the quality of people needed to
make it a major factor in the copper sector will be very difficult and in the
short and medium term it will be necessary to place heavy reliance on foreign
expertise under some aid program. Administration of the center should be
improved, and greater effort placed upon personnel policies. At present there
is much dissension among the staff and many have recently left leaving vacancies
which are difficult to fill. Salaries are just one problem requiring urgent
attention. It must be recognized that the major asset of any research organi-
zation is the people it possesses, without which all the equipment in the world
is of no value. To date the work has provided some very useful results. A
project for the recovery of selenium will soon be financed and repay the re-
search costs in multiple each year. Good progress in research on solvent ex-
traction will lead to a project to improve Exotica's problems.
56.       One of the problems faced by the Center has been inadequate budgets
and lack of research equipment and facilities. To date the Center has been
working in temporary buildings and making use of the university laboratory
facilities. Budgetary support has come mainly from CODELCO, and after
September 1973 the new CODELCO administration took over the Center placing
it directly under its charge. CODELCO has provided the center with a capital
budget of US$5 million to allow it to complete permanent facilities consist-
ing of office buildings, laboratories and pilot plant and semi-industrial
testing installations. When completed the Center will have adequate facil-
ities to become a major research center. All that remains will be the ef-
ficient utilization of this center. However, while the mineral beneficiation
testing is ideally located in the Center, the mining studies may be better
located with CODELCO itself with better access to the engineering and operat-
ting staff. Any improvement in process control in the concentrators and
smelters which leads to improved recovery should pay handsome dividends.
Recoveries are now low and even an improvement in recovery of the Gran
Mineria by 1/2 percent would more than cover the annual budget of the Center
five or more times.
Geological Research Institute (IIG)
57.       IIG was established in 1967 as a state institution intended to
conduct basic geological research in Chile. In 1970 many people left the
institute and it required rebuilding into an effective organization. In
1972 the institute became more closely connected with CODELCO.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 27
58.       The Institute does work in three fields:
(a) Regional Geology, or basic infrastructure geology with
mapping orientated to Chile's immediate needs;
(b) Economic Geology, by far its largest effort in both metallics
and non-metallics.
(c) Applied Geology, exploration using geophysical, geochemical
methods plus related field work and laboratory analyses.
The work of each section is coordinated with that of the geological staffs
of the Gran Mineria, and correlated to evaluate possible prospects.
59.       IIG has a central office in Santiago and regional offices in Arica,
Iquique, Antofagasta, Copiapo, La Serena, Concepcion and Aysen. It is
staffed by 243 persons including 160 professionals (geologists, engineers,
chemists, etc.).
60.       With the large number of known copper deposits in Chile and the
subsequent very large inventory of copper reserves, it does not appea, that
the best use is being obtained from the Institute by exerting a major effort
in the search for copper. CODELCO should be able to adequately handle this.
WIG could usefully help to locate geological favorable areas for minerals
other than for copper, and help Chile diversify its resource base. Increased
emphasis on preparation of metallogenic maps, regional geological maps and
assistance in the prospecting for and exploration of other basic metals
(possibly lead, zinc, iron ore, etc.) coal, nitrates, potash and salt de-
posits, etc., would seem to be optimum strategy.
E.  Financial Position
Recent Past (1970-1974)
61.       Because of the rapidly advancing exchange rate, the artificial rates
imposed upon the exports of copper, and some past inappropriate procedures, thle
financial statements for CODELCO and the Gran Mineria are not fully meaningful.
Regrettably during the Allende regime many of the accounts and records were
destroyed, and partial information only is available on the financial position
of the companies in 1971, 1972, and 1973. However, audited financial statements
are available for 1974 operations.
62.       Nevertheless the information available indicates that the financial
performance of the companies began to deteriorate in 1971. The primary causes
were: the large increase in wages and salaries implemented by the new regime;
the sharp drop in world copper prices from an average of 624/lb (LME) in 1970
to 48//lb (LME in 1972; and the imposition of an artificial exchange rate which
adversely affected the copper revenues. As indicated in Table 1, unit production



ANNEX 2-3
Page 28
costs (after taxes) increased from 27-290/lb in 1969, 1970 to 45-50O/lb for the
1971-1973 period. If the effect of the artificial exchange rate is removed, the
production costs for 1971-1973 still remain high at 36-45i/lb. In 1971 and 1972
the five companies together barely showed a consolidated profit. However, with
the sharp increases in prices in the 1973 and the almost doubling of ti.e rate of
production in the fourth quarter; the companies showed a significant piofit in
1973 and 1974. As indicated in Table 2, net cash generation for the five com-
panies in 1972 barely reached break-even, but in 1973 and 1974 cash surpluses
were realized even after replenishing stock levels.
63.       Despite the poor performance of the five mines during the 1971-73
period, a sound financial position was maintained as indicated by the consoli-
dated balance sheet, Table 3. Consolidated balance sheets treating CODELCO
as a "holding company" parent of the five mines are now being prepared. The
current ratio dropped to 1.2:1 in 1972 but recovered to 1.7:1 in 1973. With
the rescheduling of debt negotiated in early 1974, the consolidated accounts
for the five mines indicated a current ratio of 2.3:1 and a debt/equity ratio
of 12:88. Following the settlement of the expropiation issues, CODELCO however,
will be saddled with a much greater debt burden. From the settlements with
Cerro Corporation, Kennecott and Anaconda, Chile has agreed to the following:
a)   For the Rio Blanco Mine, the Government has agreed to pay a total
$40 million to be paid back over 15 years; $15 million to be by
the Government and $25 million to be assumed by CODELCO with a
14-1/2 percent interest charge; and
b)   For the three Anaconda properties a total of $250 million will
be paid over ten years with a 4-1/2 percent interest charge;
$194 million will be assumed by CODELCO, ($6 million paid in
1974), $59 million will be assumed by the Government.
(c) For the Teniente Mine, the Government agreed to pay $63 million
compensation to be paid in cash and notes over a period of
10 years at 10 interest.
64.       Because of the very favorable financial performance of the companies
during 1974 and the considerable investment with cash generation, the debt/equity
ratio did not increase by the end of 1974. Hence, the company is expected to
remain in a stable financial position and readily service its debt obligations.
The Immediate Past (1974-75)
65.       Tables 4 and 5 present the actual and projected cash flows for the
Gran Mineria for 1974 and 1975 respectively. The operating cash surplus for
1974 improved vastly over that of the three previous years, despite a signifi-
cant jump in production costs. For 1974, this was the result of a significant
increase in prices (averaging 93w/lb of fine copper) coupled with a large pro-
duction increase. However, the prices dropped to less than US$55U/lb in early



ANNEX 2-3
Page 29
1975; prices in 1975 are expected to average around 56J/lb (much lower than
the average for 1974). Revenues from sales fell considerably due principally
to the sharp fall in world copper prices but also to the agreement between
the CIPEC countries to cut back production and exports by 15%. Despite a
reduction in unit operating costs resulting from a stabilization of production
conditions and the severe budget cutbacks (15% in local currency) ordered by
the Minister of Finance, only a small operating cash surplus will be realized.
66.       In 1974 the heavy debt servicing requirements (US$54 million to
foreign lenders, and US$146 million to the Central Bank) plus the considerable
equipment replacement, debottlenecking and rehabilitation investment require-
ments placed CODELCO in a significant cash deficit position, requiring a severe
curtailment of the capital expenditures in the final quarter. Much of the
investment program had to be postponed. The debt servicing requirements for
1975 are lower than for 1974 but capital expenditures have had to be curtailed
to a total of just over $100 million to maintain a net cash surplus. Clearly
CODELCO needs to obtain additional funds to: a) rationalize existing operations;
b) make up for lack of investment over the past four years; c) complete the
investment program begun in 1967; and d) continue with their expansion program.
Medium-Term Future (1976-1980)
67.       Based on projected production and copper prices (Table 6) CODELCO
is expected to maintain a sound financial position with operating cash
surpluses averaging about US$200 million during the period 1976-1980. Profits
are expected to continue to be about US$300 million per year during the projected
period. Approximate estimates would indicate total debt servicing requirements
(repayment and interest) at about $100-110 million per year in the early years.
This leaves the CODELCO group with cash surplus of about US$200 million per
year for capital investment. The profitability of the operations will ensure
that a sound financial position and capital structure is maintained. However,
the taxation regime will most probably be altered to significantly increase
Government revenues from this source.
F.   Recent Production Performance (1974 and 1975)
68.       Production from the Gran Mineria reached 763,000 tons in 1974, 24%
higher than the 1973 production (the previous high) and 18,000 tons more than
the budgeted production figure for the year. As indicated in Table 7:
a)   The production for Exotica was below the programmed figure
(77%), but equal to the 1973 production level--as the mine
continued to experience severe processing problems; the
mining operation came to a standstill on December 1, 1974,
for a period of at least 6 months as part of a concentrated
effort by the CIPEC countries to stabilize falling copper
prices.



ANNEX 2-3
Page 30
b)   The El Salvador and El Teniente Mines achieved targeted
production. El Salvador, however, dropped 2-3% below the
1973 production level which was a direct result of the more
d ifficult mining conditions experienced with the move of
production areas from the softer to the blockier ore.
El Teniente, on the other hand, exceeded the 1973 production
level by 24% or the previous high by 15%, despite the gradual
move into the blockier ore. As more and more of the produc-
tion areas move into the blockier ore, maintaining this per-
formance will become increasingly difficult.
c)   The Chuquicamata mine exceeded targeted production by 7%, or
the 1973 level by 36%, or the previous high by 17%.
69.       Table 8 shows the production of Molybdenite from the three operations,
Chuquicamata, Salvador and Teniente. At 9,000 tons of fine Molybdenum, this
represents a 90% increase over the 1973 production; a direct result of greater
mine production and improved by product process control.
70.       Overall operating performance of the CODELCO Group in 1974 was much
improved over the previous three years, a result of better management, increased
availability of spare parts and supplies, and vastly improved labor relations.
The increase in production reflected, in part, a realization of the large
investments undertaken by the five companies between 1966 and 1972, but still
falls short by 14% of the 880,000 tons capacity expected from these investments.
This shortfall is made up as follows:
Capacity Expected
From Investment        Actual                x
Mine                    Program (1968-71)  Production in 1974    Variance
El Salvador                           90                 80                 -11
Chuquicamata                         354                357                  +1
El Teniente                          274                225                 -18
Exotica                              102                 32                 -69
Andina                                 63                 68                 +8
TOTAL                           883                762                 -14
71.       Both Chuquicamata and Andina have reached targeted capacity, with
El Salvador and El Teniente desplaying small shortfalls due, in both cases,
to the problems experienced with block-caving mining methods in the primary
ore. Exotica has experienced major processing problems for which test work
has found a solution but which requires substantial additional investment to
rectify.



Table 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS FOR THE FIVE LARGE COPPER COMPANIES
INCOME STATEMENT
1969                      1970                   1971                       1972                      1973                   1974
Sales Volume (000 tons)                   544                       540                       571                      593                       616                     763
($ Million)  ($/lb)    ($ Million)  ($/lb)    ($ Million)  ($/lb)           ($ Million)  ($/lb)       ($ Million)  ($/lb)  ($ Million)    ($/lb)
Sales Revenue                             792.4        0.66         840.0       0.70          665.5       0.53         602.8        0.46       1,012.5        0.75    1,612.0         0.96
Cost of Products Sold                                                                         381.7       0.30         406.8        0.31         655.4         0.48      979.0        0,58
Sub-total                                                                              283.8       0.23          196.0       0.15          357.2        0.26       633.0       0.38
Administration Costs                                                                           86.8       0.07          67.5        0.05         113.0         0.08      180.8        0.11
Financing Costs                                                                                50.1       0.04          44.1        0.03          47.6         0.04        36.4       0.02
Depreciation                                                                                   69.0       0.05          69.7        0.05          55.0         0.04        71.5       0.04
Operating Profit                                                                        77.8       0.06           14.8       0.01          141.5        0.10       344.3       0.21
Other Income2                                                                                   1.0                      6.7                     357.6         0.26         6.0         -
(51.7)3/  (0.03)
Taxes                                                                                          36.5       0.03          10.9        0.01          119.4        0.09        88.7       0.05
Net Income                         468.0        0.39         491.1       0.41            42.3       0.03          10.6        0.01         379.7        0.28       209.9       0.13
Source: CODELCO
Footnotes:
1/  From August 1970 the exchange rate allowed the Gran Mineria for converting Sales Revenues into Escudos was maintained   fixed at 15.8 through to August 19
then increased to 20.0 to April 1973, increasing to 22.4 for May, 45.0 for June-August, 46.0 for September, 110.0 October, 111.3 November and 130.0 December.
At the same time local costs inflated 22.1 in 1971, 163.4% in 1972 and 508.17  in 1973.  This artificial exchange rate inflated the local costs expressed in
US dollars beyond actual costs.  To determine the impact of this artificial exchange rate, the "Operating Profit" has been recalculated using an exchange
rate adjusted to reflect devaluationi of t-e i.scudo, as follows:                                9                      1
1971                    197 2                     19/3                                               X
(US $million)  ($/lb)  (US $million)  ($/lb)  (US $million)  ($/lb)
operating Profit before tax                               144.7        0.11          132.1       0.10        502.6         0.37
Operating Profit after tax                                104.0        0.08           96.0      0.07         374.4         0.28
2/  Includes the profit from the reduction of the dollar value of the Escudo debt with the central bp,k, due to the devaluation.
3/ Other costs.
October 14, 19/5



Table 2
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS FOR THE FIVE LARGE COPPER COMPANIES
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS (1972-1973)
1972                                                                             1973
1st Qtr.     2nd Qtr.      3rd Qtr.      4th Qtr.      Year                     1st Otr.      2nd Qtr.      3rd Qtr.      4th Qtr.      Year
------------------alen- ---------------------     (USSt) --------------------------------- ----
A. FOREIGN CURRENCY: Offshore
1. Sources of Funds
Revenues from Sales - foreign   149.8           143.8         127.9         129.3      550.8                      149.7          193.7         180.1         310.5       834.0
Other                               1.4          25.6           0.9           1.1       29.0                        -                                          5.6         5.6
Sub-total                       151.2        169.5          128.8        131.4       579.8                      149.7         193.7         180.1          316.1      839.6
2. Application of Funds
Materials and Supplies             13.1          16.8           6.7           9.7       46.3                        13.3          16.3          13.4          20.6        63.6
Freight and Insurance               3.1           3.6           3.1           4.5       14.4                         5.0          4.9            3.4           5.5        18.8
Refinery Charges                    0.8           1.1           0.8           0.8         3.4                       0.4            0.7           0.7           0.4         2.2
Debt Servicing                      9.3          14.6           1.1           6.9       32.0                         7.2          13.8           3.9           9.6        34.6
Miscellaneous                      17.3          11.0           1.9           4.2       33.8                         1.4           3.0          11.5          23.1        3e.9
Sub-total                       43.6          47.1           13.6          6.1       129.9                       27.3          38.7          32.9           59.2       158.1
3. Net Cash Generation Offshore         107.6         122.4         1152          104.8       449.9                      122.4         155.0         147.2         256.9       681.5
B. FOREIGN CURRENCY: Onshore
1.  Sources of Funds                     17.5           8.1           5.6           4.8        36.0                        -             -             -            54.0        54.0
2. Application of Funds
Selling Expenses                   )1.6           2.3           1.3           2.2        7.1                        1.8            1.2          0.7            1.0         4.8
Freight and Insurance              )                                                                                  -             -             -            0.9         0.9
Refining Charges                   12.3           5.0           4.0           3.5       24.8                          -             -             -           18.0        18.0
Debt Servicing                       -             -            6.4            -         6.4                        3.1            3.0            -          120.5       126.5
CODELCO Charges                      -             -             -             -           -                         1.0           6.8           6.0           0.8        14.6
Miscellaneous                       8.5           2.0           3.8           8.4       22.7                        0.9            0.8           1.4           0.3         2.9
Income Tax                          5,0          16.5           5.2           0.2       26.9                          -             -            1.1          20.1        21.2
SUD -total                        27.4          25.8          20.5          14.2       87.9                        6.8           11.8           9.2         161.6       189.4
3. Net Cash (Deficit):Onshore            (9.9)        (17.7)        (14.9)         (9.4)      (51.9)                      (6.8)        (11.8)         (9.2)       (107.6)    (135.4)
C. NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE GENERATION           97.7         104.7         100.3          95.4       398.1                      115.7         143.2         138.0         149.2       546.1
0--------------(US$ Million) ------------------------                         ---------------------(Escudos  - Billion)---------------
D. LOCAL CURRENCY
1. Source of Funds
Sales                               5.02         14.2          13.6           9.2       42.0                        0.2           0.2           0.5            2.6         3.5
Company Store                     )                                                                                  0.2           0.2           0.5           0.9         1.8
Other                             )23.2           9.2           5.9         114.7      152.9                        0.1           0.1            0.1           0.3         0.6
Line of Credit                    )                                                                                  3.0           1.2           6.4           0.7        11.4
Sub-total                        28.2         23.4          19.5         123.9       194.9                        3.4           1.8            7.5           4.5        17.3
2. Application of Funds
Salaries                           63.6          63.1          57.6         116.4      300.7                        2.9           2.5            4.9           8.4        18.7
Salary Tax                           -             -             -             -          -                         0.2           0.2            0.2           0.6         1.2
Materials                          28.9          38.2          28.1         45.6       140.8                         1.2           1.3           2.3           8.8        13.6
Services                           12.6          29.7          28.o         38.2       108.4                         1.1           1.6           2.8           5.8        11.3
Debt Servicing                      0,9           0.1           0.8            -         1.8                          -             -             -            0.3         0.4
Investment                          7.7           5.2           7.1           9.2       29.3                        0.2           0.3           0.5            1.0         2.1
Costs of Refining                   0.1           1.0           2.1           2.0        5.3                          _             _             _                         _
Sub-total                      113.8          137.3        123.7          211.4      586.3                        5.6           5.9           10.8          24.9        47.3
3A. Net Local Currency (Deficit)        (85.6)       (113.9)       (L.fl2)         (87.5    (391.4)                       ()            (4            (;2)         (20.4)      (30.0) (w
3.. Weighted Exchanae Ratio                                                                                               20.1          28.5          57.2         119.7        62.5
3B. Net Local Currency (Deficit)                                                                                        (105.8)       (143.8)        (59.4)       (170.4)    (479.4)
(in us$ Million)
E.  NET CASH FLOW OF GRAN MINEIA              12.1          (9.2)        (2.9)            7.9       6.7                        9.9           (06)         78.6          (2.Z)          .7
September 1975



Table 3
CHIIJ:  C0ER SECTOR PROJCT                                                       AN        2-
CClSOLID&TED ACCOUETS FOR THE FIVE LAiGE COPPER COhPAItES
BALANCE SlET -
1971                          1972                             1973                           1974
US * Million equivalent)
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                                        34.0                          22.6                             16.7                          7.2
Inventories-                                              200.6                          323.2                            528.1                        555-7
Receivables-short tem                                      102.2                         125.9                            260.5                         183.7
Prepaid Expenses                                            50.4                          73.9                              59.3                         65.1
Sob-total                                             387.2                          545.6                            864.6                        811.7
Other Assets
Mine Developmeat                                            19.6                          24.8                             61.9                          17.6
Receivables-lo.g term                                       17.5                          17.2                             17.0                          13.-'
Sub-total                                               37.1                          42.0                             78.9                          30.8
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets, Installations
and Equip:sent                                      1,347.0                       1,438.8                          1,514.4                       1,735.8
Less:  CumulatLve Depreciation                             419.4                         480.9                             531.6                        612.0
Net Fixed lasets                                       927.7                         949.9                            982.8                       1,123.13
TOTAL ASSETS                                                 1,352.0                       1,537.6                           1,926.3                       1,966.3
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                           187.1                         290.9                            176,7                          356.1
4/
Debts .ith Central Bank                                     54.6                         180.2                            136.6
Sub-total                                              241.7                         471.2                             513.3                         356.,
Lung-term Debt                                                466.6                          420.7                            387.6                         192.2'
Other Obligations                                            0.2                            0.2                              0.4                           0.2
Capital and Reserves                                          601.3                          634.9                            645.3                        1,207 ,
Profit for the Year                                         42.3                           10.6                            379.7                          209.9
Sub-total                                              643.6                         645.5                           1,025.0                       1,,417.S
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CApITAL                                   1,352.0                       1,537.6                          1,926.3                        1,966.3
Current Ratio                                                 1.6:1                        1.2:1                            1.7:1                          2.3,.L
Debt/Equity Ratio                                            42:58                         39:61                            27:73                          14:86
Source: CODELCO
Footnotes:
1/ Balance Sheet for December 31, for each year.
2/ Inventories valued at the cost of production, and materials valued at average purchase cost (except 1971 which used LIFO). The Inventories include:
1971                        1972                              1973                                1974
Finishen Products                       32.4                        84.0                              131.7
Product, in Process                     34.2                        71.4                              120.5                               186.0)
Materials & Supplies                   129.1                       148.8                              238.4                               366.9)
Others                                   4.9                        19.0                               37.4                                 2 6
TOTAL                     200.6                       323.2                             528.1                               555.S
3/ Mine Development costs are amortized as a charge to production of the ore made available by the development.
4/ These made up from the purchase of dollars and loans to service lines of credit. The need to do so was a reault of the artificially
low rate given to the companies for the sale of their sales revenue. In June 1974 the Ministry of Finace, passed a resolution to
convert the debt eisting on December 31, 1973 into equity.
Industrial Projects Departant
September 1975



ANNEX 2-3
Fage 304
Table 4
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS FOR THE FIVE LARGE COPPER COMPANIES
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS (1974r
1st Qtr.        cnd Qtr.         3rd Qtr.         4th Qtr.              Year
-_______--_------------------ (U      ion)-----------------------------
A. Foreign Currency Off-Shore
1.  Source of Funds                        4417.2           529.6            466.3            339.3            1 752.4
1.1  Dire es                           350.1            3r"              396.1            27              1,556.0
1.2  Exchange of Goods                  41.1             12.6             17.4             -                  71.1
1.3  Others                             26.0              0.9             52.8             45.5              125.3
2. Use of Funds                            100.9             75.2            116.6            113.4              406.2
2.1  Materials and Supplies            -7;7              IUT1 7"                                            VrI
2.2  Freight and Insurance               6.8              6.5              7.5              7.5               28.4
2.3  Refining Charges                    0.8              0.9              0.3              0.7                2.7
2.4  Debt to Central Bank                8.9             12.9             37.7             34.0               93.6
2.5  Debt Service                       16.7             10.9              8.0             17.9               53.5
2.6  Miscellaneous                       0.8              1.3              0.5              1.0                3.7
2.7  Exchange of Goods                  41.1             12.6             25.5             15.6               95.0
Net Cash Generation Off-Shore          316.3            454.3            349.6            225.9           1,346.2
B.  Foreign Currency On-Shore
1.  Source of Funds                          11.0             3.8             -                 3.6               18.4
2. Use of Funds                              51.7           145.6            136.9             64.9              399.1
2.1  Income Tax                        2;7               67.                               20.0             193.4
2.2  Housing Tax                        -                -                -                 6.4                6.4
2.3  Selling Expenses                    1.6              1.5              1.0              0.4                4.6
2.4  Freignt and Insurance               2.9              3.7              3.8              3.2              13.5
2.5  Refining Charges                   10.0             -                -                -                 10.0
2.6  Debt Service                        6.6             67.0             52.0             20.2             145.9
2.7  Codelco Charges                     2.8              3.9              1.4              9.5              17.5
2.8  MisceLlaneous                       0.4              1.9              0.4              5.2                7.8
Net Cash (Deficit) On-Shore            (40.7)          (141.8)          (136.9)           (61.3)            (380.7)
C. Net Foreign Exchange Generation              275.6           312.6            212.7            164.6              965.5
D. Local Currency                          ---------------------------- (Escudoes Millions) ------------------------
1.  Source of Funds                      3,259            3 916           12 580           21,359             41 114
Sale of Copper and Sub-products   164 7                                I1
Company Stores                       654            1,054           1,451            2,945              6,105
Other                                958            2,413            2,914            4,117            10,403
2. Use of Funds                         51 853          1014 666         168 913          263 020           588 452
Salaries                                                          ;T95 ',1  6       6Ij03             lsi,779
Materials                         20,288           ,9,295           67,776         111,761            239,121
General Costs                      3,213            8,203          12,193           17,050             40,659
Selling Expenses                     124            1,221            2,275           3,015              6,635
Refining Charges                     889            2,525           5,603            7,128             16,145
Cost of t:ompany Stores            3,128            5,818            7,467          11,982             28,396
Taxes                              1,634            6,o47          15,395           23,300             46,376
Investment                         3,331            9,340          15,594           27,748             56,013
Amortization and Interest            328               -                -                -                 327
3.A   Net Local Currency (Deficit)    (48,594)         (lCO,750)        (156,333)        (241,661)          (547,338)
3. Weighted Exchange Rate
(Es/lYS$)!                           183:1            295:1         785:1          1453:1
3.B   Net Local Currency (Deficit)
(in US$'OOO)                      (265.5)         (3141.14)      (199.1)        (156.2)              (972.2)
E. Net Cash Flow (US$ Million)                   10.1           (28.8)         13.6            (1.6)                16.7)
1/ This is at best an estimate, subject to a large margin of error due to the very rapid inflation rate, and difficulty
in determining the exact dates of expenditures. The exchange rates applied to CODELCO were as follows: Jan. 1-Feb. 5
130; Feb. 5-Mar. 10: 200; Mar. 11-20: 235; Mar. 21-May 12: 263; May 13-26: 300; May 27-July 7: 330; July 8-
Aug.  5:  550; Aug. 6-12:  860; Aug. 13-26:   00; Aug. 27-Sept. 2:   930; Sept. 3 - 16: 990;Sept. 17 - ?6: 105';
Se.t. 27 - Oct. 16: 1130; Oct. 17 - Nov. 6: 1250; Nov. 7 - Nov. 25: 1340; Nov. 26 - Dec. 9: 1f;80; Dec. 10 - 11: 1870.
Source: CODELCO
September 1975



Table 5                                   ANNEX 2-3
Page 35
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS FOR THE FIVE LARGE COPPER COMPANIES
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS (19 75)
1st  Qtr.  2nd Qtr.   3rd Qtr.   4th Qtr.        Year
----------------------(S$ Million)--------------------------
A. FOREIGN CURRENCY
1.  Source of Funds                  318.3       238.3       355-3       294.7       1,203.8
a.  Sales Revenue                233.6  73      8.2                                777.
b.  Loans Revenue                 84.7         0.1       133.5        90.9         306.4
2. Application of Punds
a.  Operations
Materials and Supplies        35.7        29.5        27.9        28.0         121.1
Freight and Insurance          8.8         9.8        10.2         8.7          37.6
Refining Costs                 1.8         1.5         2.3         1.9           7.4
DFL No. 1                      4.7         3.8         4.8         3.4          16.8
Income Tax (Min. of Fin.)   42.7           1.5        31.0        28.1         103.4
Tax (Ministry of Defense)   23.2          20.3        21.6        20.3          85.4
Market Switching               3.8         1.8         1.0         0.9           7.5
Interest and Principal         -          18.1        75.9        58.4         152.4
Miscellaneous                  1.6         4.1         3.4         1.4           7.7
Sub-Total              122.3                   175.1       151.1         539.3
b.  Investment                      7.6        8.4         4-0         2.9          22.8
c.  Debt Servicing                67.9        33.8        36.7        21.6         160.0
Total Applications               197.8       132.7       218.8       175.6         722.1
3.  Net Foreign Exchange Surplus   120.5         105.5       136.5       119.1         481.6
B. LOCAL CURRENCY
1.  Source of Funds                    16.5       15.2        15.9        15.7          63.2
2.  Application  of Funds
a.  Operations
Salaries                      43.2        29.9        31.0        39.5        143.6
Materials                     39.5        44.8        66.o        57.2         207.5
Services                      15.8       19.9         21.3        20.4          77.4
Tax                          10.1        11.2        15.8        14.6          51.7
Other                          0.4        0.5         0.3         -             1.3
Sub-Total              lf79T7      106.3       134.4       131.          481.
b.  Investment
Projects                      16.9        14.0        11.4       11.0           53.3
Customs Taxes                  -           -           -           -             -
Sub-Total                16.9         .        -           -:T75          53.
c.  Company Stores                 4.0         3.9         4.0         3.8          15.6
Total Applications               129.9       121.2       149.8       146.4         550.3
3.  Net Local Currency Deficit    (113.4)    (109.1)    (133-9)    (130-7)            (487.0)
C.  NET CASH SURPLUS (Deficit)          7.2       (3.6)        2.6      ( 11.6)       (  5-4)
Operating Cash Surplus             18.9       22.7       (75.8)    ( 67.3)        (101.5,)
Source: CODELCO
October 14, 1975



Table b
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS FOR THE FIVE LARGE COPPER O0MPANIES
CASH FLOW STATEMENTS (1976-1980)
(1)        (2)          (3)               (4)                   (5)              (6)           (7)               (8)                 (9)             (10)
Total Cash
Surplus
After Taxes
Available         Debt         Cash SUrplua
Sales                                                                 Total                                             for Debt       Servicing      for Investsent
Production   Price        Sales          Cash Costs           Depreciation      Production      Profit    Income Taxation Rate       Repayment      Repaymsent       Dividends
and Sales  US$.67/lb    Revenme                 Tot                                Cost        (Loss)                              & Investment      Interest      (USS million)
Year  Coan          (OO tons)             (US$ million)  ($/hb)  ($ million)           ($ million)  ($ million)  (S million)   (        (US$ million)  (US$ million)  (US$ million)       (Rounded!
1976   Chnnuicamata   2400                      591         45         397                  31            428         163         30          49            145
Teniente        247                      365         46         251                  34            285          80        20           16             98
Andina           60                       89         35          43                  11             54          35        15            5             41
Salvador         79                      117         60         105                   4            109           8        29            2             10
Sxotica           0                        0          0           0                   0              0           0        15            0              02
Total      786                    1,162        46          796                  80           875          322                    67             294             no              184
1977   Chuquicamata    424                      626         45         421                   32           453         173         30          52             153
Teniente        249                       368        45         247                   39           286          82        20           16             105
Andina           68                      101         35          53                   9             62          39        15            6              42
Salvador         80                      118         60         106                   3            109           9        29            3              9
Exotica          40                       59        47           42                   1             43          16        15            2             1S
Total      861                    1,272                    855                  84           953          319                     79            324             110             214
1978   Chuquicmata   364                         538        45         361                  28            389         149         30          45            132
Teniente        250                       369        45         248                   37           285          84        20           17            104
Andina           66                       98         34          50                  10             60          38        15            6             42
Salvador         80                      U8          60         106                   3            109           9        29            3              9
Exotica          40                       59                     41                   1             42          17                      2             16
Total      800                    1,182                    806                  79           885          299                     73            303             110             193
1979   Chuquicanata   364                        538        45         361                   28           389         149         30          45             132
Teniente        ?S0                      34 9         e         2248                 36            284          °4        20           17            103
Andina           64                       96         34          48                   9             57          39        15            6             42
Salvador         80                       U8         60         106                   3            109           9         29           3              9
Exotica          40                       S9        45           40                   2             42         _7         15            2                             - 
Total      778                    1,180        45          803                  78           881          288                     73            303             100             203
1980   Chuquicanata   364                        538        45         361                   28           389         149         30          45             132
Teniente        250                      369         45         248                  35            283          85        20           17            104
Andina           60                       89         34          45                   8             53          36        15            5             39
Salvador         80                      U8         60          106                   3            109          9         29            3              9
Exotica          40                       59                     40                   1                         18        15            2             17 
Total      794                    1,173                    800                  75           876          286                     72            301             100             201
Footnotes by column:
(1) Production estisates as now foreseen with existing investment plans.
(2) Valued at estimated 1976 prices.
(3) (1) x (N).
(4) Cash Costs: Based upon the 1975 operations, adjusted for increased capacity, and improved operational control.
(5) Estimated for 1975 on basis of fixed assets, adjusted annually for equipment replacement and new investment, allowing 15% annual inflation rate.
(6) (4*) + (5).
(7) (3) - (6).
(e) Tax rates as negotiated with the private companies before nationalization and maintained after nationalization.
(9) (7) + (5) - (8).
(10) Very preliminary estimates based upon debt schedules, results of negotiation with Cerro Corporation, Anaconda, and Eennecott.
Source:  CODELCO and mission estimates.                                                                                                                                                                 j1



Table 7
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
COPPER PRODUCTION OF THE GRAN MINERIA (1974)
(Actual versus Programmed)
(tons of fine copper)
CHUQUICAMATA               EXOTICA                SALVADOR                 ANDINA                 TENIENTE                  TOTAL                VARIATION
MONTH          Actual    Progr.        Actual    Progr.        Actual    Progr.        Actual    Progr.        Actual    Progr.         Actual    Progr.        Actual/Progr.
January        26,273    24,465         3,616      4,280        7,011      6,796        6,373      5,224        16,787    15,065        60,060    55,830             107.6
February       24,156    23,621         2,989      3,951        6,764      6,140        5,881      4,876        15,058    12,736        54,848    51,324             106.9
March          26,867    25,930         3,134      4,280        7,451      6,796         5,959     5,400        18,530    17,012        61,941    59,418             104.2
April          26,871    25,093          3,416     3,797        7,370      6,596         5,449     5,224        20,860    20,425        63,966    61,135             104.6
May            31,607    27,430         2,292      3,413        7,089      6,796        5,989      5,400        18,046    16,792        65,023    59,831             108.7
June           28,005    27,672         3,164      3,073        5,939      6,596        5,545      5,803        19,667    19,154        62,320    62,298             100.0
July           33,567    29,882         2,786      3,280        6,200      6,796        4,105      6,025        22,157    22,619        68,815    68,602             100.3
August         34,502    30,231          1,789     3,240         6,206     6,796         5,818     5,803        23,132    23,196        71,447    69,266             103.1
September      31,111    26,884         2,595      2,430        6,444      6,597        5,253      5,358        15,091    17,332        60,494    53,601             103.2
October        33,114    31,905         2,330      3,647        6,257      6,690         6,347     6,025        16,862    20,398        64,910    68,665              94.5
November       30,575    29,534         2,432      3,073        6,359      7,047        5,872      5,803        19,601    19,774        64.839    65,231              99.3
December       30.142    29.988         1.644      3.182        7,257      6,693        5.789      5,803        19,801    19,200        64,633    64,866              99.6
TOTAL         356,790   332,635        32,187    41,646        80,347    80,339        68,380    66,744       225,592   223,703        763,296   745,067             102.4
Variation
Actual/Programmed    107.3                    77.3                    100.0                   102.5                  100.8                    102.4
SOURCE: CODELCO
September 1975
A1'



Table 8
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
MOLYBDENUM PRODUCTION FOR THE GRAN MINERIA (1974)
(Metric Tons)
CHUQUICAMATA                               SALVADOR                                TENIENTE                               TOTAL
MONTH       Concentrate   Grade    Fine Mo          Concentrate   Grade    Fine Mo           Concentrate   Grade    Fine Mo          Concentrate   Fine Mo
January           460      54.93       253                186       57.49       107               274       57.71       158                920         518
February          973      54.23       528                207       57.26       119               387       57.54       223              1,567         870
March             918       55.06       505               218       57.16       125               404       56.54       228              1,540         858
April             760       53.84       409               189       57.01       108               311       59.25       184              1,260         701
May               723       54.45       394               217       57.39       125               266       56.87       151              1,206         670
June              694      54.06       375                218       56.94       124               273       56.49       154              1,185         653
July            1,054      54.74       577                209       56.98       119               271       56.88       154              1,534         850
August          1,064       54.50       580               271       56.88       154               331       56.05       186              1,666         920
September         975      55.22       539                170      56.90         97               311       56.14       1,S              1,456         811
October         1,164       54.06       629               163       56.91        93               363       56.72       206              1,690         928
November        1,164       55.06       641               185       56.87       105               368       56.63       208              1,717         954
December (*)      697      55.19       385                201       56.87       114               324       55.00       178              1.222         677
TOTAL (*)      10,646      54.62    5,815               2,434       57.11    1,390              3,883       56.78    2,205              16,963       9,410
flRlgcE: CODELCO
Industrial Projects Deportment
SProtemnber 1975



ANNEX 2-4
Page 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE MINERIA (ENAMI)
A.   Formation and Present Legal Statutes
1.        The National Mining Company (ENAMI) was established on February 29,
1960, under Decree 153 by a merger of two government entities, the Mining
Development and Credit Fund (CCFM) and the National Smelting Company (ENF).
The CCFM had been functioning as a state-owned technical agency since 1927,
when it was set up, and its primary role had been to organize and coordinate
various activities related to the development of Chile's mineral activities,
including the sale of such minerals. The ENF, established in 1955, was formed
from the Paipote Smelting Company, with responsibility for not only administer--
ing and expanding the Paipote smelting operation but also for the develop-
ment of new smelting and refining operations, including treatment plants.
2.        Decree 153 established ENAMI as an autonomous state-owned enter-
prise which is governed by the articles of the above decree and by the reso-
lutions of its Board of Directors. These legal articles define the functions,
social objectives, and guidelines for the financial and administrative operat-
ing procedures. The legal representative of ENAMI is its Executive Vice
President who is also the managerial head of the Company.
B.   Organization
3.        ENAMI's structural organization, as established in 1960, has been
subject to several modifications since that date. The senior management of
the Company was in the hands of its Board which consisted of seven members,
the majority of them either high-level executives of Chile's public sector
agencies or direct appointees of Chile's President. The Minister of Mines
was the Chairman of the Board. For a brief period after the change in gov-
ernment on September 11, 1973, the primary responsibilities of the Board
were carried out by the Executive Vice-President and an advisory council
consisting of ENAMI's senior management. The Board has now been reactivated.
Directly under the Executive Vice-President is ENAMII's General Manager who is
entrusted with the administrative responsibility for ENAMI's principal de-
partments: Mining, Operations, Purchases and Sales, Finance and Personnel.
The organizational structure is summarized in Chart I.
C.   Staffing
4.        Like the Gran Mineria, ENAMI suffered a significant loss of quali-
fied engineering staff in the period 1971-73 both from its central Santiago
office and from its principal operational plants. This situation has served
only to aggravate the severe staffing problems that ENAMI has continually had.



ANNEX 2-4t
Page 2
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE MINERIA
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
VICE PRESIDENT
AUDITING    -LEGAL
PLANNING
SAFETY                               GENERAL
SECRETARY
__  PUBLIC RELATIONS
GEI ERA L
MANAGER
MINING OPERA-                                             COMMERCIAL
TIONS MANAGER          PLANT           ENGIIEERING          MANAGER            PERSONNEL
(Development, Produc-  OPERATIONS          MANAGER         (Supplies, Purchases,  MANAGER
tion, Engineering,    MANAGER                             SlsadFnne
Creditl)l                                             Sales and FWnance)
World Bank-9739



ANNEX 2-4
Page 3
CODELCO's larger mining operations have been able to attract preferentially
the better qualified engineers from Chilean universities by offering higher
salaries, superior living conditions and a more challenging professional
career. There has also been an alarming exodus of experienced engineers
from ENAMI to the large copper mines since January 1974 due primarily to
large salary differentials between ENAMI and these companies; with the guide-
lines for future salary increases having been clarified, this trend has been
checked. The most important of ENAMI's operational plants, however, the
smelter and refinery at Ventanas--has been able to maintain both experienced
management and high-quality engineers for the plant. This had been primarily
a result of its choice location and because the smelting and refining operation
is the most modern and best run in Chile. Many of the young operational en-
gineers who subsequently worked at the Chuquicamata, Salvador and El Teniente
smelter operations have done a period of "apprenticeship" at the Ventanas
smelter.
5.        ENAMI's senior management is experienced and competent but its sup-
port staff is thin. A new Executive Vice-President was appointed in September
1974 to replace the former one who was appointed after the change in govern-
ment. These appointees have neither technical nor financial experience in
the mining industry. They have depended for their advice on the senior man-
agers of ENAMI's major departments, individuals of long-standing experience
in the company. At lower levels there is a lack of qualified people to assist
in production planning and control, investment planning, and project prepara-
tion and evaluation. ENAMI's total staff for all its operations is 4,600 of
which approximately 3,000 are nonprofessional workers in ENAMI's operations.
The Ventanas operation employs 1,500.
D.   Description of Operations
6.        The major functions of ENAMI in the copper sector are:
(i) the development of the small and medium mining sector in
Chile by providing credit to mining operations, the rental
or sale of mining equipment and machinery and extending
technical assistance and training to mining cooperatives
and small and medium size producers (the credit operations
have been recently suspended);
(ii) the purchase of mineral ore or partially-treated ore from
small and medium-sized producers for further treatment,
and
(iii) the operation and administration of its own treatment plants,
smelting operations and refineries to further process mineral
purchased from the small and medium mining sector as well as
semi-processed copper--usually concentrates, precipitates or
blister--received from the large mining operations.



ANNEX 2-4
Page 4
Although ENAMI has jurisdiction over all minerals, in practice its activities
are confined to the copper sector; a small volume of by-products (gold,
silver, selenium, tellurium and others) are recovered from the anodic slimes
of the Ventanas refining operation. At the end of 1971, ENAMI had twenty-one
mineral purchasing agencies, eight treatment plants, two smelters (at Paipote
and Ventanas) and one refinery (at Ventanas). Between 1971 and 1973 ENAMI
became increasingly involved in the operation of small and medium sized mining
companies that came under state control but this will eventually be transferred
to the private sector. A more detailed description of ENAMI's current oper-
ations now follows:
1.   Ventanas Smelter and Refinery
The smelter and refinery are located approximately 50 kms
to the north of Valparaiso on the Chilean coast. The total
smelting capacity of the plant is 234,000 MT of charge per
year as concentrates, precipitates or ores which can be fused
directly (60,000 MT/year of fine copper), and 100,000 MT of
electrolytically refined copper per year. Present expansion
plans contemplate increasing these capacities to 720,000 MT
and 140,000 MT, the latter increasing to 200,000 MT in a sub-
sequent stage.
Ventanas is a modern conventional smelter which was originally
designed to produce 3,000 tons/month of copper. To increase
the capacity at the reverbatory furnace a third waste heat
boiler is being added. Ventanas is planning to add a flash
furnace and two 13' x 13' converters. The smelter is well
located close to a port with adequate dock facilities.
2.   Paipote Smelter
This is a custom smelter for the small mines in this
region of Chile. It is located close to Copiapo, the
provin cial capital of the Atacama region. The actual
capacity of the plant is approximately 200,000 MT per
year of charge and 4,000 MT a month of blister plus
3,500 MT a month of sulphuric acid.
3.   Mineral Treatment Plants
ENAMI has various mineral treatment plants located close to
the mineral purchasing agencies in the northern mining areas
of the country. The ore for these plants is purchased from the
small mining producers in the region. The principal ones are:



ANNEX 2-4
Page 5
a)   Cabildo Plant (in Cabildo)
A flotation plant which started up in 1965 and which
has a capacity to treat 30,000 MT per month of ore.
The concentrates are sent to the Ventanas smelter.
b)   Illapel Plant (in Illapel)
A flotation plant which started operations in 1956 and
with a capacity to treat 12,000 MT per month of ore.
The concentrates are sent to the Ventanas smelter.
c)   Jose A. Moreno Plant (near Taltal)
This plant started operations in 1966 and has a capacity
to leach 9,000 MT per month of copper oxide ore. A
small proportion of the ore (consisting of a mixture of
oxide and sulphide) is subjected first to concentration
by flotation. The leached copper precipitates and the
sulphide concentrates are sent to the Paipote smelter.
d)   Rio Salado Plant
Located next to the Osvaldo Martinez plant (see f) on the
edge of the Rio Salado which carries away the tailings
from the concentrating plants at El Salvador mine. This
plant's only function is to recycle these tailings, pro-
ducing 400 TM of concentrate a month (110 TM of fine
copper) which is subsequently sent to the Paipote smelter.
e)   Manuel A. Matta Plant
Located close to the Paipote smelter, this flotation plant
started up in 1968 and has a capacity to treat 32,000 TM
per month of ore.
f)   Osvaldo Martinez Plant
Located 36 kms from the port of Chanaral on the railroad
between Pueblo Hundido and Chanaral. The major components
of the plant are:
(i) a flotation plant to treat 8,000 TM per month of
mineral ore;
(ii) a leaching plant to treat 3,000 TM per month of
mineral ore; and



ANNEX 2-4
Page 6
(iii) a sulphuric acid plant which produces 600 tons of
acid per month. Both the concentrates and precipi-
tates are sent to the Paipote smelter.
g)   Domeyko Plant (52 kms to south of Vallenar)
First installed in 1931 to treat gold containing mineral
ore. It has subsequently been modified and now treats
3,000 TM of ore per month by flotation. Concentrates are
sent to Paipote.
h)   President Pedro Aguirre Cerda Plant (s.e. of Copiapo)
Built in 1929, currently treats 8,500 TM per month of ore
by flotation, with concentrates being sent to Paipote.
i)   Vallenar Plant (SOCIEDAD VALLENAR)
Has a flotation plant, with a capacity to treat 7,500 MT
of ore a month, and a leaching plant, with the same capa-
city, which is currently being completed.
E.   Financial Position
7.        ENAMI's financial position in the period 1960-70 has been conditioned
by the responsibilities it has had in the development of the small and medium-
scale mining sector. In the past ENAMI's role had been different from that
of an autonomous State enterprise like the National Electricity Company (ENDESA)
or Petroleum Company (ENAP) which finance not only operating expenditures but
also part of their investment needs. However, ENAMI will now cover its own
operating expenditures and investment requirements. Its broader functions
of providing subsidized credit and technical assistance to the smaller mining
producers have shaped ENAMI in the role of a government mining agency as well
as that of government mining company. This duality of role has severely
affected ENAMI's past financial performance. As an important purchaser of
partially treated copper mineral produced by the small-scale mining industry,
it has had to provide sufficient incentives in terms of a guaranteed mineral
purchase price to sustain the sector, a policy in practice that has been
tantamount to a government subsidy. This large component of ENAMI's local
currency operating expenditures--the purchase of raw materials--has been the
primary reason for ENAMI incurring operating cost deficits and for its in-
creasing dependence on central government transfers to meet these deficits.
8.        ENAMI's financial position has been weak throughout the last decade
and fiscal contributions have formed a significant part of ENAMI's current
income. Instead of providing the incentives which would lead to increased
development of the sector, the methods for establishing the purchase price



ANNEX 2-4
Page 7
of ores and concentrates from the small miners have translated into excessive
profits for the more efficient producers and unwarranted subsidies for the
inefficient mining operations. Neither outcome had a beneficial effect on
ENAMI's financial position, much less on the development of the sector as a
whole. While it is true that government policy was concerned with sustaining
mining activities which provided a livelihood for a significant proportion
of Chile's labor force, it presented the government with an easy solution to
a delicate socio-economic problem and distracted it from examining viable
alternatives.
9.        Approximate estimates of ENAMI's smelting and refining unit produc-
tion costs for the Ventanas plant are summarized in Table 2. A comparison
of unit production costs from year to year should take into account several
factors. Conversion of these costs from nominal escudo terms to dollar
terms in 1971 and 1972 is misleading because of the overvalued exchange rate.
Thus, unit costs in cents per pound are somewhat higher for these years than
for subsequent years. At the same time, the pricing of key inputs--particu-
larly fuel--did not reflect their real cost in 1971 and 1972. By October
1973 the exchange rate began to reflect more accurately the real value of the
escudo. With the recent increase in prices, fuel has been increasingly an
important component of Ventana's unit production costs as reflected in the
1974 figures. Wages and salaries, which were a major component of unit costs
in 1971 and 1972, became relatively less important factors in the cost struc-
ture after 1973. Unit production costs for both the smelting and refining
operations in 1974 have averaged between 12-14A/lb., which is competitive
with production costs elsewhere.
10.       The primary factor in ENAMI's overall production costs has been
the purchase price paid for raw materials. For the reasons given above, a
translation of these expenditures into dollar terms is difficult. In 1973,
however, assuming the average annual exchange rate to be E'90=US$1.00, these
expenditures corresponded to about 904 per pound. Even allowing for probable
underestimation of the real exchange rate, these prices are extremely high,
considering the average price received by Chile in 1973 was only 75T/lb.,
for the sale of refined copper offhore.
11.       In 1971, as in the Gran Mineria, ENAMI's financial position deteri-
orated appreciably. Government policy established a differential exchange
rate for copper transactions--which bore no relation to the real cost of
production. Levels of inflation began to increase appreciably, leading to
increased wages and production costs. The Government's solution to ever-widening
operating deficits was both simple and deliberate. While making only marginal
adjustments to an artificially low exchange rate for copper, a line of credit
was opened with the Central Bank that in 1972 and 1973 (Table 1) covered 50
percent of ENAMI's operating costs. Operating deficits reached astronomical
proportions by 1973 in an environment in which financial performance ceased
to have any meaning.



ANNEX 2-4
Page 8
12.       On December 31, 1974, the Minister of Finance established a new
tariff policy designed to reduce marketly ENAMI's dependence on fiscal trans-
fers. The main features of the new policy are:
(a) the price paid to the small and medium miners for
their ores and concentrates is based on the average
price of copper (in cents per pound) for the pre-
vious month instead of the previous year, provided
this price fluctuates between 71 and 90 cents per
pound;
(b) when the average monthly price falls below 711 a
subsidy up to a maximum of 61 would be paid;
(c) if the average price rises over 901, payments to
the producers would be limited to the 90i figure
with the "excess" being used to form a stabiliza-
tion fund designed to permit paying subsidies in
cases of the price again falling below 71k; and
(d) in determining the purchase price of mineral ores
and concentrates, processing charges are to be
subtracted which will reflect the real costs of
smelting and refining in ENAMI's plants.
13.       This tariff policy has been in effect since January 1975; the price
range is to be modified correspondingly in the light of future variations in
production costs. Considerable progress has thus already been made to im-
prove ENAMI's financial position.



saute 1
CHILE; COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS FOR EMPRESA NACIONAL DE MINERIA
INC0ME STATEMEiNTS (1968-1973)
1968                      1969                       1970                       1971                      1972                         1973                        1974
Current    Capital        Curn1aia                   Curret    Capital          Current    Capital        Current    capital          Current    Capital          Current    Ctanirsi
A.  Fures Currency  (UHS million)
1.  Source of Funds                                             52.7          6.9          87.3         9.6           95.9        13.7           65.2        10.9          63.8          3.0           95.8          2.95        163.3          4.74
Sales Revenue                                            (45.4)         -          ((78.4)                    (82.8)                    ((60.3)                     (61.7)                      (533)           -         (142.0)
Other Revenue (primary fiscal contribution)              ( 7.3)       (6.9)         ( 8.9)                    (13.1)                     ( 4.9)                     ( 2.1)                      ( 0.3)                    ( 21.3)
2. Application of Funds
a)  Operations                                              52.7                       87.3                       95.9                      65.2                       63.8                       925.8                      163.3
Materiale und supply, services                       ( 3.4)                    ( 4.1)                     ( 1.9)                     ( 2.0)                     ( 2.4)                      (  .O)                   (  2.1)
Local currency current budget trans-fe               (41.9)                     (74.6)                    (83.1)                     (63.1)                     (61.2)                      (94.7)                    (161.2)
Other                                                ( 7.2)                    ( 8.6)                     (10.9)                     ( 0.1)                     ( 0.2)                      ( 0.1)
b)  Investment                                                            1.9                       4,8                        1.2                        2.6                        1.8                         1.46                       1.76
c)  A-ortieation                                                         5.0                        4.8                        6.6                       6.8
d)  Other                                                                                                                      5.9                        1.5                        1.2                         1.49                       2.98
Total Applications                                    52.7         6.9                        9.6                      13.7                       10.9                        3.0            92.2         2.95                       4.74
B. Local Currency (in millios Es-udos) 1/
1.  Sorce of Funds                                             518.7         46.5         823.4       115.1        1,249.5       162.6        1.953.0       207.0        3.697         435.2       19.961       3.424         149,524    14,175
Fiscal Costributios                                       25.8       (29.6)        ( 18.8)      (51.3)         (23.1)      (69.0)        (152.9)   (108.5)        (  195)      (138.5)      (   800)    (  809)       (   -   )  (  -
Soles                                                    (20.3)          -         ( 54.5)         -           (67.3)         -          ( 94.5)         -        (  486)                   ( 3,337)                   ( 21,652)
Foreign currency current budget transfer                (419.5)      ( 6.3)        (672.7)                 (1,141.1)                     (840.0)                  (1,083)                   (11,278)     ( 239) b/  (125 147)  ( 9,688)
Other (Loan repaymestu, interest, dividends,             (53.1)      (10.6)        ( 77.4)      (63.9)     (   18.0)       (93.6)           44.0)      98.5)         857)       23.6        ( 143        (I.2248)     (  2,725)  ( 4,487)
depreciurion) 2/                                                                                                                 (821.6)-                                7.           4,403
2. Applicatius of Funds
a)  Operations                                             518.7                      823.4                   1,249.5                     1953 0                     3,697                     19,961                     149524
Salaries.                                           ( 64.4)                   (105.0)                  (  171.2)                     (243.0)                 (  658)                   ( 2,706)                   ( 23,347)
Ras Materias-  uervices, etc.                       (376.5)                   (579.6)                  (  865.9)                     (924.0)                 (2,017)                   (14,511)                   (112,024)
Cu.rrent transfers (Social security,
depreciation, etc.)                                ( 31.5)                   ( 55.8)                  (  119.7)                     (230.4)/                (200.4 d/                 (   560)                   (    120)
Others                                              ( 46.3)                   ( 83.0)                  (   92.7)                     (555.6)-                (821.6)-                  ( 2,684)                   ( 14,023
b)  Investment                                                            19.4                      55.8                      92.5                       84.8                       170.4                   1,439                      8,303
c)  Loans                                                                 19.9                      41.4                      54.6                      97.4                        245.5                   1,930                      3,871
d)  Aoortization                                                           7.2                      17.9                      15.5                       18.7                        18.7                       36                       289
e)  Other                                                                                                                                                 6.1                         0.6                       19                     1,712
Tortl Applicotions                                   518.7         46.5        823.4         115.1      1,249.5       162.6         1,953.0      207.0       3,697           435.2      19,961        3424                     14,175
1/ Eschange REtcs:  1968/69:  us$-eS9.88; 1969/70/71:  US$-E'12.21; 1971/72:  US$-EO25.0; 1971973!  DS$'E°88.8: 1974:  US$.E°831.
2/ In tho ENAMI incoe statonem t, depreciation app-acs an current eupendit-re in local -crrelecy, and as source of ftunds cder capital.
3/ Correuponds to copper ni-eral p-rchasing price from small- and medium-sized nie.
al  Central Bask Credit.
6/  Esoedente do Presupuesto Corriente.                                                                                                                                                                                                                      x
c/  Serviclo Vests Anticidada Banco Control.
d/  Banco Central Aoortiracion Linea.
September 1975



ANNEX 2-4
Page 10
Table 2
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
ENAMI - PRODUCTION COSTS - VENTANAS
1971     1972     1973     197.
Average Average Average Average
SMELTER
Total charge smelted (metric tons/mnonth)      16,320   17,854   16,517   17,602
Recovery (%)                                   94.77    96.5     95.3      95.6
Total blister production (MT/mionth)            3,464   4,824    4,649   4,958
Total cost per ton blister
EO/ton                                        1,392    2,431   11,211  125,681
US$/ton                                     112.2    135.6    205       154.6
US//pound                                     5        6.1      9.3       7
Major cost components (as % of total)
Fuel                                         10.2      9.2      6.8      37.3
Wages and salaries                           43.0     53.5     47.8      26.6
Depreciation                                 14.6     10.8      9.0     10.0
Electrical energy                             5.5      4.6       3.5      3.7
REFINERY
Anode production (MT/mnonth)                    9,875   11,079   11,302   11,42
Cathode production (MT/mnonth)                  7,572    8,808    8,379    8,628
Wirebar production (MT/month)                   6,606    8,203    7,999    8,570
Total cost per ton wirebar
EO/ton                                        1,436    2,028    8,897   91,793
US$/ton                                     115.9    127.4    177.8    115.3
US//pound                                     5.3      5.8      8.1       5.2
Major cost components (as % of total)
Fuel                                          7.4      4.3      4.4     26.4
Wages and salaries                           48.4     58.4     51.8     34.0
Depreciation                                 12.1      8.9      7.8     10.0
Electrical energy                             9.5      7.5      6.o      8.6
E01 .  = US$1.0    1971
E020      US$1.0    1972
E0340   = US$1.0   1973
EO      = US$1.0    1974
Industrial Projects Department
September 1975



ANNEX 2-4
Page 11
Table 3
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECi
ENAMI - BALANCE SHEETS
(million current Escudos, E°)
Fiscal Year (Julv-June)              1968      1969     1970    1971    1972       1973      1974 /7
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash -1                           4.1     13.7    198.6    59.3    59.9    495.1   11,368
Receivables j                    79.4    117.2    192.0   323.0   566.1  1,141.7   86,618
Inventories                     377.7    321.2    654.4   800.4   889.   1 561.9    4.985
Subtotal                     761.2     5277   1,045.0 1,182.7 1,515.1  4,19.7  252,971
Other Assets
Fiscal Contribution  /           17.4     44.1      41.8   107.5   445.6  2,478.0       -
Investments (Shares, bonds,
etc.)                            5.1      9.1      23.9    38.0    78.9    927.2   33,876
Other  /                        153.5    224.6    344.8   606.8   911.6  5,655.o   72,178
Subtotal                     1767      7U7757   75     1,4T261  9,060.2  106,055
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets              539.2    763.5  1,038.8 1,111.0 1,613.6  6,906.1  219,369
Less Depreciation                76.o    142.2    216.3   285.3   333.8  2,126.6   68.52
Net Fixed Assets             463.2    ;77 7    82T2.    825.7 T1,779.   4,779.5  150,846
TOTAL ASSETS                      1,100.4  1,351.2  2,278.0 2,760.7 4,221.0 18,038.4  509.870
LIABIILITIES AND CAPITAL
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                117.7    172.8    306.4   394.8   399.8  3,389.4   98,289
Debts with Central Bank        140.5    153.4    358.3   616.0 1,313.1  5,217.0   21,338
Debts with Other Banks            2.4      2.6      62.1    58.7    59.8       14.4     -
Subtotal                     a75    375    7 =25 1,069.5 1,972.7  o,620 8              19,627
Lon  Term Debt                    236.1    257.3    285.7   252.9   379.6  2,496.5   57,425
Other Obligations  /            155.4     77.0    277.1   234.7   341.8  2,807.9          37
Capital and Reserves 6            448.3    686.1    988.4 1,203.6 1,526.9  4,113.2  332,781
TOTAL LIABILTTIES AND CAPITAL   1,100.4  1,351.2  2,278.0 2,760.7 4,221.0 16,038.4  509.870
Debt/Equity Ratio               47:53    33:67    36:64   29:71   32:68    56:44    15:85
j In both domestic and foreign currency.
I/ Primarily credit to small mining producers; includes delinquencies  (5-7%)
3/ For capital biudget, housing; in 1972 includes fiscal transfer to current
budget.
4  Includes construction works in progress, deferred costs.
Includes workerstbenefits, social security and various other provisions.
/ Includes fist al contributions (1968-72).
7/ For 1974 period covered is July 1, 1973-December 31, 1974; subsequent fiscal years
will cover period January-December.
Industrial Projects Department
September 1975



ANNEX 2-5
Page 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
CONTRIBUTION OF THE COPPER SECTOR TO THE CHILEAN ECONOMY
A.   Value of Production
1.        The copper mining industry makes available to the Chilean economy
a certain volume of resources which are potentially convertible into both
consumer and capital goods. The total amount of resources generated direct-
ly by the sector -- the so-called gross availability effect--is measured by
the total value of copper production. This in turn depends on three key
elements: the sales price of copper, total physical output, and the product
mix of copper output.
2.        At the beginning of the 1955-64 period the value of production
started to increase compared with the period 1940-54 and a yearly average in
constant 1961 prices of $310 million was maintained. Nevertheless, in terms
of output, 1960 production was only slightly higher than 1944 and even in 1964
only 15 percent higher. Gran Mineria production stagnated from 1960-64 and
provided added impetus for the Government to reach an agreement with the
foreign-owned companies to formulate a long-term development strategy for the
sector.
3.        After 1965, an expansion program for the Gran Mineria was agreed
upon which was to increase copper output from 476,000 MT in 1965 to 880,000 MT
after 1971. Although the planned for output increase has not been achieved,
output did increase to over 600,000 MT by 1973 and 760,000 MT in 1974. The
value of export sales (an approximate measure of the value of production since
less than 5 percent of copper production represents domestic sales) climbed
from US$363 million in 1964 (61 percent of total exports) to $1,088 million
(82 percent of total exports) in 1973 and to more than US$1,500 million in
1974. Marked variations occurred in this period reflecting the fluctuations
of world copper prices rather than changes in copper output. Export sales
in 1972, for instance, amounted to only US$658 million even though output
was only 4 percent less than in 1973. The product mix of copper output has
also changed considerably since 1960, increasing the value of exported
copper. In the early 1960's the proportion of refined copper from the Gran
Mineria was 45-50 percent of the total but this percentage had increased
to 65 percent in the early 1970's. A similar increase in refining capacity
took place in the small- and medium-scale sector.
4.        Copper exports from the Gran Mineria averaged about 8 percent of
GNP in the period 1952-71. In specific years this average fluctuated appre-
ciably: 5.6 percent in 1953 due to difficulties in selling copper; 6.4
percent and 5.2 percent in 1957 and 1958 due to extremely low copper prices;



ANNEX 2-5
Page 2
over 9.5 percent in 1955, 1956 and 1969 due to high copper prices. These
fluctuations were reflected in Chile's total exports since copper produc-
tion from the Gran Mineria represented the primary export commodity. In
summary, the copper sector has a dominant influence within the Chilean
economy as the single most important contributor to exports.
B.   Resource Availability
5.        Up until the Chileanization program, government strategy aimed
primarily at maximization of foreign exchange and tax revenues on current
production. Its thikking has been short-term in character and has generally
disregarded the longer-term impact of increased investment levels on foreign
exchange and tax revenues.
(i) Foreign Exchange Contribution
6.        Chile's foreign exchange earnings and balance of payments situa-
tion continue to be extremely dependent on world copper prices. Although
the Government can stimulate production it can only influence the price at
which copper is sold to a limited extent. A difference of only one cent in
the copper price at current output would be reflected in a difference of
foreign-exchange earnings of about $18 million. As copper output increases
this effect will become more marked, affecting Chile's national income,  AtF
import capacity and its ability to service external debt.
7.        Each of the three factors--output, price and product mix--have con-
tributed to increasing the value of copper exports, as indicated in paragraph
3. Prices still continue to be the major determinant of export value, however.
Price stability has been a sought after goal of the Government's commer-
cialization policy although one which the Government has had less influence
in controlling. While government strategy has been successful in making
Chile less dependent on the United States by enlarging the share of copper
exports sold on the London Metal Exchange, it has not been successful in
stabilizing what continues to be primarily a market-dictated world copper
price. In 1965 copper exports amounted to $429 million (output: 479,000 MT)
1/   The foreign exchange contribution can be considered from two viewpoints,
the gross contribution as measured by the value of total copper exports
and the net contribution which includes, in addition, the foreign and
local components of the copper sector's expenditures. The foreign com-
ponent would include repatriated profits of the foreign-owned companies,
interest payments and expenditures outside of Chile whereas the local
component includes expenditures made in Chile, wages to Chilean miners
and investment expenditures. Although the Government's real concern
should be with the net foreign exchange contribution, an analysis of this
subject is complex and has had little importance so far in the develop-
ment of copper sector policies.



ANNEX 2-5
Page 3
and increased to $926 million (output: 540,000 MT) in 1969, during a period
of exceptionally high copper prices. After 1969, only in 1973 and 1974-- other
years of high copper prices--was the 1969 value of copper exports exceeded.
Table 1 summarizes the gross foreign exchange contribution of copper exports
1964-73 as well as indicating its increasing share of total exports during
this period. Copper exports are expected to maintain a 75% share of export
revenue to 1980.
(ii) Government-Revenue Contribution
8.        The Government revenue contribution has consisted of two components,
an explicit component involving several taxes paid directly to the Govern-
ment--primarily income taxes and surtaxes--and an implicit component involving
revenue derived from an overvalued exchange-rate for copper transactions.
Copper tax revenues have always been an important source of government re-
venue and have become increasingly important since 1952. At the same time
the sharp and unpredictable copper price variations have exerted severe
repercussions on the Government's budget and have been an important reason
for the state of permanent crisis of Chile's public finances. In 1955, for
example, the Central Government received $58 million in revenue from copper
surtaxes; in 1958 taxes fell by approximately the same amount. Similar
fluctuations were experienced in subsequent years.
9.        The different and changing tax regulations which have been levied
on the copper industry (see Annex 2-6, for full discussion of Fiscal Policy
Development) have had important implications on both the volume and stability
of copper revenues. At the same time, as gross revenues increased, their
sensitivity to changes in output, but more especially to erratic price
fluctuations, also increased. With the nationalization of the industry in
1971 tax revenues became even more dependent on copper price fluctuations.
Fiscal revenues from copper currently provide about a third of government
revenue (estimated to be over 7 percent of GDP in 1974), more than twice
the 1969-70 leveL. This extreme dependency on the vicissitudes of the world
copper market demands a corresponding modification of government fiscal
policy. It is essential that policies are adopted which will utilize the
windfall revenues generated at times of high prices to cover budget needs
when prices fall. It is equally important that the government refrains
from its past inclination of financing current expenditures with these wind-
falls but instead diverts these "excess" revenues for capital investment to
diversify Chile's productive capacity outside of the copper sector.
10.       Tax payments by the foreign-owned companies during the period
1930-39 were generally low--on the average only 5.8 percent of the value
of production, and only about 25 percent of the average annual outflow of
repatriated profits. After 1939 taxes paid to Chile as a percentage of the
value of production increased from 11.5 percent in 1939 to 14.0 percent in
1940, 22.6 percent in 1948, 49.9 percent in 1952 and had risen to 63.5



ANNEX 2-5
Page 4
percent by 1953. Although in subsequent years annual revenue contribu-
tion in nominal terms was well in excess of previous values, it represented
only between 25-30 percent of total value output. The contribution of
copper revenues to total tax revenues between 1952-70 is shown in the
following table:
Tax Revenues of the Gran Mineria
Year                                 as Percentage of total Government Revenues /1
1952                                                        41.4
1953                                                        30.6
1954                                                        30.7
1955                                                        48.2
1956                                                        34.5
1957                                                        17.3
1958                                                        12.8
1959                                                        18.9
1960                                                        16.4
1961                                                        12.5
1962                                                        13.0
1963                                                        14.9
1964                                                        19.3
1965                                                        16.5
1966                                                        21.8
1967      Chile gained 51% ownership in El Teniente         18.7
1968                                                        16.8
1969      Chile gained 51% ownership in El Salvador
and Chuquicamata                               26.7
1970                                                        18.7
Average                                                     22.6
/1   Direct taxes, does not include implicit taxes from artificial exchange
rate.
Source:   Importancia del Cobre en la Economia Chilena taken from "El Cobre
en el Desarrollo Nacional."



ANNEX 2-5
Page 5
Table 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
COPPER EXPORTS AND TOTAL EXPORTS
(in million of US dollars)
Copper Exports Share
Total Copper          in Total Exports
Year        Total Exports (fob)              Exports                 (percent)
ACTUAL
1964                 592                       363                      61
1965                 684                       429                      63
1966                 866                       599                      69
1967                 873                       651                      75
1968                 911                       684                      75
1969               1,172                       926                      79
1970               1,112                       840                      76
1971                 985                       690                      70
1972                 858                       658                      77
1973              1,323                      1,088                      82
1974              2,043                      1,557                     76
1/
PROJECTED
1975              1,578                        970                     61
1976              2,162                      1,489                     69
1977              2,651                      1,927                     73
1978              3,052                      2,215                     73
1979              3,428                      2,447                     72
1980              3,725                      2,712                     73
1/  Using copper price projections of copper IKE price for the years 1975 to 1980
inclusive.
Source: Central Bank of Chile; IBRD Projections.
December 1975



ANNEX 2-5
Page 6
11.       The implicit component of the copper sector's tax contribution,
i.e., an overvalued foreign exchange rate, was an important factor in
determining growth not only of the sector but also of Chile's national
income. The differential foreign-exchange rate was used as an effective
discriminatory device against the companies to control inflation and obtain
a larger resource release for the country. The overall long-term effect
was a supression of the mining sector and of economic growth. Chile's
copper output during the last two decades grew at an annual rate of 2 per-
cent while world production increased at double this rate. The net effect
was a reduction of profits forcing the Government to impose more taxes to
maintain the sector's total explicit tax contribution. The implicit taxes
were all too often translated into direct subsidies to importers who pur-
chased foreign-exchange at less than real value. Since the Government was
unable to efficiently control the allocation of foreign-exchange the new
benefactors of the policy were the importers and the overall impact of
the policy has proved detrimental to economic growth. This long-term
effect of this policy did not lead to an increase in revenue generated by
the Gran Mineria and the repercussions of adopting such a policy were not
anticipated: a reduction in the use of Chilean inputs, and a disincentive
to increasing the labor component of production costs or making further
investment.
12.       After more than a decade using only a single exchange rate, the
use of a differential exchange rate was reintroduced after nationalization
of the industry in 1971. Clearly, the objective was no longer one of ensuring
a maximum return to Chile of the sector's foreign-exchange earnings. One
objective of this policy was to divert a portion of the revenues generated by
the copper industry from the Treasury to the Central Bank. However, once
again it had the effect of encouraging the use of imported inputs which in-
creased substantially between 1971-73. It also proved to be an inefficient
tool in controlling Gran 'fineria expenditures in local currency. In August
1974 this exchange rate system, equi-valent to an export tax, was abolished
and replaced by a more efficiently-designed tax policy on the Gran Mineria
copper operations.
C.   Direct Employment Effect
13.       After the virtual collapse of the nitrate industry in the early
1930's copper became Chile's major export commodity. Besides providing a
major portion of Chile's foreign-exclhange requirements, the nitrate industry
had employed a significant proportion of Chile's labor force. The nitrate
boom had given rise to a labor shortage within Chile as a whole and to
labor migration from other sectors. The copper industry only in part, how-
ever, replaced the nitrate industry as a major source of employment. In the
early phases of copper mining development labor employment was relatively
high in the industry. The total work force in the copper industry had
reached 20,000 by 1940 and increased to almost 25,000 by 1943. Since then
employment declined sharply to less than 15,000 in 1955. This was a period



ANNEX 2-5
Page 7
of low levels of copper investment and high taxes, and a period in which
labor was discriminated against in favor of capital as a consequence of
rising labor costs. Total employment increased after 1955. The following
table summarizes the major employment trends since 1960:
Employment in the Gran Mineria
Years                                     Employment
1961-63                                     18,198
1964-66                                     19,100
1967-69                                     21,700
1970-71                                     24,156
Up to 1966, the Government did not have an employment policy for the large-
scale mining industry and there is little evidence it appreciated the impact
of high copper taxes on employment. Furthermore, a combination of an over-
valued exchange rate, salary policies and duty-free import of capital goods,
had the overall effect of discouraging an increase in the work-force and,
as a consequence, the foreign-exchange contribution to the country. The
Chilean large-scale copper mining industry is capital- rather than labor-
intensive and has been significantly input-saving over time. This trend is
likely to continue. Over the last two decades there has been a modest increase
in the work force accompanied by markedly larger increases in wage levels.
This has meant an increase in the foreign exchange "'returned" to Chile in
order to cover wage costs. In 1970 these expenditures corresponded to 40
percent of total production costs, or $150 million in absolute terms.
14.       While the medium-scale mining sector has also become increasing-
ly capital-intensive since 1960--by 1971 the five major producers employed
slightly over 4,000--the small-scale mining sector continues to play an
important role as a source of employment for Chile's labor force. It was
estimated that in 1970-71 approximately 10,000 people were employed in
these mining operations. Although the Government is aware of the in-
efficient production methods of these small-scale operations, the problem
of absorbing this work-force into more productive economic activities out-
side of the small-scale mining sector remains.
D.   Domestic Demand Contribution
15.       The input requirements and overall growth of the copper sector
have had a measurable impact on output, investment and productivity of the
other sectors of the economy. One major contribution can be recognized,
which has had an effect on overall economic growth: the expansion of the
market for Chilean goods. Market expansion has been reflected by increased
demand for other sector products derived principally from payments to factors



ANNEX 2-5
Page 8
of production as well as the copper sector's demand for intermediate goods.
This contribution has been of considerable significance to the economic well-
being of the Norte Grande and O'Higgins provinces of Chile, for instance,
which have been largely sustained by factor payments and demand for inter-
mediate goods.
Industrial Project Department
April 1975



ANNEX 2-6
Page I
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
POLICIES OF THE COPPER SECTOR
A.   The Development of Fiscal Policy in the Copper Mining Sector
1.        Taxation policy has for a long time been a critical element in
determining the proportion of foreign-exchange returned to Chilean Government
by the copper mining industry. It has been a key factor also in determining
investment levels in the sector throughout the period of foreign ownership
of the industry, as well as a bargaining point between the Government and
the foreign companies in negotiating agreements related to ownership, state
involvement in the sector and the provision of adequate investment incentives.
Taxation policy has had a decisive role in influencing the volume of external
resources available to the country and has had a significant impact on
Chile's economic development.
2.        In the early part of the century, taxation rates on the copper
industry were extremely low and had little impact in providing Chile with
foreign exchange. Only in 1925 was a special income tax on copper mining
introduced and not before 1930 was the level of taxation at all substantial.
In the period 1925-32 the investment climate was characterized by free trade
in copper, free conversion of foreign exchange and the same taxation regu-
lations for both foreign and Chilean producers. A profits tax on the Gran
Mineria, which had been introduced in 1925, was raised from 12 to 18 percent
in 1934 but nothing approaching a national taxation policy emerged until
the late 1930's. In 1932 exchange control was introduced which required
that a portion of the foreign companies' operating costs be paid in local
currency purchased at a differential rate. This measure, tantamount to an
effective tax on the Gran Mineria, was staunchly resisted by the foreign
companies and was to have severe repercussions on the development of the
sector in subsequent decades.
3.        The emergence of the first vestiges of a national fiscal policy
dates from 1939 when the development activities of the Corporacion de
Fomento de la Produccion (CORFO) were financed with an additional 15 percent
tax on profits, raising the total tax on profits to 33 percent. In 1942
a new tax regulation was introduced which was to foreshadow the application
of an "excess price" tax, or surtax, in subsequent years until 1955. This
tax of 50 percent was imposed on profits and was temporarily raised to 60
percent in 1947. By 1954 the effective tax on foreign-owned companies had
increased to 80 percent of net profit, one of the highest in the world.
4.        The Government's objective in this period was to maximize revenue
per pound of copper over the short-term rather than the "aggregate retained
value" from copper for the country over the long-term. A consequence of the



ANNEX 2-6
Page 2
high taxation laws and the differential exchange policy was that local ex-
penditures were kept to a regulation minimum since imports were substantially
cheaper than the same products acquired locally. The high taxation provided
no tangible benefits to Chile but had the overall effect of hurting the
country as much as the foreign-owned companies. There is considerable evi-
dence that a combination of these policies retarded foreign investment in
the mining sector in Chile, with the foreign companies deciding to expand
mines of lower grade ores in the United States rather than increase output and
investment in Chile.
5.        The New Treatment Law of May 1955 marked the beginning of a period
of taxation policy fundamentally different from that which had existed before-
hand. The inspiration behind the new law was an awareness that Chilean copper
output had been stagnating for a long period and that the development poten-
tial of the sector had not been achieved, primarily as a result of inappro-
priate policies. The new law--which was designed to encourage foreign invest-
ment, stabilize tax revenues and stimulate additional copper processing in
Chile--established a basic rate of 50 percent on net profits, plus a surtax
of 25 percent. The latter declined proportionately as production exceeded
a base level, defined as 95 percent of the average output of the company
during the period 1949-53. This base level represented a total production
of 333,000 TM per year, significantly lower than installed capacity, and
was quickly exceeded. The new law also abolished the existing differential
exchange rate. Another aspect of the new law was the provision for ac.el-
erated depreciation, particularly with regard to new investments. This mea-
sure proved to be an attractive incentive for the foreign companies and was
especially beneficial to the new El Salvador mine which replaced the depleted
Potrerillos mine in 1959.
6.        The 1955 law substantially improved the investment climate and
was followed by increased new investment, though not as large as had been
hoped for by the proponents of the legislation. It was also subjected to
considerable political criticism in Chile by those who argued that it had
resulted in substantial loss of governmental revenue. Furthermore, at the
precise moment when the tax law became effective a sudden rise in the world
price of copper took place and the combination of favorable tax legislation
and high prices resulted in large profits for the mining companies. This
increased ill-feeling within Chile towards the tax legislation. The 1955
legislation was nevertheless preserved until 1959 when two additional mea-
sures were introduced increasing effective tax to almost former levels. Once
again these measures had a dampening effect on investment. Plans for further
investment were shelved and the sector experienced a period of uncertainty
from 1960-65.
7.        In the early 1960's the Christian Democratic Party under the
leadership of Eduardo Frei--who was to become President of Chile in 1964--
had proposed a revision of the laws and government policies for the Gran
Mineria, the so-called 'Chileanization` program. The major objectives of
the program included a doubling of copper output by 1970, substantial parti-
cipation by the Government in copper production and exploration, a tripling



ANNEX 2-6
Page 3
of refining capacity by 1970, state-control of sales and reducing Chile's
dependence on U.S. markets. Tax incentives and tax guarantees were provided
which would assure the profitability of the new operations. A multiplicity
of tax laws were introduced in 1964. A piew mineral law No. 16,624 estab-
lished a basic tax rate of 52.5 percent of net profits, plus a variable
surtax of 33 percent for the Chuquicamata mine. The surtax reduced to zero
if production reached 100 percent above the "basic output" level, defined as
95 percent of the average 1949-53 output. The El Salvador mine was taxed
at 50 percent of net profits, but with a reduction in allowable depreciation
from 81/lb to 1.8k/lb. The joint venture mines were afforded special tax
treatment. El Teniente (51 percent government) was subject to 20 percent
profits tax, plus 30 percent tax on dividends paid to Kennecott. Andina and
Exotica (25 percent government owned) were subject to 15 percent profits tax
and 30 percent dividend tax. The net effect was to reduce the tax burdens
appreciably. As indicated in the table on page 8, taxes as a percentage
of gross sales increased from an average of 7 percent between 1930-39, to
almost 20 percent between 1940-49 and averaged 27 percent and 32 percent
for the periods 19.50-59 and 1960-69 respectively. The goal of the Frei
program was to negotiate a long-term contract with the foreign-owned copper
companies which would assure the creation of productive capacity consistent
with the maximization of total net revenues. Fiscal policy was a key
ingredient of the Government's incentive package and provided the long-term
guarantees that the companies had been seeking for almost two decades. The
situation which had prevailed in 1955-1956--however, a combination of favor-
able tax incentives and high world copper prices--occurred once again ten
years later.  Profits exceeded all previous levels and provided a bonanza
to the foreign companies. Such profits were also primarily responsible for
fueling the political pressures for outright nationalization of the Gran
Mineria, an event which was subsequently to take place in July 1971.
8.        The nationalization of the Gran IMineria has demanded a correspond-
ing change in fiscal policy. Both government fiscal revenues and foreign-
exchange earnings have become increasingly sensitive to fluctuations in
the world price of copper. The Chilean Government has been striving to
formulate a fiscal policy to meet this changing situation, i.e., to control
expenditures in accordance with these price variations, and to use the surplus
resources generated at times of high copper prices to finance expenditures
when prices are depressed. At the same time, these surpluses need to be
directed towards the installation of new productive capacity in the country
in sectors other than the mining sector. With the dramatic fall in copper
prices in late 1974 and early 1975 to below 55k/lb. from the high of $1.45/lb.
in mid-1974, the profitability of the Gran Mineria and hence its tax liabili-
ties declined dramatically, contributing to an aggravation of the fiscal
situation. As an interim measure the Government has adopted the following
policy; all revenues of the Gran Mineria operations in excess of the operating
costs, estimated to be the equivalent of 45k/lb., are now being retained by
the Government. This system of forced revenue transfers is to be used only
as an interim measure until a more suitable system of taxation and transfer
of a part of the net earnings of the publicly-owned mines to the Government
can be formulated.



ANNEX 2-6
Page 4
B.   Development of Exchange-Control Policy
9.        Exchange rate policy, as applied to the copper mining industry,
has been the other major instrument utilized by successive Chilean govern-
ments since 1932 to increase government revenue generated from copper pro-
duction. In the same way as taxation policy, it has been a sensitive point
in all relations between the Government and the foreign-owned companies.
The idea that a differential exchange rate should apply to Chile's primary
export commodity has been deep-rooted in government thinking. Even after
the nationalization of the industry in 1971 both the Allende government and
the present military government maintained a differential rate as a means
for channeling revenue generated by the copper industry to the rest of the
public sector. Only recently--since August 6--has this rate been discarded
and been replaced by a uniform exchange rate.
10.       The first exchange controls on transactions related to the copper
mining industry were imposed in 1932. These exchange controls required that
a portion of the local operating costs--the so-called "legal costs of produc-
tion"--had to be paid in Chilean currency acquired at a special and discri-
minatory rate. This marked the beginning of a differential rate that was
to continue in subsequent decades signifying one exchange rate for trans-
actions affecting the Gran Mineria and another for transactions outside of
this industrial activity. The net impact was an effective tax on mining
operations of the Gran Mineria which was to continue until 1955.
11.       Throughout this period the general regulations governing exports
specified that all revenues derived from sales outside of Chile had to be
returned in their totality to the country. In the case of foreign companies,
this revenue was returned to the banking system and any subsequent purchase
of foreign-exchange--for the purpose of local expenditures and repatriation
of profits--was conducted through the existing channels with Central Bank
approval. The Gran Mineria, however, enjoyed a uniquely privileged position
in that it was not subject to this regulation, returning foreign-exchange
to Chile only to the extent that it found itself required to make payments
in local currency.
12.       The New Treatment Law of 1955 (see Annex 2-5, paragraph 5) brought
to an end the special exchange rate for copper. Starting from 1956 all
transactions were carried out at a single exchange rate, a system which sur-
vived until 1962 and which had the effect of encouraging the companies to
shift their purchases to Chilean suppliers. During 1962 a dual exchange rate
was briefly introduced but was eliminated again before the end of that year.
The Chileanization program, elaborated by the Christian Democratic Party
in the early 1960's but whose basic legislation was not passed until January
1966, explicitly guaranteed there would be no discriminatory exchange agree-
ments similar to those which had existed previously. This endured until the



ANNEX 2-6
Page 5
Allende Government came to power when a system of multiple exchange rates
was introduced, affecting not only the copper industry but also a series of
other import-export transactions and which survived until almost the end of
1973.
C.   Development of Investment Policy - Before and After Nationalization
The Period to Nationalization
13.       The low historical investment levels in the period 1930-1945 were
primarily affected by the depressed conditions in the world copper market
during the 1930's and the shortage of capital goods during the Second World
War rather than by the Government's tax policy. Despite the rapid growth
of world demand in the aftermath of the war, however, investment in Chile's
copper sector by the foreign-owned companies did not increase between 1948
and 1955. It is certain that high levels of taxation and uncertainties
regarding government policy played a significant role in keeping investment
levels low. The only major investment in this period was in the Chuquicamata
mine ($132 million) which reflected more Anaconda's interest in maintaining
its share of the world market than the profitability of additional invest-
ment.
14.       By any standards investment in the Gran Mineria during this period
was low.  The stagnation of copper output in the Gran Mineria in the face of
rising world demand gave rise to the New Treatment Law in 1955, designed
primarily to encourage output and investment in new productive capacity. In
the aftermath of this law, investment did increase significantly with addi-
tions to capacity taking place in the Chuquicamata, El Teniente and, most
importantly, the El Salvador mines; over $200 million was invested in total.
Nevertheless, investment did not attain the level expected and the increase
was short-lived. Fluctuations in the world price of copper, general politi-
cal uncertainty in the country and high levels of inflation were primarily
responsible for this. By 1960, however, the foreign companies were prepared
to consider making substantial investments--up to $500 million over a five-
year period--in return for tax guarantees and other provisions. An agreement
was finally reached in the Frei Chileanization program which became law in
early 1966. This program sought primarily a doubling of copper output by
1970 and a substantial participation of the Government in copper production.
The investment program contemplated further expansion of the Chuquicamata,
El Salvador and El Teniente mining operations, as well as bringing into pro-
duction two new mines, Andina and Exotica. Total planned investment to 1971
was approximately $470 million.
15.       While risk and political uncertainty as well as high taxation policy
were undoubtedly the factors which were largely responsible for the lack of a
continuous investment flow, the low propensity of the foreign companies to
reinvest out of profits is attributable to other factors, outside of the



ANNEX 2-6
Page 6
Government's control and Chile found itself continually subject to these in
its attempts to arrest the outflow of foreign-earned income from Chile. The
world depression in the 1930's and the copper price fixing policy of the U.S.
during periods of war were two examples of this. The Chileanization program
provided the framework for a more continuous investment flow by the foreign
companies. Nationalization of the industry, however, in 1971--before the
program could be fully completed--transformed the ownership of the sector.
The Table on page 7 summarizes the returns from the three large mining pro-
ducers in the period 1930-69.
Industrial Projects Department
April 1975



ANNEX 2-7
Page 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
PAST INVESTMENTS IN THE CHILE COPPER SECTOR
A.   Gran Mineria:  Large-Scale Mining
An Overview
1.        Little is on record of the investments made in the early develop-
ment of the Gran Mineria, except that:
(a)  The first mine El Teniente was incorporated in 1904 with
a capital of US$2.3 million as Braden Copper Company and
sold in 1916 to the Kennecott Copper Corporation for US$57
million (95 percent of stock);
(b)  The Chuquicamata mine was incorporated by Guggenheims in 1912
as Chile Exploration Company and 51 percent of the stock was
sold to Anaconda Company in 1923 for US$77 million; and
(c)  The Potrerillos mine was also bought by Anaconda from the
Guggenheims.
2.        The records available indicate that investment in large-scale copper
mining from 1930 to 1969 was as follows:
Table 1: Total Investment in the Large Copper Mining Sector (1930-69)
Period                      Total        Annual Average
--------US$ million--------
1930--39                     12.1              1.2
1940-54                     161.1             10.7
1955-64                     251.1            25.1
1965-70                     631.3            105.2
1971-73                      75.8            25.2
3.        By the end of 1973 the accumulated gross investments in the Gran
Mineria was indicated on the corporate accounts as almost US$2.5 billion.
Accumulated net fixed assets are shown as approximately US$1 billion.
Programs 1955 to 1965
4.        In 1955 the Government of General Carlos Ibanez promulgated Law
No. 11,828, known as "Ley del Cobre", which fixed a basic tax of 50 percent
on profits of the companies plus an additional tax of 25 percent that decreased
in direct relation to the increase in production, providing a tax burden much



ANNEX 2-7
Page 2
more severe than previously in effect. While this created some hesitancy,
the foreign copper companies were nevertheless prepared to embark on a major
investment program. Kennecott announced its intent to increase annual capacity
of El Teniente from 165,000 metric tons to 255,000 metric tons with a US$200
million investment; Anaconda planned to build a new refinery at a cost of
US$128 million; and Cerro Corporation offered to invest US$75 million to
bring Andina into operation with a production of 60,000 tons/year. However,
these plans were conditional upon the Government agreeing to a 20-year tax
guarantee, and were shelved in 1962 when surtaxes were levied on top of the
basic income tax liabilities--contrary to previous legislation. Tax reached
80-90% of taxable income for some operations. The funds were instead applied
to projects in the U.S. and production stagnated between 1960 and 1964,
although earlier investments realised increases in capacity between 1955 and
1960.
Programs 1965 to 1973
5.        In 1964, exploratory talks began between the Christian Democrats
and the foreign copper companies regarding nationalization and expansion,
even before President Frei was elected in September 1964, and the victory
of his Christian Democratic Party in March 1965. A program was agreed
upon which called for "Chileanization" of foreign owned copper companies
and included the following objectives:
(a) To boost copper production by 1972 to 1.2 million (short) tons,
of which almost 1 million (short) tons (880,000 metric tons)
would come from the Gran Mineria;
(b)  To refine a much higher share of copper production in Chile,
in order to increase revenues, create jobs, and to provide
raw materials for expansion of a metal fabricating industry;
(c)  To provide for Chilean Government participation in the
production and marketing of copper as a partner of the
producing companies in order to provide more state control
over the country's most important export; and
(d)  To integrate the copper industry into the national economy.
6.        In separate negotiations with each of the companies agreements
were reached on tax reform, financing the investments, and Chilean partici-
pation in "mixed" companies. The expansion and nationalization programs
effectively commenced in 1967.



ANNEX 2-7
Page 3
Expansion Targets
8.        An impressive program was formulated, which was the largest under-
taken in Chile, and covered the ongoing operations of Chuquicamata, El Teniente
and El Salvador, plus two new deposits, Exotica and Andina, as summarized
below:
Table 2: Gran Mineria Expansion Program (1967-72)
Mine/Plant               1965 Output        Planned 1972 Output        Increase
--------- ('000 metric tons) -------          -% ---
Chuquicamata                253                      355                 40
El Salvador                  74                       100                 35
El Teniente                 152                      255                  67
Exotica                       -                       100                  -
Andina                       _                         70                  -
Total                  480                      880                 84
Project Descriptions
9.        Chuguicamata:  Decree No. 1771 of December 23, 1966, authorized
Chile Exploration Company to make an investment of US$99 million, later
increased to US$159 million to expand the mine, concentrator and refinery.
The objective of the investment was to increase the capacity for mining and
treating sulphide ores from 170,000 tpy to 355,000 tpy and a total installed
refinery capacity from 270,000 tpy to 455,000 tpy, including the treatment of
oxide ore from Exotica. The project included: purchase of mining equipment
(shovels, trucks, drills), mine development, modernization of the oxide leach-
ing plant, expansion of the sulphide concentrator, expansion of the smelter,
and elecro-extraction and refining plants, installation of an additional 55,000
Kw generating capacity in the Tocopilla electric plant, port installations
in Antofagasta, welfare works, increased transportation capacity and general
services.
10.       El Salvador-Potrerillos:  Decree No. 1770 of December 23, 1966,
authorized the Andes Copper Mining Company to invest US$10 million later
increased to US$13 million in the expansion of capacity to 100,000 tpy. The
project included: adding a third bay to the electrolytic refinery to expand
refinery capacity from 33,000 tpy to 66,000 tpy; expansion of the Barquito
diesel electric station, and underground mine development to increase capacity
to 25,000 tpd.
11.       El Teniente:  Decree No. 316, of March 1, 1967, authorized the
expenditure of US$230 million by Sociedad Minera El Teniente to increase
production capacity from 160,000 tpy to 280,000 tpy. The project included:



ANNEX 2-7
Page 4
increasing electrolytic refining capacity from 50,000 tpy to 120,000 tpy and
fire refining capacity from 66,000 tpy to 118,000 tpy; development of new
areas of mine; expansion of existing one; construction of the new No. 8 level
connecting the mine with the Colon Concentrator, including construction of the
railroad and purchase of rolling stock; construction of the new generating
capacity and distribution system for electric power, including construction of
a 110 Kv high-tension line; construction of high-speed all-weather highway
from Rancagua to Colon (40 km), and general services. The project was ori-
ginally scheduled for completion by June 1970.
12.       Exotica:  Decree No. 215 of February 13, 1967, authorized an invest-
ment by Compania Minera Exotica of US$38 million for development of the Exotica
mine. The project included: exploration to delineate the ore body; engineering
of pit design; pit development, stripping; purchase of mining equipment; and
installation of ancillary facilities required to supply sufficient ore to the
Chuquicamata oxide plant for producing 100,000 tpy of fine copper.
13.       Andina:  Decree No. 1999 of December 9, 1966 authorized an
investment of US$89 million later increased to US$157 million for the devel3p-
ment of the Rio Blanco mine by the Compania Minera Andina. The project included:
engineering, development and start-up of an underground mine using block-raving
methods; excavation and installation of an underground sulphide concentrator,
installation of power generating capacity and distribution system; provision
of water supply; transport facilities; port installations, townsite and services,
plus ancillary works.
Financing and Expansion
14.       The program originally estimated to cost US$426 million equivalent
in 1965/66, quickly escalated to US$590 million by 1970 and by 1973 had reached
US$617 million with parts of the program still not satisfactorily completed.
Further investments of more than US$150 million are still required before the
production target of 880,000 tpy will be realised. Table 3, page 5, summarizes
the investments made for each project to the end of 1973. In addition Anaconda
embarked on a housing program with estimated costs of about US$70 million.



Table 3
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
INVESTMENTS MADE IN THE EXPANSION PROGRAM
(US$ millions)
Authorized
Total       Investment
Company            1967     1968      1969     1970     1971      1972     1973    1967-73    Original Revised
Compania de Cobre       24.3     64.5    l9e3       30.9     10,8       2.5      9.4     161.8         99       159
Chuquicamata
(Decree No. 1771)
Compania Minera         11.4      3.9      11U5     19.7      1.2        -        -        47a6        38        38
Exotica
(Decree No. 215)
Compania de Cobre        5.4      4-0       2,0      1.2      0.6       Ool       -        13.3        10        13
Salvador
(Decree No. 1770)
Sociedad Minera         12.2     78.3      91.3     29.8     46.7        -        -       258.3       230       230
El Teniente
(Decree No. 316)
Compania Minera         22.4     27.1      34.7     47.7      3.6       0.7      0.2     136Q6         89       157
Andina
(Decree Nos. 1699
and 46)                   -
Total                   75.8    177.8    158.9    129.3      62.9      33.4      9.5      617.6        466      597
SOURCES:  Chuquicamata:  Report on construction costs on December 31 each year.
Exotica: Report of construction costs on December 31 for 1967 and 1968. Financial statements
for 1969 and after.
Salvador: Financial statements*
El Teniente:  Progress Reports Plan 280 for 1968, 69, 71: Codelco report on Development of
Expansion Programs 1967; Report on statements of costs 1970;
Andina:  Reports on construction costs (1967/68/69); Annex 7 of Accounting Reports.                        CD
lI



ANNEX 2-7
Page 6
15.       Foreign sources financed a major part of the program.  The U.S.
Eximbank (US$196.5 million), private foreign banks (US$80 million), and
Japanese copper smelters (US$32 million), together provided about 50 percent
of the total financing. Another 20 percent (US$121 million) was financed
by loaned from Kennecott and Cerro to their Chilean subsidiaries. Equity
investments by Cerro and Anaconda in the two new mines ($26 million) and
reinvestment of earnings (US$75 million) by Anaconda accounted for a further
17 percent of the finance. The remaining 10 percent (US$56 million) came
primarily from Codelco. Completion of the projects to reach targeted produc-
tion levels will come primarily from cash generation.
Results of the Expansion Program
16.       Several important problems were encountered such as design errors,
underestimation of capacity of installations and even serious mistakes in
respect to technological concepts. Difficult labor relations in particular
as well as transport strikes in 1972-73, resulted in a large shortfall of
production below those targeted. The considerable start-up problems and
delays in the completion of construction and engineering not only persisted
into early 1974, but were aggravated by shortage of capital, spare parts
and very importantly the large exodus of some 300 highly qualified technicians
at the end of 1970 and early 1971--just at the time the new installations
had to be run-in--when the Allende Government de facto reduced the comparatively
high salaries of these people and abolished their privilege to receive at least
part of their remuneration in U.S. dollars. In addition, when the inevitability
of nationalization was realized, the companies employed various short-cut
techniques in an endeavour to produce as much as possible in the time remaining.
17.       The production shortfalls are summarized in Table 4, page 7.
18.       Instead of obtaining an 85 percent increase in capacity between
1965 and 1972 as planned originally, a 28 percent increase had only been
realized by 1973. This increased to 59 percent in 1974, which is still
significantly short (124000 tons) of the target. To a large extent this
short-fall was a result of poor management and lack of worker discipline of
the nationalized properties as evidenced by the fact that after reorganization
of Codelco with the change in Government in September 1973, production for
the five mines increased to 207,800 for the fourth quarter 1973 (or 831,200
annual equivalent) which is only 6 percent short of the 880,000 ton target
or an expansion increase of 75 percent versus the planned 85 percent. The
production for the month of December 1973 reached 73,000 tons which annualized
becomes 876,000 tons or almost the target figure. The shortfall from target
in 1974 is due partly to some technical deficiencies of the program, and very
importantly is affected by the lack of capital and spare parts, management
deficiencies and operational problems resulting from poor operational control
and procedures over the past three years.



Table 4
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
RESULTS OF THE EXPANSION PROGRAM
Actual         Production                            Actual                       7  Change                     1974
Production    Targets (1965)2/  Targets (1970)      Production    Shortfal11        (1965-73)lV         %       Actual
1965             1972        1971         1973  1971    1973       1973        Target  Actual Achievement Prodbcftki
(000 metric tons)
El Salvador         74               100           90          90    85       84        16          35       12        35%       80
Chuquicamata       253               355          300          354   250      263       91          40        5        12%       357
El Teniente        153               253          260          274   147     178        75          80       17        21%       226
Exotica             -                102           77         102    35        32       68          -        -         32%        32
Rio Blanco          -                 70           60          63    54       56        14          -        -         80%       68
Total            480               880          787         883   571      616       270          85       28        35%      764
1 Targets established by the companies.
L  Revised targets by CODELCO made shortly after nationalization of the companies.
/ Shortfall over initial target (1965).
Percentage change in production of 1973 over 1965 production.
CD 



ANNEX 2-7
Page 8
19.       In Chuguicamata, the output in 1973 was only 5 percent higher than
that in 1965, but actually lower than the outputs in 1964, 66, 67, 68 and 69,
versus an expected production increase of 40 percent with the expansion
program. The causes were numerous. First, in the months prior to nation-
alization, mine development was neglected and all equipment was used to extract
as much ore as possible. Second, the lack of foreign exchange, the increasing
difficulties of obtaining spare parts, and mining trucks supplied by tradi-
tion by U.S. suppliers, and delays in deliveries from new suppliers (Australia),
and poor maintenace led to a deterioration of the production equipment and a
rapid reduction in the availablity of the equipment. The mine rolling stock
at times operated at only 50 percent capacity. Third, design errors and
defects in the newly installed primary crusher in the pit and the conveyor
belt to the concentrator plus inadequate processing capacity of the smelter
provided production bottlenecks. The newly installed smelter had been designed
without regard to Chiquicamata's altitude of 2,300 m above sea level, causing
the reverbatory to function at only 65 percent of its nominal capacity.
Fourth and most important, however, was the steady social unrest and poor
management during the start-up of the expanded facilities. The labor force
was increased, while output declined, hence, productivity declined substan-
tially. Poor mining practice such as doubling bench heights, led to a
significant deterioration of safety conditions, poor blasting efficiency,
and lawer equipment utilization factors.
20.       The production increases after the change of government in
September 1973 show the importance of non-technical factors: output for
the last three months of 1973 reached 92,200 tons (370,000 tons annual equiv-
alent) which is 107 percent of the targeted output. Production in 1974
reached 357,000 tons or the targeted output (70 percent of the projected
expansion). With the improved availability of spare parts, receipt of the
new trucks and other equipment recently ordered with suppliers credits, minor
improvement in the primary crushing facilities and continued better management,
pit design and production planning even further increases are expected in 1975
and 1976, although the working of lower grade ore will provide some oottlenecks.
21.       The El Salvador project was small, costing only US$13 million, with
a projected production increase of 25,000 tons. Total production reached
93,000 tons in 1970 (75 percent of the planned increase), but dropped again
to a level of 83,000 tons for 1971 through 1973 with the mass exodus of
engineers with the nationalization. At one point only two engineers were
left to operate the El Salvador mine. Depletion of the more friable second-
ary ore and the movement of the production to the harder primary ore areas
is the major cause for the shortfall. In addition, one of the newly installed
diesel generators exploded and the others have operated less than satisfactorily,
posing a limit on the utilization of the new refining capacity also installed
under the project. Production in the immediate future is expected to be
limited to the present levels of 85,000 tpy, because of the difficulty being
experienced in mining the harder ore, and the electric power bottleneck.
Further investment in both these areas is needed to achieve the production
target of 100,000 tpy.



ANNEX 2-7
Page 9
22.       At El Teniente, the production level of 1972, while exceeding
the 1965 level by 40,000 tons, barely exceeded the levels of 1966, 69 and
70, and fell considerably short of the targeted production. El Teniente's
poor performance can be mainly attributed to poor management and labor
problems during the running in of the new equipment. The loss of large
numbers of qualified engineers and supervisors, adverse climatic conditions
(reducing the water supply below the normal minimal level), plus some
significant design etrrors in the new smelter, all contributed to the
problems. The concept of smelting concentrates in converters with oxygen-
enriched air failed, and it was thus necessary to build a new reverbatory
furnace (completed in April 1974) to increase smelter capacity to that
planned in the program. In addition, a special water supply line is under
construction to avoid future difficulties. Production in 1974 reached
225,000 tons (88 percent of target). El Teniente, similarly to El Salvador,
is experiencing problems in moving the production areas from the friable
secondary ore to the harder primary ore. Achievement of the production
target established at the beginning of the expansion program depends upon
the success with which this problem can be solved.
23.       The development of the Exotica mine ran into severe technical
(metallurgial) problems and has been unable to attain more than 30 percent
of design capacity. Exotica is located very close to Chuquicamata and was
discovered at a time when the oxide ore at Chuquicamata was nearing depletion
and the operations turning to sulphide ore. Since the Exotica ore was an
oxide, the plan was to treat the Exotica ores in the Chuiquicamata oxide
processing facilities (leaching, electrowinning). The proximity of the two
deposits and the preliminary results of the test drilling suggested that
there were no important differences in the characteristics of the two ores.
Hence, insufficient exploration and ore testing was undertaken. As it turned
out, the Exotica ore is very different from the Chuqui oxide ore and the
process used for the latter was not suited. Subsequent drilling and testing
has demonstrated that not only is the Exotica ore much more complex, but the
ore body is composed of three different types of ore, all of which need
different treatment. Testing has demonstrated that the use of solvent
extraction between the leaching and electrowinning stages should solve the
major problems of impure leaching solutions now encountered. Alternative
leaching methods are also being considered and tested. Steps are being taken
to install the new facilities. Major investment of more than US$90 million
will be required before Exotica could be operated at its originally targeted
figure of 100,000 tons.
24.       Andina, in spite of early serious technical difficulties
related to the block caving, was brought into production in early 1971,
reaching almost 80 percent of capacity in that year, a level it maintained
through 1973, rising in 1974 to the targeted level. Apart from inducing
the initial caving the project experienced only minor technical problems.
Delays in completion of the infrastructure and housing facilities for the
work force contributed to some loss of production.



ANNEX 2-7
Page 10
B.   Mediana y Peguena Mineria (Medium and Small Mines)
The Program 1968-72
25.       In addition to expansion of large mines, Chile planned to increase
the production of its small and medium copper mines from 100,000 tons in
1965 to 220,000 tons in 1972. Thus, total Chilean copper output was to in-
crease more than 90 percent, from 580,000 tons in 1965 to 1.2 million tons
in 1972. ENAMI, the State Mining Company, was to organize and execute a
major part of the medium and small mines' expansion.
26.       In this context ENAMI undertook in 1968 a three-year program to
increase its own mine production from 52,000 tons to 96,000 tons per year
and to provide additional smelting and refining capacities for processing
part of large and medium mines output under toll agreements. Total refined
production by ENAMI facilities was to reach 164,000 tons in 1972 (1968:
108,000). The increased production was to provide 4,700 additional jobs.
Table 5:  ENAMI EXPANSION PROGRAM (1968-73)
Actual    Targeted             Change
1968        1972      1968-72   % Increase
-------------(000 metric tons)-----------
Own production
Electrolytic copper               28          46          18           64
Blister                           24          35          11           46
Concentrates                       -          16          16            -
Sub-total                    52          97          45           87
Toll operations
For Gran Mineria                   12         16           4           33
For Mediana Mineria               44          51           7           16
Sub-total                    56          67          11           20
Total                       108         164          56           52
27.       The remaining 56,000 tons (50 percent) of the expansion to 220,000
tons was to be met by the private-medium and small operations.
Investment Costs
28.       Investment under the ENAMI program was initially estimated at
US$85 million (US$47 million local, US$38 million foreign). The major part
was to finance mine and plant as shown below:



ANNEX 2-7
Page 11
IEAMI Expansion Program (US$ million)
I te                               Cost
Refining                            4.0
Smelting                           20.5
Treatment                          16.8
Mine development                   20.4
Mixed companies                     8.6
Other                               6.5
Working capital                     8.2
Total                         85.0
Achievements
29.       The performance of this sector was even more dismal than that of
the large mines, and in 1973 production was only 100,000 tons, the same as
that in 1965, although output had reached 150,000 tons in 1969 and 1970.
30.       A major part of the ENAMI program was delayed because of delays
in arranging the necessary foreign financing; only 15 percent of total
investment was implemented and financing arranged for the remainder by early
1970. With the change in Government in 1970, implementation of the project
almost stopped and the increase in capacity shown in the late 1960's by the
private sector was reversed with increased labor dissension, and less favor-
able economic conditions, namely, the imposition of an artificial exchange
rate on the receipts from mineral exports, uncertainty of the Government's
intentions and actions to form mixed companies, and transport strikes.
Many of the smallest operations were temporarily closed down.
Industrial Projects Department
April 1975



ANNEX 2-8
Page 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
FUTURE EXPANSION AND PRODUCTION OF THE COPPER SECTOR
A.   Copper Potential of Chile
1.        Chile posesses extremely large copper reserves; reportedly more than
20 percent of world reserves. The five large mines together possess more than
5 billion tons of proven reserves (60-70 years life at the existing rate of
production) and have additional potential reserves of 3-1/2 - 6 billion tons.
These are divided as follows:
Copper Reserves
Mine                                Proven                    Potential
(in addition to proven)
----------million tons (grade %)---------
Chuquicamata                    1,500 (1.2% Cu)             2,000-3,000 (1.2% Cu)
El Teniente                     3,000 (1%   Cu)             1,000-2,000 (1%   Cu)
El Salvador                       260 (1.3% Cu)            Not determined (sm..lZ'1
Exotica                            185 (1.7% Cu)           Not determined (small'
Andina                             120 (1.6% Cu)            Possibly 500-1,000
Total                5,365                       3,500-6,000
2.        In addition substantial reserves have been located in new deposits
as listed below:
Deposit                        Province                    Potential Reserves
----million tons (grade %)----
Cerro Colorado                 Tarapaca                       100 (1.0% Cu)
Mocha                          Tarapaca                        50 (0.8% Cu)
Quebrada Blanca                Tarapaca                       150 (1.0% Cu)
Sierra Gorda                   Tarapaca                        30 (0.78% Cu)
Puntillas                      Antofagasta                     20 (0.9% Cu)
El Abra                        Antofagasta                    700 (0.9% Cu)
Pampa Norte                    Antofagasta                    100 (0.8% Cu)
Sierra Jardin                  Atacama                       Unknown
Punta del Cobre                Atacama                        Unknown
Andacollo *                    Coquimbo                       300 (0.7% Cu)
Los Pelambres                  Coquimbo                       450 (0.8% Cu)
Disputada *                    Santiago                      Unknown
Total Reserves                         At least 3 billion (0.7-1.0% Cu)
*Existing small scale operations.



ANNEX 2-8
Page 2
3.        Substantial reserves also exist as tailings and slag dumps.  It is
estimated that these amount to more than 1 billion tons as follows:
Dump                                      Reserve
----million tons (% grade)----
Chuquicamata selected mine waste dumps                 300 (0.3% Cu)
Chuquicamata leach residues                            500 (0.3% Cu)
Chuquicamata concentrator tailings                     250 (0.2% Cu)
Potrerillos residues                                    25 (0.25% Cu)
Salvador concentrator tailings                          50 (0.25% Cu)
El Teniente (Barahona) concentrator tailings            50 (0.2 Cu)
El Teniente (Cauquenes) concentrator tailings          300 (0.2% Cu)
Total at least                       1,800 (0.2-0.3% Cu)
Thus, potential copper reserves in Chile amount to at least 10 bil-
lion tons averaging 1 percent Cu or 100 million tons of fine copper which re-
presents 100 years life at the production level expected by 1978. Alternatively
this represents 16-18 years of the 1973 total world production level. Clearly,
r.hile has major copper reserves, despite the fact that it has not been explored
with as much intensity as many other regions of the world. It is important to
note that 80% of these reserves are contained in the deposits now worked by
the 5 companies of the Gran Minera.
B.   Investment Needs
The Role of Chilean Production in Future World Supply  /
4.        As indicated in Annex 3-1, the increase in world consumption of
primary copper has averaged 4.3 percent over the past 20 years, or 3.8 percent
for the period 1970--1973. This growth rate is expected to continue although
projections on the basis of population growth and increase in per capita
consumption indicate that 4.3 percent appears conservative. As indicated
in Annex 3-1, paras 32, 33 and Table 17, such a rate of expansion will require
a total investment by 1980 of $12 billion (in 1974 constant terms) to raise
capacity to 9.6 million tons. In the order of $2 billion per year will be
required to meet this target; a large amount of capital to mobilize and effec-
tively spend.
5.        Because of its significant reserve base and the economics of exploiting
these reserves the options open to Chile in its role in future world supply are
numerous; varying between a stagnant position at constant production to increas-
ing capacity commensurate with its reserve position in the world. The production
and investment implications of several (nominal) alternatives are listed below.
1/   This section has been extracted from "The Indispensibility of Chilean
Copper" Alexander Sutolov, Director of R&D, CODELCO. Presentation to
American Mining Congress, Las Vegas, October 1974.



ANNEX 2-8
Page 3
Alternatives for Development of Copper Production
in Chile from 1971 to 2000
Expansion at                   Expansion at World          Expansion to Maintain
Chile's Historic                    Average Rate                  20% of World
1951-73 Rate                         1951-73                     Capacity
3.1%/Year                         b.3%/Year                    6.7%/Year
Average        Average        Average       Average        Average
Annual       Annual i        Annual/i       Annual/I      Annual/I       Annual/
Average      Investment    Production    Investment   Production    Investment
Year  Production       (Us$ 106)      (000 ton)      (Us$106)      (000 ton)      (US$106)
1971-75     740            -             740             -            740             -
1976-80     850            90            914            140         1,500            600
1981-85      990          110         1,130             180         2,250            600
1986-90   1,150          130          1,390             208         2,780            420
1991-95   1,335          150          1,720             260         3,430            520
1996-2000 1,655           260         2,120             320         4,230            640
Total Investment       3,660                         5,520                        13,900
/1  Investment costs estimated at $4,000/MT of annual production (1974 prices).
6.        Each of these alternatives is feasible from the point of view of avail-
ability of copper resources. While in the next 25 years the world will consume
approximately 400 million tons of copper (almost the totality of known resources),
Chile is unlikely to deplete more than 50 percent of her presently known reserves.
Furthermore Chile, deposits are of favorable grade, size and location to make
them competitive with other copper deposits in the world. Hence, major expan-
sion of Chile's production would apriori appear to be both technically and
financially feasible. The major inhibiting factors would appear to be the
availability of capital and the absorptive capacity of the industry. Both fac-
tors would clearly inhibit achieving the third alternative of expanding to 20
percent of world production, particularly in the short-term (one-five years),
but also in the medium term (five-ten years) and possibly in the longer term.
While no clear policy has yet been developed, the Government seems determined
to develop the copper sector with a balance of private and public participation.
Evidence is the new favorable investment code. Even without private foreign
participation, the national companies, mainly CODELCO but also the medium mines
should have sufficient financial resources (both internally generated and loan
capacity) to finance an expansion rate of 4 to 5 percent per year which compares
with the historical rate of 3 percent over the past two decades. It is important
to note that in addition to the figures shown in the above table, capital invest-
ment of about $100 million/year is needed, merely to maintain existing capacity.
However, these companies at present lack the absorptive capacity to efficiently



ANNEX 2-8
Page 4
and effectively carry out such an expansion. To some extent this gap can be
filled by technical assistance and subcontracting, but any major increase in
rate of expansion over 5 percent (i.e., 6 or 7 percent) will require intensive
use of foreign capital, technical and management inputs. Furthermore, the
extent to which copper revenues are to be reinvested in copper, vis-a-vis
being used in other sectors will depend upon capital availability for other
sectors vis-a-vis the copper sector. Clearly, the copper sector has advantages
in attracting foreign capital.
CODELCO'S Five Year Investment Programme
7.        CODELCO's investment plan for the period of 1976 through 1980 is
primarily aiming at maintaining its current copper producing capabilities.
About 90% of the total investment of US$740 million for the period will be
used to rehabilitate, maintain, and expand the present inadequate smelting
and refining capability not so much for the purpose of increasing production
of fine copper but accomodating the necessarily increased mine production
due to falling ore grades. The following table summarizes the major invest-
ments itemized by producing mines:



ANNEX 2-8
Page 5
TABLE 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
CODELCO's INVESTMENT PROGRAMME FOR THE 1976-1980 PERIOD
(US$ million)
- - - Period 1977-1980 - - -                        - - - Period 1976 - - -
CHUQUICAMA                                Local          Foreign           Total           Local          Foreign           T3Dtal
Basic Investments                         46,685          64,500          111,185          18,050           24,350          42,400
New Smelter and Acid Plant                73,359          58,841          132,200             -               -               -
Solvent Extraction Plant (Oxides)         44,300          50,000           94,300            -                -               -
Improvement of Electrical System
and Power Capacity                     24,500          25,500          50,000             -               -                -
Other New Investments                     34,000          48,000           74,000            -                -               -
Selenium Plant                             1,629             686            2.315             150              150             300
Total                               224,473         239,527         464,000           18,200          24,500          42,700
EXOTICA
Basic Investments                          1,500           3,500            5,000             300              700           1,000
Other New Investments                      7,800           7,800           15,000            -                -               -
Total                                 9,300          10,700          20,000              300             700            l,000
SALVADOR
Basic Investments                         16,410           1,160           17,570           3,000            1,600           4,600
Other New Investments                     22,200          14,800           37,000            -                -               -
Rehabilitation of Barquito
Power Plant                             3,090          17,340          20,430              900           2,100         _3.000
Total                               41,700           33,300          75,000            3,900           3,700            .',600
TENIENTE
Basic Investments                         37,166          31,606           68,772          23,100           6,300           29,400
Other New Investments                     12,000           8,OOC           20,000            -                -
Future Mine                               25,569            5,65           31,228           4,400            1,700         _6,100
Total                                74,735          45,265         120,000           27,500           8,000          3';,500
ANDINA
Basic Investments                         17,500          17,50C           35,000           3,500           3,500            7,000
Expansion Program                         16,600           9.40            26,000           1,900           4,600            51500
Total                                34,100          26,90C          61,000            5,400           8,100          13,500
GRAND TOTAL                              384,308         335,692          740,000          55,300          45,000          100,300
Industrial Projects Department
January 1976



ANNEX 2-8
Page 6
ENAMI Investment Programme
8.        Unlike CODELCO, ENAMI's investment programme for 1976-1980 is much
less formalized which is partly due to the recent history of uncertainty
as to the future of this organization.  The tentative five year investment plan
foresees an investment of US$150 million of which about US$100 million will be
spent for a new flash smelter, a sulfuric acid plant, and a refinery expansion
at Ventanas. The remainder of the investment will mainly be used for expansions
of the M.A. Matta and Juan Godoy concentrators for the treatment of Teresita
and Punta del Cobre ores and Manto Verde ore respectively. These projects are
also conceived to basically maintain copper output with greater reliability.
Industrial Projects Department
January, 1976



APNNEX 3-1
Page 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
THE COPPER MARKET
1.        Copper is one of the most important commodities traded in the world.
The value of annual copper consumption exceeds that of all other metals with
the exception of steel, representing almost US$20 billion in 1973. Copper
can also be characterized by another feature, its price instability. Low
short-term elasticities of demand and supply generate huge and volatile
changes in prices when imbalances of supply and demand occur, and thus create
problems for the consumers and, very importantly, the copper exporting LDC's.
A. WORLD COPPER RESERVES
2.        Copper is found in association with other metals, such as nickel
and platinum in ultrabasic intrusives; zinc, and cadmium in volcanic-
sedimentary deposits; molybdenum in hydrothermal deposits; and cobalt in
sedimentary deposits. All copper ores contain small quantities of gold and
silver. The copper content of the ore varies widely from an average of
0.3-2% for intrusive deposits, 0.5-3% for replacement deposits and 0.5-5%
for sedimentary deposits.
3.        Geographically, copper deposits are found all over the world; however,
four major copper areas can be distinguished:
1)   The African copper belt, with deposits of up to 6.5% copper
in Zambia and Zaire. These contain about 25% of the known
copper reserves in the Western world;
2)   Eastern Canada, accounting for about 5% of world copper
reserves with deposits containing 0.5-2.0% copper;
3)   The Western Hemisphere Mountain Chain including deposits
in Alaska, British Columbia, western USA, Mexico, Peru,
Bolivia and Chile which account for nearly 60% of copper
reserves in the world (ex-CPE), containing 0.5-2.5% dopper;
and
This belt continues around the Pacific with deposits on
4)   The East Asian Coast and island chain, particularly, the
Philippines, Australia, Bougainville, Mainland China, etc.
Smaller but still significant reserves totalling about 20% of world
reserves are found in U.S.S.R., Yugoslavia, Poland, Finland, Scandinavia,
Turkey, Romania, Cyprus, Spain, Portugal, India and several other countries.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 2
4.       Published reserves have increased over the past years (as illustrated
by the table below), while the average copper content of reserves have declined
from an average of 2.5% in 1966 to an estimated 1.1% in 1972.
Published Proven Copper Reserves /1
1966                          1972
million tons                million tons
copper content       %      copper content            %
Canada                           7.3           4.6          27.2               10.0
USA                             29.9          18.6          73.5               27.0
Chile                          42.6           26.5          50.8               18.7
Peru                            10.9           6.8          20.0                7.3
Zambia                          23.6          14.7          24.5                9.1
Zaire                           18.1          11.3          18.1                6.6
Others                          28.1          17.5          58.1               21.3
World (ex-CPE)           160.5         100.0          272.2             100.0
Source:   US Bureau of Mines
/1   CPE - centrally planed economies.
The notable increase in published reserves is based on the discovery
of new deposits as well as the inclusions of already known copper deposits whose
exploitation became economically viable with more advanced mining and metallur-
gical technology. Clearly, published proven reserves are generally conservative
estimates and there is no doubt that probable reserves represent several times
the recoverable copper recorded as proven reserves. In the future, substantial
additional reserves are likely to be discovered in the African, East-Asian,
East-European-Turkish copper belts, as well as in deep sea nodules. If mine
production were to continue at the present rate of exploitation (7 million
tons per year) published proven reserves would be exhausted by the year 2014.
5.        Copper reserves have not only increased with time, but they vary
with copper price level, i.e., reserves depend on the financial return in
copper exploitation. According to the US Bureau of Mines, in 1974, World
copper reserves range from 304 million tons to 418 million tons for prices
of 69 cents/lb. to 102 cents/lb. respectively, as illustrated below.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 3
World Copper Reserves - 1974
(million tons of copper content)
Prices
1974 US cents/lb of refined copper
69 cents/lb 82 cents/lb 102 cents/lb
North America
Canada                                           30             34           40
USA                                              75             84          104
Others                                           20             22           27
South America
Chile                                            53             59           73
Peru                                              21            24           29
Others                                             5             5            6
Europe                                                 15            17            21
Africa
Zaire                                             18            21           25
Zambia                                           26             30           36
Other                                              6             7            9
Asia                                                   22            25            30
Oceania                                                13            14            18
WORLD (ex-CPE)                                  304            342          418
Source:   US Bureau of Mines.
CPE - centrally planned economies.
B. COPPER SUPPLY AND DEMAND
A market flow chart of copper is given as Chart 2 at the end of
this Annex.
1.   World -/ Copper Supply
6.         The world's copper supply comes from two main sources, either (i)
from primary or mine production or (ii) from secondary or scrap recovery
and is used in two different forms, i.e., either as (i) refined copper from
1/   In this Annex "world" refers to all counters but the "centrally planned
economies".



ANNEX 3-1
Page 4
primary or old or new scrap; or as (ii) scrap for direct use. This inter-
relationship complicates past and projected copper supply statistics and can
be illustrated as follows:
Chart 1: Copper Supply Pattern
Old Scrap-
Consumption                  Drect        
Mine            Refi amng        J  of Refined   Old Scrap       Use of       Scr p
Productiona          AL                Coppe                       Scra 
New Scrap                 New Scrap
New scrap is generated by the fabrication process and recovered at
the manufacturer's plant or refinery. Both old and new scrap are recycled as
refined copper or scrap for direct use by consumers. Most of the scrap
recovered as copper alloy is used directly whereas pure copper scrap is
refined a second time.
Primary or Copper Mine Production
7.        Table 1 on page 5 of this Annex presents the world mine production of
copper (1950-73) and Table 2 (pg. 6) indicates the shares of major copper produc-
ing countries. Copper mine production in the Western World increased by an
average of 3.7% p.a. during the sixties and by 4.3% p.a. during the 1970-73
period. The 5 major copper mining countries, accounting for about 70% of
world output (ex-CPE), are the USA, Canada, Chile, Zambia and Zaire. In 1973
36% of the world's primary copper production was mined in CIPEC-countries
(for details on CIPEC see paras. 26-28) compared to 45.1% in 1959. The de-
creasing production share results from the relative low growth rates of
the Chilean and Zambian mines (2.0% p.a. and 1.8% p.a.) during this period.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 5;
Table 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
WORLD MINE PRODUCTION OF COPPER (1950-1973)
(000 tons copper content)
Western             Other       Total                                      Other        Total
U.S.   Canada    Europe   Japan  Developed  Developed   Chile  Peru  Zambia  Zaire  Developing  Developing  Total
15I'      825      24C      125        39       k 9       1,278         363    30      297    176       14.        1.009      2,2
1951      842      245       129       43       51        1,310         381    32      319    192       150        1,074      2,381-
1952      840      2314      137       54       56        1,321         409    30      330    206       147        1,122      2,4143
1953      841      230       131       59       73        1,334         361    35      373    214       142        1,125      2,459
1954      758      275       130       66       84        1,313         364    38      398    224       148        1,172      2,485
1955      906      296      133        73       92        1,500        433    43       359    235       16].       1,231      2,731
1956    1,002      322       1142      78      101        1,645         488    46      404    251       192        1,386      3,031
1957      986      326       151       82      105        1,650        479    55       436    243       228        1,441      2,09?1
1958      888      313       160       82      127        1,570        465    52       400    238       232        1,387      2,9157
1959      748      359       157       85      148        1,497         545    50      543    282       237        1,657      3,153
196C      980      399       157       89      160        1,785         532   184      576    302       238        1,832      3,61L
1961    1,057      398       171       96      152        1,874         547   198      575    295       221        1,839      3,71L4
1962    1,114      415       181      104      157        1,971         586   165      562    297       23C        1,840      3,811
1963    1,101      411       181      107      172        1,972         601   180      588    271       264        1,904      3,876S
1964    1,131      442       191      106      168        2,038         622   176      632    277       25:        1,960      3,997
1965    1,226      L61       186      10?      152        2,132         585   180      696    289       268        2,018      4,1'9,
1966    1,296      159      178       112      236        2,281        637   200       623    317       28]        2,058      4,339
1967      865      556       182      118      217        1,938        661   193       663    322       286        2,125     4,0t63
1968    1,093      575       200      120      235        2,223        657   213       685    326       31)        2,191     14,14'1
1°69    1,401      520       237      120      258       2,536         688   199       719    364       33L        2, 3014   4,814o
1970    1,560      61o       244      120      307        2,841        686   212       684    387       360        2,329     5, 17(
1971    1,381      655      278       121      335       2,770          708   213      651    407      440'        2,388      5, 1513
1972    1,490      709      297       112      342       2,950         717   230       717    437       567        2,668     5,61 3
1973    1,560      80?      n.a.      i.a.    n.a.        3,250        736   225       710    480       5919       2,750     6,000
Notes:  "World" exclLdes centrally planned economies.  Western Ewrope includes Turkey
and Yugoslavia.
Other Develored Countries = Republic of South Africa and Australia.
Other Develoling Countries = North and South Amlerica, excluding United States,
Canada, Chile, Peru; Africa, excluding Republic of South Africa, Zambia and Zaire,
but including South West Africa; Asia, excluding Japan.
Source: Mleta31gesellschaft AG - Metal Statistics



ANNEX 3-1
Table 2                   Page 6
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
WORLD COPPER MINE PRODUCTION BY MAJOR PRODUCING COUNTRIES
1959        1964          1970         1972             1973 /2
Production  Production   Production   Production    Production
000         000           000           000             000
Country    tons   %    tons   %       tons    %    tons    %        tons    %
USA         748   23.7  1,131 28.3  1,560  30.2  1,490  26.5   1,560   26.0
Canada     359   11.4    442 11.1    610  11.8    709  12.6         800   13.3
CIPEC Countries /1
--Zambia   543   17.2    632 15.8    684  13.2    717  12.8          710   11.8
--Chile    545   17.3    622 15.5    686  13.3    717  12.8          736   12.3
--Zaire    282    9.0    277  6.9    387   7.5    437   7.8          480    8.0
--Peru       50    1.6    176  4.4    212   4.1    230   4.1         225    3.7
sub-
total 1.420   45.1  1,707 42.6  1,969  38.1  2,101  37.5   2,151   35.8
Others      630   19.8    719 18.0  1.029  19.9  1,315  23.4   1,489   24.9
TOTAL    3,153  100.0  3,997 100.0 5,170 100.0  5,618 100.0   6,000  100.0
/1   CIPEC (Conseil Intergouvernmental des Pays Exportateurs de Cuivre) was
formed in 1967.
/2   Estimate.
Source:   Table 1.
8.        Primary copper production is basically a function of available
productive capacity and demand for copper. In recent years actual primary
production often fell short of primary production capacity because of strikes
and other exogenous factors. Copper prices have some short-term influence on
production as copper producers try to increase output at existing mines during
high price periods. However, flexibility of output is not significant. Very
low copper prices influenced primary production in 1960-63: producers cut
down production to maintain a floor price of about 29 cents.
9.        Copper prices influence investment decisions and, therefore, have a
long-term impact on primary production. But in the last decade political fac-
tors were partly responsible for the timing of investment:  Chile, Peru, and
African countries had to change or clearly define their copper policies before
prices and feasible projects alone did not provide sufficient incentives. In
general, it takes between three and six years to open up a new copper mine or
to substantially increase capacity of an existing one.



ANNEt 3-1
Page 7
Table 3
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
WORLD PRODUCTION OF REFINED COPPER
1960    1965   1968      3969    1970    1971    1972      1973
A.  EUROPE
Belgium            220       300    330       286     337     312      314
West Genuany        309      342    407       402     406     400      399
Finland              31       30     36        34      34      32       38
France              ho        h      36-       37      33      29       30
Great Britain      213       227    198        98     206     188      181
Yugoslavia          36        56     70        82      893             130
Sweden              37        50     47        52      5       50       52
Spain               42        59     79        76      83      73       89
Others              46        52     59        62      68      63       60
Sub-total    974     1157   1262      1229    1307    1240    1293       1382
B.  ASIA
India                 9        9      9        10       9      10       10
Japan              248       366    548       629     705     714      810
Tarkey              12         6      9        12      14      16       15
Others                4        4      7         8       9       8       12
Sub-total    272       387    573      659      738     749     847       991
C. AMEICAS
Brazil                3        3      3         4       3       5        5
Chile               226      289    394       453     461     468      461
Canada             378       394    476       407     493     477      495
Mexico               28       46     51        57      54       60      64
Peru                 30       40     38        34      36      33       39
USA                1642     1957   1682      2034    2034    1780    1988
Sub-total   2308      2729   2645     2989    3081    2823    3054       3069
D.  OCEANIA
Australia            84      93     121       139     145    1:63      174
E.  AFRICA
Zaire               11W     151     166      -483     190     196     208
South Africa         12      16      62        61      75      75       79
Rhodesia            ---      15      19        21      13      24       30
Zambia              403     522     551       603     581     534      615
Others                1       1       1         1       1                2
Sub-total    560      706     800       870     870     847     943        984
TOTAL WORLD (ex CPE)  4198    5072    5401       3886    6141    5822    6431       6592



ANNEX 3-1
Page 8
Refined Copper Production
10.       World production of refined copper increased by an average of 4.1%
per year over the 1960-73 period and reached 6.6 million tons in 1973 (see
table 3, page 7). A comparison of the geographical location of the world's
mine production and refinery output (see tables 1, 2, 4) clearly shows that
traditionally refining facilities were located near to consumer markets, such
as Europe, North America and Japan. However, refining facilities in Africa
and South America are being expanded. For example copper mine production in
Africa multiplied by 2.4 from 1952-72 whereas production of refined copper
quadrupled during the same period. The biggest expansion of refinery capacity
occurred, however, in Japan where refined copper output has been increasing by
an average of 11% per annum during the sixties.
Table 4: Geographical Distribution of World Copper Mine
and Refining Production (1970)
Refined                Annual
Mine                  Copper               Production
Production            Production                Increase
(000 tons)   (%)      (000 tons)    (%)           (1960-70)
USA                      1,547       30          2,033      27.0             2.2
Canada                     613       12            593       7.9             2.7
Zambia                     684       13            581       7.7             3.7
Chile                      685       13            461       6.1             7.4
Zaire                      386        7            189       2.5             2.8
Australia                   145       3            145       1.9             5.7
Japan                       119       2            705       9.4            11.0
West Germany                  1       -            406       5.4             2.8
Great Britain                -        -            206       2.7             0
Belgium                      -        -            337       4.5             2.0
Scrap
11.       The supply of copper scrap is rather volatile and fluctuates with
the price of refined copper, recovery cost and the degree of scarcity of certain
copper products on the market. As indicated in table 5 the production of new
and old scrap decreased by 10% from a high of 3.5 million tons in 1969 to
3.1 million tons in 1972. Scrap is primarily used directly by manufacturers,
so that secondary refined copper amounted to only 24% of total scrap production.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 9
Table 5
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
WORLD SCRAP PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION (1952-72)
Secondary Refined Copper                  Scrap for Direct Use            L
A of Refned Copper                           of Refind Copper        Price
000 tons Production  Consumption   000 tons  Production  Gonsumptlon  (US cents/lb)
1952       455        16.2        16.2        1,226        43.6        43.7        32.4
1953       530        17.9        20.0        1,310        44.4        49.4        31.4
1954       605        20.0        21.2        1,362        45.0        47.6        31.1
1955       665        20.0        20.5        1,562        47.0       48.1         32.8
1956       583        16.5        17.5        1,472        41.7        44.3        43.9
1957       539        15.3        16.2        1,375        39.0        41.4        1a.1
1958       561        16.4        16.8        1,321        38.5        39.5        27.4
1959       601        16.6        17.0        1,503        41.6        42.4        24.7
1960       618        14.6        16.2        1,489        35.1        38.7        29.8
1961       674        15.4        16.6        1,595        36.6        38.6        30.8
1962       629        14.4        15.2        1,651        37.7        40.0        28.7
1963       658        14.8        14.9        1,763        39.6        40.0        29.3
1964       800        16.8        16.3        2,035        42.8        41.4        43.9
1965       942        18.6        18.7        2,103        41.6       41.7         58.5
1966       984        19.0        18.8        2,065        39.9       39.4         69.3
1967       965        20.2        19.7        1,933        40.5       39.5         51.0
1968     1,014        18.8        19.6        2,104        39.0       40.7         56.2
1969     1,128        19.2        19.7        2,370        40.4       41.4         66.4
1970     1,147        18.7        19.8        2,179        35.5        37.5        49.1
1971       823        14.1        14.5        2,193        37.7        38.5        48.6
1972       743        11.8        12.0        2,314        36,7       37.4         80.6
Average 1952-72       16.9       17.4                      39.7       40.7
Source: SGIK estimate



Table 6                       ANNEX 3-1
Page 10
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
WORLD REFINED AND SCRAP COPPER PRODUCTION
(million tons)
1960   1965    1969    1970    1971    1972
Refined Production
Primary                 3.58   4.13    4.76    4.99    5.00    5.69
Secondary               0.62   0.94    1.13    1.15    0.82    0.74
Sub-total             4.20   5.07    5.89    6.14    5.82    6.43
Direct Use of Scrap         1.49   2.10    2.37    2.18    2.19    2.31
Total                 5.29   7.17    8.26    8.32    8.01    8.74
Scrap Recovery /1           2.11   3.04    3.50    3.33    3.01    3.05
% of total             39.8   42.4    42.4    40.0    37.5    35.0
/1   Secondary refined copper and scrap for direct use.
In the long-run scrap will account on the average for not more than
40% of the world copper production. Scrap has been recovered primarily from
cables, transformers, motors etc. so that with growing substitution of copper
by aluminum the availability of scrap is likely to decline. However on the
other hand improvements in scrap recovery technologies may make the production
of secondary copper more economical.
Copper Stocks
13.       Copper stocks play an important role as market indicators and can
generally cause respective price movements. At the London Metal Exchange
(IRE) warehouse stocks were of the order of 20,000 tons in mid-June 1974
compared to about 200,000 tons at the beginning of 1973. However, information
on total stocks held by producers, trade and users is difficult to obtain and
its analysis causes some problems. Stocks are also being held by some govern-
ments. The most important government stockpile used to be held in the U.S.
For many years the stockpile target stood at 750,000 short tons but actual
stocks of 250,000-350,000 short tons were held. In early 1974, a decision was
taken to sell all stockpiled copper and the sales program completed, without
any market disruption as supply was very tight. Stockpile sales were made
according to bids received and selling prices were considerably higher than
the US producers' price. The rapid build up of stocks by Japanese producers
had by mid 1974 become a dominant force in the market exerting downward pressure
on the price.
2.   World Copper Demand
Uses of Copper
14.       Copper's technical qualities, mainly its electric conductivity,
corrosion resistance, thermal conductivity, malleability, ductibility and



ANNEX 3-1
Page 11
easiness of join, make it one of the most important materials of modern
industry. The use of copper and its alloys is universal. They are prac-
tically synonymous with all things electrical and have myriad uses in elec-
trical equipment and supplies, construction, transportation, communications,
appliances, utensils, jewelry and other applications.
The breakdown of copper consumption in different industrial sectors
is shown below. It does vary only slightly between countries and no marked
differences exist between consumption patterns in developed and developing
countries.
Table 7: Copper Consumption by Sector
Sector                 USA /1             West Germany /2            UK /2
(%)                    (%)                   (%)
Electrical             52.0                    56.8                  43.0
Construction           18.0                    15.4                  24.0
Machinery              12.4                    14.5                  12.5
Transportation          9.4                     9.2                  14.5
Other                   8.2                     4.1                   6.0
/1   1972 industrial survey.
/2   1967 figures.
The largest use of copper is in electrical equipment and supplies,
communications, including electronics, telephone and telegraph wire and cable.
The manufacture of electric motors, power generator sets, dynamotors, fans,
industrial controls, power distribution systems and electrical instruments
require large quantities of copper for the best electrical performance. While
aluminum is used for virtually all high-voltage overhead power transmission
lines, copper presently dominates in underground line and small wire markets,
since copper is corrosion resistant.
15.       The noncorrosive properties of copper and its alloys result in many
uses in building construction for roofing, plumbing, builders' hardware and
functional decorative applications. Copper finds also widespread application
in the production of many types of nonelectrical industrial machinery, such as
heat exchangers, turbines, oil baffles, check valves, plates, sheets, bars
and copper tubing. About 10% of the copper consumed in the world is used in
transportation including motor vehicles, railroads, and marine uses. This
results both from the trend toward greater convenience and comfort such as
power windows, seats, brakes, steering and airconditioning, but also from the
more utilitarian uses in radiators, heaters, defrosters, oil lines, etc.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 12
Substitution
16.       While the properties of copper are almost irreplaceable in some
applications it faces competition in other areas of consumption from alumunum,
plastics, steel, glass, and other materials. In many uses requiring conduction
of heat or electrical energy, aluminum has displaced copper. There has been
an accelerated shift to the use of steel for brass in shell cases and printed
electrical circuits have come into the field as substitute of copper wire.
17.       Aluminum and stainless steels have also reduced the use of copper
in the building industry. Technology has furthered substitution for copper by
the introduction of the numerous cladmetals, including copper clad which use
proportionally less copper per unit. Plastic tubing substitutes for some
copper pipe in many applications in the building and automotive industries.
18.       The reasons for substitution are not only periods of short supply
of copper resulting in high price levels but also sustained price fluctuations
which creates uncertainty among manufacturers. Reverse substitution is rela-
tively difficult. Substitution for an end-user involves extensive retooling
and planning so that reverse substitution is only likely to occur if there
are unforeseen problems with substitute materials.
19.       Substitution has not been clearly felt because copper consumption
has been growing in absolute terms. This has been mainly due to the over-
proportional growth of the electrical and transport sectors where copper has
an established position. As this dynamism is likely to continue, there should
be scope for both further substitution and steady growth of copper consumption.
The impact of higher energy cost on aluminum and plastic prices cannot yet be
assessed. On the one hand if copper prices increase less rapidly than prices
of its substitute materials, the substitution trend may halt or even reverse,
on the other hand new production processess, for aluminum for example, could
reduce costs substantially in the next 5-10 years, while no great technological
breakthrough is expected in the copper industry.
Consumption Pattern
20.       World copper consumption increased steadily over the past 20 years.
Tables 10-12 give the world's past consumption for primary, refined and total
copper demand during the 1952-73 period and their growth rates are summarized
below (Table 9).
..



Table 9                   ANNEX 3-1
Page 13
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
WORLD COPPER CONSUMPTION GROWTH RATES
(% per year)
1952-58     1958-68    1968-73
Primary Copper Consumption                    3.6         4.4         5.5
Refined Copper Consumption                   4.4          4.4         4.6 /1
Total Copper Consumption /2                  3.6          4.5         4.1 /1
/1   1968-72 period only.
/2   including secondary copper (scrap).
Following the decrease of copper consumption between 1970-71, world
consumption of refined and total copper has grown by about 8% per year.
(Tables 10-12).



ANNEX 3-1
Table 10                                        Page 14
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
WORLD REFINED COPPER CONSUMPTION (1950-1972)
(000 tons of c:opper content)
Developed Countries
Western Europe                           Other         Total
Other      Total        Japan    Developed    Developed    Developing
USA     Canada       EEX,   UK  W. Europe   W. Europe                Countries    Countries    Countries       Total
1950     1,292      97         4412   410      154       1,006          60          51         2,506         104         2,610
1951     1,285     122         492   410       155       1,057          91         57          2,612         135         2,747
1952     1,342     118         48(    429      171       1,080          96          55         2,691         116         2,807
1953     1,356      96         468    327      161         956          95          51         2,554          99         2,653
1954     1,138      93         689    455      203       1,347          98          55         2,731         128         2,859
1955     1,363     126         756    504      204       1,464         105          68         3,126         120         3,246
1956     1,380     132         756    510      226       1,492         147          64         3,215         108         3,323
1957     1,227     107         828    516      255       1,599         168          78         3,179         146         3,325
1958     1,135     111         875    543      265       1,683         147          86         3,162         186         3,348
1959     1,327     118         8710   487      265       1,622         219          85         3,371         170         3,541
1960     1,225     107       1,062    560      309       1,931         304          98         3,664         180         3,8144
1961     1,327     129       1,132    529      342       2,003         373          90         3,922         ]95         4,117
1962     1,459     138       1,062    526      329       1,917          301        107         3,922         205         4,127
1963     1,590     160       1,087    558      333       1,978         352         114         4,194         218         4,412
1964     1,690     190       1,20D    633      353       2,186         457         133         4,656         255         4,911
1965     1,846     209       1,169    650      352       2,171         427         135         4,788         255         5,043
1966     2,158     248       1,082    592      338       2,012         482         138         5,038         199         5,237
1967     1,798     205       1,123   514       342       1,979         616         116         4,714         182         4,896
1968     1,701     232       1,284    539      355       2,178         695        132         4,938          233         5,171
1969     1,944     222       1,405   547       393       2,345         807        140          5,458         264         5,722
1970     1,854     229       1,486    554      435       2,475         821        157          5,536         268         5, 804
1971     1,823     220       1,433   511       401       2,345         826         144         5,358         332         5,690
1972     2,023     224       1,535    525      427       2,487         95'4       145          5,833         360         6 193
1973     2,175    248       1,670    546       435       2,651       1,167        176         6,1417         3r2          o,799
Notes:  "World" excludes centrally planned economies.
Refined copper includes copper refined from old and scrap material.
Other Western Elmope and Total Western E.irope include Yugoslavia.
Other Developed Countries: Republic of South Africa and Australia.
Developing Countries: North and South Afwrica except United States and Canada; Africa except
Republic of South Africa, and Asia (excluding Japan but including Tirkey).
Source: Metallgesellschaft AG, Metal Statistics.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 15
table 11
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
WORLD PRIMARY COPPER CONSUMPTION (1950-1972)
Iuuu tons or copper content)
Developed Countries
Western Earope                            Other        Total
Other      Tot al      Japan    Developed   Developed    Developing
USA     Canada      EEC      UK     W. Europe  W. E=ope                Countries   Countries    Countries         Total
1950     1,073        97      309       341        132        782         12          51         2,015          101         2,116
1951     1,135       122      358       336        118        812         41          57         2,167          131         2,298
1952     1,203       118      358      353         142        853         51          55         2,280         111          2,391
1953     1,162        96      327      247         131        705         68          51         2,082          94          2,176
1954       951        93      522       374        174      1,070         56          55         2,225         122          2,347
1955     1,144       126      560      403         168      1,131         73          66         2,540         117          2,657
1956     1,143       132      579      407         194      1,180        113          49         2,617         105          2,722
1957     1,012       107      692      426         224      1,342        134          66         2,661         141          2,802
1958       911       112      737      452         233     1,422         126          70        2,641          180          2,821
1959     1,100       118      697      1403        228      1,328        180          75         2,801         167          2,96B
1960       960       107      878      465         275     1,618         243          87         3,015         177          3,192
1961     1,072       129      974      446         292     1,712         299          74         3,286         191          3,477
1962     1,211       137      881      441         285      1,607        243          96         3,294         203          3,497
1963     1,329      160       934      455         297     1,686         309          97        3,581          214          3,795
1964     1,387      190    1,040       523         316     1,879         398         112        3,966          252          4,218
1965     1,456       209      982      532         302     1,816         362         100        3,943          256          4,199
1966     1,729       248      884      458         276     1,618         397         115        4,107          193          4,300
1967     1,440      205       938      395         274     1,607         549          87        3,888          179          4,067
1968     1,337       232    1,061      403         292     1,756         624          98        4,047          230          4,277
1969     1,516      221    1,171       398         336     1,905         699         103        4,444          263          4,707
1970     1,420      229    1,237       397         371     2,005         718         115        4,487          268          4,755
1971     1,487      220    1,219       373         364     1,956         723         118        4,504          313          4,817
1972     1,676       224    1,339      404         378     2,121         850         103        4,974          352          5,326
Notes:  Data usually represent prodiction plus imports minus eicports plus ar minus changes
in stocks to the extent thatinformation is available, i.e, they represent the quantity
of crude metal apparertly available for consumption.  However, in the case of countries
.iieh nxw compu1.e either deliveries of crude metal to cDnsumers or output by works of
the first processing stage, the figures thus obtained are used.
"World" excludes centrally planned economies.
Western Europe includes Yugoslavia; data for Tirkey not separately available.
Other Developed Countries: Republic of South Africa, Aastralia and Oceania.
Developing Countries: North and South Anerica, except United States and Canada;
Africa except Republic of South Africa, and Asia except Japan
Source: Xetallgesellschaft AG, Metal Statistics



ANNEX 3-1
Page 16
Table 12
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
WORLD COPPER PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION
(million tons of copper content)
PRODUCTION -------------------------CONSUMPTION-----------------------.---
Refined        Scrap        Total          crap Consumption
(Mine)     Copper       Direct Use    Consumption     Total        %
1952      2.44         2.81         1.23          4.o4           1.67        41
1953      2.46         2.65         1.31          3.96           1.84        46
1954      2.48         2.86         1.36          4.22           1.96        46
1955      2.73         3.25         1.56          4.91            2.22       45
1956      3.03         3.32         1.47          4.79            2.05       43
1957      2.09         3.32         1.37          4.69           1.91        41
1958      2.96         3.35         1.32          4.67           1.89        40
1959      3.15         3.54         1.50          5.oo           2.10        43
1960      3.62         3.84         1.49          5.33           2.11        39
1961      3.71         4.12         1.60          5.72           2.26        39
1962      3.81         4.13         1.65          5.78           2.27        39
1963      3.88         4.41         1.76          6.17           2.42        38
1964      4.00         4.91         2.03          6.94           2.83       41
1965      4.15         5.04         2.10          7.14           3.04        42
1966      4.34         5.24         2.06          7.30           3.14       43
1967      4.06         4.90         1.93          6.83           2.89       42
1968      4.41         5.11         2.10          7.27           3.38       46
1969      4.84         5.72         2.37          8.09           3.49       43
1970      5.17?        5.80         2.18          7.98           3.21       40
1971      5.16         5.69         2.19          7.88           3.01       38
1972      5.61         6.19         2.31          8.50           3.15       37
1973      6.00         6.80         n.a.          n.a.           n.a.       n.a.
1/  "World" excludes centrally planned economies
Source: Metal Statistics, SCM estimate



ANNEX 3-1
Page 17
21.        Consumption of refined copper is heavily concentrated in the de-
veloped countries. In 1973, the USA, Canada, Western Europe and Japan ac-
counted for nearly 92% of western world consumption of refined copper.
Growth of refined copper consumption is closely correlated with growth of
industrial production 1/ and averaged 4.4% for the developed countries during
the 1952-73 period. Although the long-term growth pattern has been steady
during the sixties and seventies regional growth rates varied substantially
as indicated below:
Table 13: Refined Copper Consumption Growth in Selected Areas
(% per annum)
Developed Countries                         1952-73                1968-73
USA                                      2.5                   5.1
Canada                                   3.7                   1.2
EEC                                      6.1                   5.4
UK                                       1.2                   0.4
Western Europe                           4.4                   3.9
Japan                                   13.4                   9.5
Total Developed Countries          4.4                    5.37
Developing Countries
Brazil                                   7.6                  19.6
Total Developing Countries         5.6                   10.5
WORLD                                         4.43                   5.4
22.        Copper consumption increased substantially in developing countries
with the beginning of industrialization. In Brazil copper consumption grew
about 60% more rapidly than other economic indicators--a phenomenon which
had been observed in Japan during the coming decade and to correlate more
closely with industrial production growth as in Europe and the USA. The
portion of Europe's refined copper consumption in the Western World which
reached 50% in 1958, appears likely to stabilize now at about 40%.
3.   International Trade
23.       Almost all international transactions of copper are made in primary
copper. Exports of scrap seldom occur, and are limited nearly exclusively
to U.S. exports. International trade of copper as represented by net ex-
1/   On average the copper growth rate has been equivalent to 80% of the
industrial production growth rate. However, copper growth rates may
exceed industrial growth in rapidly expanding economies.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 18
ports 1/ includes shipments of concentrates, blister and refined metal. The
trade matrix given in Table 14 indicate the ranking of copper importing and
exporting countries. In 1970, the major importing countries were West
Germany, UK, Belgium, the USA and Japan, while Zambia, Chile and Zaire lead
the copper export countries.
24.       As illustrated by Table 14 below net export of copper concentrates,
blister and refined metal amounted to 3.42 million tons in 1973 compared to
2.74 million tons in 1969, or an increase of 7% per annum.
During the seventies the major increase of exports occurred in ores and con-
centrates from developed countries, such as Canada and the USA and non-
CIPEC developing countries such as Papua-New Guinea and the Philippines.
Net exports of ore and concentrates grew at an average 24%.
25.       It is debatable if the trend of shipping concentrates will con-
tinue. On the one hand, the copper consuming countries Japan, Europe, and
the U.S. have expanded their smelter and refining capacities over the past
years and are anxious to sign long-term delivery contracts for concentrates.
The cheaper and more efficient handling and transport techniques have made
it possible to shift smelting and refining of concentrates from the mine
sites to the consumer countries' ports. On the other hand, the copper ex-
porting countries will try to maximize export earnings and domestic value
added and encourage the mining companies to expand smelting and refining on
site. In addition, strict pollution control in developed countries parti-
cularly the USA and Canada may favor treatment of the copper concentrates in
developing countries, although smelters have been able to operate competi-
tively in Europe for many years under pollution regulations that have just
been adopted in the U.S.
CIPEC
26.       CIPEC (Conseil intergouvernemental des pays exportateurs de cuivre)
was formed in 1967 by Zambia, Chile, Zaire and Peru. In 1972, these four
countries accounted for 37.5% of the world's copper mine production, 20.6%
of refined copper production and 57% of copper exports, as detailed in Table
15. During the CIPEC conference in Lima in November 1975, Indonesia was
accepted as a full member and Australia and Papua/New Guinea as associates.
As a consequence all CIPEC countries together could account for about 70% of
copper exports.
1/   Net exports is defined here as total exports minus exports of the net
importer countries.



Table 14                             ANNEX 3-1
Page 19
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
NET COPPER EXPORT (1969-73)
Ores
Countries     and Concentrates          Blister               Refined               Total
1969       1973       1969      1973      1969       1973       1969       1973
000        000        000       000       000        000-       000        000
tons  %    tons  %   tons  %  tons  %   tons  %   tons  %   tons  %   tons  %
Developed
Countries   163   38   398   39  109  14  108   15  270   17  394   23  524   20  900   26
CIPEC        100   23   177   17  623  82  560   80 1259   82 1275   75 1982   72 2012   59
Other Devel-
oping coun-
tries       166   39   449   44   31   4   27    4   18    1   35    2  215    8  511   15
1429  100  1024  100  763 100  695  100 1547  100 1704  100 2739  100 3423  100
% of Type
of Product
in Total Net
Exports          16%       29%        28%       19%       56%        52%       100%       100%



Table 15                    ANNEX 3-1
Page 20
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
COPPER PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS OF CIPEC COUNTRIES (1972)
(000 tons)
Mine                 Refined
Production             Production       Net Exports
000                    000              000
tons    %              tons    %        tons      %
CIPEC
Zambia            717   12.8             615    9.6        710   20.5
Chile             717   12.8             461    7.2        634   18.3
Zaire             437    7.8             208    3.2       433   12.5
Peru              230    4.1              39    0.6        203    5.8
Sub-Total    2,091   37.5            1,323   20.6    1,980   57.2
World (EX-CPE)       5,618  100.0            6,431  100.0    3,460  100.0
27.       The objectives of this organization are the development of the
copper industry in these countries, the maximization and stabilization of
copper export earnings and the manufacture of copper products in CIPEC coun-
tries. In the past CIPEC has not been very successful in achieving these
goals. There have been recurrent statements by CIPEC member countries and
expectations in the copper trade that CIPEC would try to "stabilize" the
copper price or at least introduce a floor price. It is argued that coopera-
tion between CIPEC and major integrated copper producers in industrialized
countries could produce an OPEC-type action with good chances for success.
However, copper producing countries are not in as strong a position as the
OPEC countries: first; substitution of copper by other metals would be a
major reason for limited price increases; second; the foreign exchange re-
serves of the CIPEC countries are relatively low, so that the risks of taking
sustained actions will be considerable; and third; in view of widely dif-
ferent interests between CIPEC members and copper companies in the developed
countries, the formation of a copper cartel or coordinated oligopolistic
action of copper producers is unlikely in the near future.
28.       It is noteworthy in this context that production costs in CIPEC
countries show substantial differences. At the same time all CIPEC members
recently announced major expansion plans and some new projects are already
being implemented. Many of the new projects are being developed in coopera-
tion with copper companies based in developed countries. It does not appear
that, as yet, there is any coordination of expansion plans.



AN   3-1
Table 16
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECTED WORLD CAPACITY OF MINE PRODUCTION (1980)
(000 tons of copper content)
Actual Production      Projected Capacity in 1980
in 1972             Low             Risgh        lit Likely
Developing Countries
Latin America
Bolivia                                  8                  10               20                10
Chile                                  717              1,000            1,200             1,1000
Mexico                                  79                 140              275                UW
Peru                                   217                 400              500               450
Panama                                   0                   0              100                 0
Others                                   9                  10               20               15
Sub -to tal                                    1,560            2,115             1 7 7
Africa LL'C
Rhodesia                                32                  35               45               40
Mauritania                              15                  20               25                20
Zaire                                  437                 700              850               780
Zambia                                 718                 900              970              900
S.W. Africa                             22                  55             (
Others                                  19                                                   100
Sub-total                   1=243                               __7_1
Asia/Oceania LtC
Philippines                            214                 265              300              280
Iran                                     0                 100             140               100
Indonesia                                5                  70               70               70
Papua N.G.                             124                 175              270              220
Others                                  46                 115              130              115
Sub-total                     ___                 725             ___
LDC Total                            2,662               4,040            5,045             4,400
Developed Countries
W. Europe                              297                 445              500              445
Japan                                  112                  50              100               75
USA                                  1,510               2,030            2,130            2,030
Canada                                 709               1,000            1,150            1,000
Australia                              181                 260              350              260
S. Africa                              162                 200              240              220
Sub-total                   27                     97
World (excl. CPEs)                      5.633               8.025            9,515             aA30
Nates on Assumptions and Sources:
Mine Production in 1972 - World Bureau of Metal Statistics
Chile: High - estimated by 13RD Latin America Region; Low - only a gradual progress to
beflde in 1974 - 1980.
Meico:  High - completion of both La Verde ad La Caridad; Low - cemletion of La Wtor
Perut Nigh - Suajone, Cerro Verde, Tintaya, AntFua plu  an additional capacity; Low -
oT Oeajote snd Cerro Verde. No expanaion of existing facilities.
Panama:  High - partial completion of Cerro Colorado; Low - none.
2ireT  High - GECAMINES expanding capacity up to 620,000 tons by 1980, plus completion
ofrirnsenda (60,000 tons) and Tenke-Fungurume; Low - completion of the GECAMINES expansion
plus a part of Tenke-Fungurume in operation.
Zambia: High - IBRD East Africa Region projects 900,000 tons for 1978, an additional
76,'   tons to be completed by 1980; Low - The planned 900,000-ton capacity to be com-
pleted by 1980.
Other African LDC'st High/Low - estimates by Coeatdities and Export Projections Division.
Philippines:  High - completion of Dison and Inco Capaysng plus a further 35,000-ton
capacity.
Iran: High - completion of Oalhe Zari and Sar Chassmeh; Low - Oalhe Zari plus partial com-
pr ion of Sar Cheameh.
Iudonesia: High/Low - full production from Ertsbcrg.
Papua New Guineat High - full production of Bougainville plus Kennecott's Ok Tedi; Low -
ro'Ul production of Bougainville only.
Other Countries: High - Ihetri/Kolihan and Rakha in India, Naut in Malaysia plus an
arbitrary addition of 15,000-ton capacity sosewhe.-e, possibly in Thailand; Low - ODly
Thetri/Itlihan, Rakha and Mmut.
Western Europe: Low - existing capacity (310,000 tons) plus Bor/Krivelj in Yugoslavia,
stmi""pu7Wnos in Finland, Boliden/Aitik in Sweden, Avoca in Eire, RTZ's Cerro  ODlorado
in Spain, and Bakibaba/tapiye/Kure in Turkey; High - in addition to the projects mentioned
above, an arbitrary addition of 55,000 tons.
Japan: High/Low - estimates by the CEPD taling at count of pollution problems and possible
government policies to support high-cost mines.
U[Ai: Low - taking account of all the projects li,,ted by the Phelps Dodge (PD)'s latest
sFurvey of projects assumed to be in operation by 1976, plus additional 18,000 tons; high -
the "low" estimate above plus an arbitary addition of 100,000 tone to allow for possible
new projects to be completed in 1977-80.
Canada:  Low - assmed production from all the projecte listed by PD for 1973-76 minus
40,00  tons; high - projects listed by PD for 1973-76 plus an arbitrary 110,000 tons to
allow for possible new projects.
Australias Low - Mt. Isa and Peko-Warrego in 1973, Cobar-CSA in 1974, Cobar-Obeaney,
Pacific Copper-Cadia and Jododex in 1975, no further additions in 1976-80; High - above-
mentioned projects plus an arbitrary 90,000 tons to allow for possible nev projects.
South Africa:  Low - full production from Prieska, no further projects; High - production
f helDs 'Dodge's Cape Province property (40.000 t).



ANNEX 3-1
Page 22
4.   Supply/Demand Prospects
World Supply of Primary Copper
29.       A projection of world copper mine capacity is subject to a more
than usual uncertainty at this time. Based on estimates made by industry
sources and by Bank staff, world mine capacity in 1980 has been projected
by region and by country as presented in Table 16. "Low", "High" and "Most
Likely" estimates are shown for major countries and regions for 1980.
World mine capacity is projected to increase from 6.6 million tons at the
beginning of 1974 to 8.1-9.5 million tons by 1980. No detailed projection
by country or region is possible for 1985.
30.       Latin American capacity depends largely on developments in Chile
in the coming 6 years; mine capacity could increase to 1.16 million tons or
could increase only moderately to 1.0 million tons by 1980. Peru also will
be a significant factor with numerous projects in the planning stage. Peru
and Chile present the largest uncertain factor on the supply side of the
world copper market for the next several years. Beyond 1980, possible de-
velopments in Panama present additional uncertainty due to the possible
development of a large copper mine project, the Cerro Colorado. However,
for the present it seems unlikely that this mine will be in operation by
1980. Other uncertainties in this region exist in Mexico.
31.       Among the developed countries, significant expansions are possible
in the United States, Canada, Australia and South Africa. However, recent
trends in Canada and Australia towards reorientation of their mineral in-
vestment policies could have serioud dampening effects on the pace of in-
vestments in copper mining capacity in these countries.
32.       One of the problems for a rapid expansion of the world copper mine
capacity is the availability of capital. Capital investment required to
establish a capacity to produce refined copper is estimated at around
US$4,000 (in 1974 constant terms) for each annual ton of capacity. 1/ Thus,
if the "high" estimate of projected capacity, i.e., 9 million tons per annum,
is to be realized by 1980, $12 billion (in 1974 constant terms) would be re-
quired to build the additional 3.0 million-ton capacity needed. It is fully
expected that financing constraints will restrict new capacity to about 8.k
million tons (Table 16) with total investment requirements of $5 billion.
1/   Sir Ronald L. Prain gave an estimate of about 3,000 dollars per ton of
refined copper in his speech given in 1971 ("The International Outlook
for Copper", American Metal Market Forum, London 1971). Allowing for
the inflation that has occurred since 1971 and for estimated extra costs
needed for pollution controls in smelting and refining, a rule-of-thumb
estimate of US$4,000 per ton of capacity has been arrived at. This may
be an overestimate to the extent that new capacity results from an ex-
pansion of a:Lready existing capacity.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 23
33.       Table 17 indicates the implications of various possible magnitudes
of annual investment in the world copper industry for (i) additional capacity
to be created by 1980, (ii) total capacity available at the beginning of
1980 and (iii) mine production in 1980. Between the end of 1968 and the end
of 1973, world mine capacity increased from 4.98 million tons to 6.61 mil-
lion tons, by 0.41 million tons per annum, or at 7.2% per annum.
Table 17:   Investment and Capacity Creations in the World Copper Industry
Annual Investment   Additional Capacity   Total Capacity   Probable output
in Copper Industry  (incl. metallurgical  at beginning of  in 1980, implied
in 1974-1979        capacity) by 1980 /2         1980         by capacity /3
US$ million /1      --------------- million tons per year -----------------
1,000               1.5                        8.1             7.5
1,200               1.8                        8.4             7.8
1,400               2.1                        8.7             8.1
1,600               2.4                        9.0             8.4
2,200               3.3                        9.9             9.2
/1   In constant 1974 dollars.
/2   Capacity at the beginning of 1974 is 6.6 million tons.  Each annual
ton of capacity is assumed to require an investment of 4,000 dollars.
/3   Estimated at 93% of capacity available at the beginning of the year.
Source: IBRD Commodities & Export Projections Division.
Supply/Demand Balance
34.       At this time copper demand projections are extremely difficult.
On the one hand, a continuing economic slow down in the developed countries
may limit copper consumption growth, while on the other hand, copper may
also benefit from the relatively more rapid increase in the prices of alum-
inum and petrochemicals. Although it will probably not regain markets pre-
viously lost to aluminum, copper's competitive position vis-a-vis aluminum
and plastics, have now improved as a result of sharp increases in petroleun
prices.
For the purpose of this report two hypotheses for future refined copper con-
sumption will be analyzed:
a)   Hypothesis I assumes that while economic growth in
developed countries and non-oil-exporting develop-
ing countries might somewhat slow down in the



ANNEX 3-1
Page 24
coming decade, industrialization in oil-exporting
countries would accelerate in the future and there-
fore consumption of refined copper will grow at
4.5% per annum in line with the long-term growth
trend of consumption over the 1950-73 period.
b)   Hypothesis II assumes that world consumption of
refined copper will increase by 3% per annum until
1977 and 4.0% per annum, thereafter in view of the
present economic stagnation and inflation. Hypo-
thesis II represents the most likely demand fore-
cast.
35.       As presented in table 14, world refined copper consumption would
increase by 1980 to 9.2 million tons under hypothesis I and 8.8 million tons
under hypothesis II. In contrast, projected refined copper supply for the
Western World is estimated at 9.3 million tons in 1980. During the seven-
ties there is a slight possibility of an oversupply of refined copper rang-
ing from 100,000 tons per year to 700,000 tons depending on the accuracy of
projected consumption growth rate. An additional reservation must be made:
The supply/demand balance assumes that over the coming 5 years the supply
of secondary refined copper will remain at about 15% of total refined copper
production. However, since the supply of secondary copper has been extremely
price elastic, it may well be that with falling prices during an oversupply
situation the supply of secondary refined copper would drop, and thus exact
a new market equilibrium.
C. PRICES
1.   Pricing System
36.       Copper is priced in three main markets, the London Metal Exchange
(LME) the Commodity Exchange in New York (COMEC) and the producer controlled
markets.
LME
37.       The London Metal Exchange is the most important "pricing" market
for copper. Less than 10% of copper sales are actually delivered from LME
stocks, but the bulk of copper's international trade is refined copper is
undertaken directly by producers and consumers at prices prevailing at the
LME around the date of shipment. Metal dealers also quote LME prices for
their transactions. The LME operates on both cash and future contracts
which allows hedging operations against inventory losses and currency re-
alignments. During 1973 and 1974 there has been an increase in non-industry
speculations in copper to hedge against inflation and exchange rate changes.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 25
38.       The LME is European biased since it reflects mainly the short
term supply-demand outlook in Europe, where its warehouses are located (UK,
Germany, Holland and Belgium). Due to its physical thinness and marginal
character speculation exaggerates ups and downs on a very short time basis,
so that daily up and downs of more than 5% are not uncommon.
39.       Usually, sales contracts for refined copper are signed on an
annual basis and specify twelve monthly quotas to be shipped by the seller.
Prices are related to the LME's settlement price (wirebars' moving seller
cash prices) on a cif basis. The typical buyer can price his quotas during
a 2 month period (covering the shipment date) selecting the prices of any
particular day and communicate it to the seller not later than noon of the
following day. Certain restrictions to this pricing mechanism do exist,
e.g., not more than 25% of a monthly quota can be priced in one day and not
more than 50% in one week. On the average the buyers can gain a fraction of
a cent per pound by carefully choosing the pricing days. Copper concen-
trates are bought on long-term contracts which can be as long as 10-15
years, but will generally be at the order of 3-5 years. Pricing is usually
based on the monthly average of the LME cash wirebar quotations/minus treat-
ment costs.
COMEX
40.       The Commodity Exchange in New York is smaller and far less signi-
ficant than the LME, but trades cash and future contracts of up to 114
months. Prices are influenced by the U.S. producer price. Due to arbitra-
tion, COMEX quotes differ usually not more than a few cents/lb. from the
LME price quotation.
Producer Prices
41.       The U.S., Canada and the COMECON countries trade copper on the
basis of producer prices, a selling price fixed by the producers which is
generally kept unchanged for several months. Chile and Zambia quoted pro-
ducer prices until 1967 when the CIPEC countries decided to trade according
to LME price quotations. The following table compares producers and LME
prices during the 1960-73 period.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 26
2.   Past Copper Price Development
42.       Copper prices have not fallen appreciably below the 30 cent level
since the end of the Korean war, except briefly in 1957/58.  Annual averages
of both U.S. Producer and London Metal Exchange (LIE) prices fluctuated in a
range of 29-32 cents per pound (33.5-37.0 cents per pound at 1968 prices)
form 1953/54 to 1964.  They rose about 40 percent above this range (to over
40 cents per pound) in 1955/56, and fell about 15-20 percent below it in
1957/58 (to 25.8 cents per pound in the U.S. and to 24.7 cents per pound on
the LME).
43.       During the 1953-63 period the copper trade generally believed that
major primary producers regarded 30 cents per pound in the U.S. (and a
slightly lower LME quotation) as a target price. In the early 1960's non-US
producers intervened directly in the LME to hold the price above 29 cents at
a time when excess capacity caused all major producers to cut production.
In 1965, non-US producers set a price of 29.5 cents independently of the LME.
44.       Since 1965 copper prices have risen far above the earlier "normal"
level. Even in the U.S. where Government pressure held the domestic copper
price to 36 cents until the end of 1966, it subsequently rose to 61 cents by
April, 1970. Outside the U.S. prices have risen much faster. Since the
outset of 1965 the LME price has never been less than 45 cents. In March
1966, when producer pricing was abandoned, LME spot price quotations reached
85 cents per pound. This was followed by a decline and then another peak at
78 cents in March, 1968 during the U.S. copper strike. Prices declined in
the spring and summer of 1968 after the strike was settled, but another rise
started in mid-1968, continued over 1969, and in 1970, reached monthly aver-
ages of 73 cents in January; 75 cents in February; and 79 cents in March.
The LME average price for 1970 was 64 cents, only slightly below the 1969
average of 66 cents. However, prices had started a new decline in April
1970, falling to 47 cents in December of that year. Industrial production
slowed down, copper stocks increased, and only production difficulties in
some producer countries kept prices above the 45 cents average. This situation
did not basically change in 1972. Stocks continued to increase and the LME
price averaged 49 cents for the year. The dispute between Kennecott and
Chile brought an additional element of uncertainty to the world copper market
which helped maintain price levels despite the increase in stocks. Early
in 1973 the problems in Chile, various strikes at mines and refineries elsewhere
and transport problems in Zambia pushed copper prices upwards. The new
monetary crisis, the devaluation of stocks and substantial increase in the
free gold price added to the pressure on copper prices. During January-March
1973 the LME price averaged 59 cents and daily quotations went above 70 cents
in March for the first time since 1970. Other extraordinary events followed,
including the largest number of "forces majeure" in any year since 1945,
the highest rate of international economic growth in many years, and strong
world inflation. All these factors played a role in pushing LME prices to
$1.20/lb. in early December. Price escalation was encouraged by massive
speculation in commodities which accompanied the monetary and the oil crises.



ANNEX 3-1
Page 27
45.       The volatility of the world copper market in the period 1964-72
was due to a number of factors, the most important of which were: a) un-
certainties connected with the 1964 presidential elections in Chile, and
with Zambia becoming independent in 1965; b) a U.S. maritime strike in 1965;
c) miners' strikes in Chile (1965/66), the U.S. (1967/68), and Canada (1969);
d) sales from the U.S. copper stockpile (1966); e) delayed implementation of
copper expansion programs; f) monetary crises leading to devaluations of
sterline (1967), and of the French franc (1968), as well as revaluation of
German mark (1969), and new currency alighnments at the end of 1971 and early
in 1973; g) copper purchases by Communist China and the USSR; h) the economic
boom in industrial nations in 1969, the general slump in economic activity
in 1971/72, and the signs of the new industrial boom appearing late in 1972;
i) the substantial shortfall of Chile's copper production from previously
announced expansion targets; and production or export problems elsewhere
(Zambia, 1971 and 1973; Belgium and Canada, 1973); and j) the impact of US
pollution controls on refinery production (1972/73).
46.       Prices remained high during the first five months of 1974, aver-
aging about $1.20/lb. However, in real terms copper prices in 1973 were
lower than in 1969 and 1970. Even back in 1966 copper prices in real terms
had been 33 percent higher than in 1973 and, however, the early 1974 price
of $1.20/lb. is still slightly above the record high of 1966 (see table 20).
The recent extraordinary price increase seemed to be influenced mainly b)
the following factors: first, uncertainty about the impact of the oil crisis;
second, the unknown size of investment in copper as a hedge against devaluation;
third, the increased demand from China which has been a copper purchaser to
a far greater extent than ever before, though actual figures are not yet
available; fourth the uncertain outlook for a reduction of inflation rates
in all industrialized countries, and finally the possibility of a major
strike in the US copper industry after June 1974 when the 3 year labor
contracts were up for renegotiation.
47.       Copper prices started to decline after June 1974, fell to 62 cents/
lb by October 1974, and continued to drop to less than 55 cents/lb in early
1975 as industrial production slowed down. For the first six months of 1975
the average price has been 56 cents/lb. With the current dramatic drop in
copper prices, most copper producers have cut back production. In many cases,
this has resulted in the closure of high cost mines or inefficient facilities.
The Cipec countries agreed to reduce export by 10% in November 1974, then 15%
in April 1975. These production and export cutbacks were designed to bring
supply closer to demand. However, they have not influenced the current
market because of the substantial decline in demand.
3.  Price Projections
48.       It would appear that price projections, considering the present
uncertainties in the world economy, are even more hazardous than usual. A
number of factors, however, would suggest that the violent price fluctuations
of the past couple of decades may be somewhat dampened in the long term. The



ANNEX 3-1
Page 28
trend to increased state ownership may result in expansion plans more attuned
to national planning rather than cyclical development in the market. The
large integrated producers who dominated the market in the past traditionally
financed expansions from their own cash generation. The drops in market
cycles reduced cash flows and forced postponements of investments, which in
turn tended to compound the cycles. The huge increases in capital costs in
real terms over the past decade have led to an ever increasing use of debt
financing for new projects. This would also lead to ivestment decisions
primarily based on the long term merit of the project regardless of current
price conditions. As far as copper's position vis-a-vis its main competitors,
aluminum and plastics is concerned, copper due to the recent substantial
increases in energy cost, should be in an overall improved situation. There-
fore, no accelerated substitution against copper seems likely.
49.       In the short term, prices will, due to the considerable overhang of
accumulated stocks (in excess of 1 million tons), not move substantially in
1976 although an improvement in the world economy for 1976 is generally fore-
cast. The price for 1975 can now fairly accurately forecast to average about
564/lb. Although prices are forecast to move upward in 1976, they are
expected to average around 67J/lb in 1976 (in current dollar terms).
50.       The medium-term prospects would indicate further price improvement
for the 1977-1979 period, but according to widely accepted forecasts of the
cyclical demand/supply, the price would decline thereafter. However, the
timing of the price downturn would depend on factors such as (i) strength
and duration of economic recovery; (ii) possible US copper strike in 1977;
(iii) effectiveness of producer measures to reduce output; (iv) conclusion
of an international copper agreement, and (v) solution on deterioration of
transport problems in the African producer areas.
51.       Over the long-term expectations are that copper market will fall in
historical patterns of supply and demand. Increased costs of production will
determine the price level. It is generally accepted that copper prices of
about 80 to 854/lb (in 1975 dollars) are necessary to bring forth the neces-
sary investment for sufficient supplies of copper which also would include an
adequate return on investment.
November, 1975
Industrial Projects Department



ANNEX 3-1
Page 29
Table 20
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
NOMINAL AND REAL PRICES OF COPPER (1948-1975)
(In US cents per lb)
Noirdnal
ipper Price      Im ernational        Real Copper Price, LME
LME, Spot          Price Index         Annual  5-year moving
Year       Electr. Wirebar        (1973=100)         (1)-(32)     averages
1948             24.1                 48.8            49.4
1949             21.9                 46.8            46.8
1950             22.4                 49.0            45.7          50.5
1951             27.5                 55.5            49.5          52.2
1952             32.4                 53.2            60.9          53.4
1953             31.4                 54.1            58.o          61.0
1954             31.1                 54.1            57.5          65.2
1955             43.9                 55.5            79.1          62.3
1956             41.1                 58.2            70.6          58.9
1957             27.4                 59.5            46.1          57.3
1958             24.7                 59.8            41.3          51.6
1959             29.8                 60.6            49.2          46.8
1960            30.8                  60.6            50.8          47.1
1961             28.7                 61.3            46.8          48.2
1962             29.3                 61.8            47.4          52.3
1963             29.3                 62.4            46.9          60.5
1964             43.9                 63.2            69.5          72.5
1965             58.5                 63.8            91.8          78.6
1966            69.3                  64.9           106.8          86.6
1967            51.0                  65.5            77.9          92.7
1968            56.2                  64.6            87.0          92.2
1969            66.4                  66.8            99.4          83.8
1970             614.1                71.2            8(.0          79.'
1971            149.1                 76.0            64.6          78.6
1972             48.6                 83.7            58.1          74.0
1973             80.8                100.0            80.8          64.3
19714            93.2                121.7            76.6            _
1975             56.0                131.9            I41.5
SOURCE:  (1)  Engineering and Mining Journal;
(2) IBRD
TI1ut 'Zb 'r- P-o er7 c t,s Dearcmont
3eptomber "175



ANNEX 3-2
Page 1
CHILE:  COPPER SECTOR PRDJECT
MARKETING OF CHILEAN COPPER
1.        Under the laws at present in force, the Chilean Government holds
an export monopoly on copper and its by-products, which is exercised through
CODELCO and ENAMI.
A.   Sales Organization
2.        ENAMI is responsible for the marketing of all copper produced by the
medium and small mines, (Mediana y Pequena Minerias), while CODEICO is responsible
for the sale of all copper produced by the Gran Mineria. Centralization of the
marketing process was designed to prevent harmful competition, and to provide
maximum flexibility in relations with the market. Furthermore, ENAMI is respon-
sible for supplying the Brazil and Argentine markets with electrolytic copper,
whereas CODELCO is responsible for the sales of refined copper to the rest
of the world, and for the sales of all other products to all countries, includ-
ing all the production not marketed by ENAMI to the two countries. Hence,
CODELCO in addition to selling the production of the large mines, also sells
the blister from the Paipote Foundry and the Compania Mineria Disputada. Some
of the larger private mines may make direct sales, but each contract requires
the prior approval of CODELCO.
3.        The sales effort by CODELCO is controlled through the Sales Depart-
ment with the assistence of sub-agents appointed by CODELCO to handle specific
markets, to act as consultants to CODELCO, to negotiate on CODELCO's behalf
with clients and to carry out various administrative tasks. These sub-agents
are:
Sub-Agent                                 Regional Responsibility
W.O. Bergmann                                       Germany, Holland, Austria
Chile Copper                                        U.K., Scandanavia
Minerais et Metaux                                  France, Belgium
G. Schwendimann                                     Italy
Katsu Ueda                                          Japan
O.Kofmehl                                           Switzerland
Sodeco                                              Spain
Philipp Brothers                                    Argentina, Brazil
Mitra                                               India-
Cerro Corp.                                         U.S.A.
B.   Sales Procedures
4.        The sale of copper is principally made by means of annual contracts
for supply on a regular basis. During September and Octohpr of each year,
what has traditionally been called a Sales Promotion campaign is carried out.
This consists in visits to both regular and new clients to fix the terms of
sales contracts for the coming year. Agreement is reached on the type of



ANNEX 3-2
Page 2
copper the client will buy, the quantities to be delivered annually and monthly,
the procedure for determining price, the place of delivery, the form and cur-
rency of payment, as well as other details of lesser importance. This sales
campaign is normally organized well in advance, on the basis of estimated pro-
duction from the mining concerns, and in collaboration with the sub-agents on
a proposed marketing plan and strategy.
5.        Approximately 80-85% of the total production is marketed through
this process. The remainder (15-20% of total production) is traded and sold
during the year, providing permanent contact with the market and taking full
advantage of favorable opportunities which may arise. Sales are made to
final consumers and to dealers.
C.   Price Policy
6.        Chile like the majority of world copper producers except the United
States uses the daily quotations on the LME in determining the price of cop-
per sold to its clients. The quotation followed is the official seller's
cash price for bars of electrolytic copper. At present, and until Chile -'dopts
some other method of determination, this figure constitutes the "Chilean Pro-
ducer's Price", the term applied in contracts to the base selling price of
Chilean copper.
D.   Destination of Sales
7.        Chile sells its copper on a wide geographic basis.  According to
1973 figures, the most important markets are: West Germany (18.1%); Japan
(14.2%); U.K. (12.8%); U.S. (8.9%); Peoples Republic of China (8.4%); Italy
(7.0%)(see table on the following page).
8.        The sales commitments  for 1974 follow the same pattern.  Chile
will continue to diversify its markets and thus decrease its dependence on
a small number of buyers.



ANNEX 3-2
Page 3
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
CHILE'S COPPER EXPORTS
('000 metric tons of refined copper)
Country                        196 196          1970      1971      1972     1973      1974
Western Europe                 8        4  6              448 2    3 6        44        8
Fed. Rep. of Germany         12  ,3 136,2  169,1 1 m7  1388    119,1   X127O
Austria                         1,1      1,1       1,1      1,4       1,1      1,0       2.5
Belgium                       10,0      11,8      23,6     14,5       9,4      9,7       6,1
Denmark                         1,1      1,7       1,9      1,8       1,7      2,5       2,4
Spain                         13,3      21,5      14,3     13,7      12,8     13,1      13,1
Finland                         3,2      1,5       2,1      1,7       1,3      1,1       5,9
France                         33,9     51,0      49,9     46,9      32,1     22,9      38,4
Greece                          -        -         0,5      0,6      17,9     27,1      19,7
Holland                         1,1      0,9       5,8      6,9      44,6      1,8       2,3
England                       110,7    112,2      98,6    101,4      82,6     84,3      87,1
Italy                         50,2      65,3     66,7      65,7      54,4     46,1      67,4
Norway                         3,2       4,6       2,3      1,9       1,4      2,3       1,9
Sweden                        33,5      33,7      28,3     22,0      21,1     17,6      14,3
Switzerlanc.                    3s3      3,1       3,1      3,0       2,14     0,8       1,0
European Communist Block        2 2      Cj4       1 3      7.3      114,6    42,1      482
Democratic Rep. of Germany    0                             -         1,7     12,6      15,5
Czechoslovakia                  -        -         -        1,0       0,3      -         -
Bulgaria                        _        _         _        _         -        _         5,5
Hungary                         -        -         -                             ,5      6,2
Poland                         1,6       0,4       -        0,5       -        4,6      10,0
Rumania                         -        -         0,9      -         3,3      6,3       9,0
USSR                                -         -             -         8,0     14,1       -
Yugoslavia                      -        -         -        5,8       -        -         2,0
Others                          -        -         -        -         1,3      -         -
America                      190.      150.3     137 0     98 9      90J3    1114.8    225.9
Argentina                      20,6     2,9       23       2         28,2     32,3      37,9
Bolivia                        0,1       -        (a)       _         -       (a)        -
Brazil                         8,0      10,4      U,0     10,5       7,9     12,1      41,5
Canada                         -         -         -        2,4       -       1o,l      37,3
Colombia                       0,5       0,4       0,4      0,3       0,3      0,4       1,2
Cuba                            -        -         -        O, 8      -        -         -
U.S.                         161,1    110,5    101,3       51,8      67,3     58,7    105,7
Mexico                          -        --                 3,9       -        1,2       2,3
Uruguay                         O,1      0,1       -        0,1       -        -         -
Africa
Mozambique                      -        -         -        -         -        -        19,1
Asia                          531       612       63.2    129.6    1309       1     1      8
China                          _         _                 1                  55,4
North Korea                     -        -         -        o,5       2,9      -         -
South Korea                    -         -         -        -         -        -         3,8
Japan                         53,1      61,2     63,2    112,8       82,1     93,2    125,5
Singapore                      -         -         -        -        0,6       -         -
Australia                     03        -         -        -         -        1,7       4,5
Total                        635,9    656,5    668,8    684,0    630,8    656,6    858.2
(a):  under 50 metric tons
Industrial Projects Department, December 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
CHILE: COPPER SECTOR PROJECT
THE PROJECT
A.   REHABILITATION OF BARQUITO POWER PLANT
1.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.        Objectives:  The objective of the Project is to replace and install
additional power generating units at Barquito to improve security of the
service and reduce the operating costs. The Barquito Plant is located on
the coast 110 km from the Salvador Mine and Concentrator and the Potrerillos
Smelter.
2.        Power Demand:  The present peak demand for the Salvador system (60 Hz
insulated system) is 46 MW. However, this is anticipated to increase to
60 MW within three years. This increased demand will be needed when existing
processing installations have to be expanded due to lower ore grades and,
therefore, increased volume of ore to be treated.
3.        Existing Power Generating Capacity:  The generating capacity of
Barquito consists of: (a) Four steam turbines producing 7,500 KW each, and
a smaller unit producing 3,000 KW. These turbines are limited to a maximum
of 31 MW due to the boilers capacity. These are all old units installed in
1926, which have a low output, but still provide a reasonably safe base load,
(b) One Fairbanks Morse diesel prototype unit with rated capacity of 8,600 KW
but only capable of producing for short periods of emergency a maximum of
5,000 KW. This unit, installed as a part of the expansion program of 1968,
has experienced continuous failures, operating availability is extremely low,
since this model line was discontinued spare parts are impossible to obtain,
(c) 8 Fairbank Morse medium (750 rpm) speed diesel units each with a rated
capacity of 2,000 KW. These units are more suited to supply peak loads but
should not be used for base load, and (d) one recently installed 23 MW gas
turbine generator unit.
4.        In addition, Salvador has installed two small diesel units located
at Salvador with 1,500 KW each. This is only for emergency. Two small Hydro-
electric plants: Montandon and Salvador each have a capacity of about
1,700 KW. The Salvador unit is being replaced by a new unit with a rated
capacity of 3,400 KW.
5.        In summary, the present generating capacity is:
a)   Units for base load:
Steam Plant                                     31,000 KW
Hydroelectric Plant (including the
new Salvador unit)                             4,900 KW
Gas turbine                                     23,000 KW
58,900 KW



ANNEX 4
Page 2
b)   Units for Peak Load:
Barquito Diesel Plant                           19,400 KW
Salvador Diesel Plant                            3,000 KW
22,400 KW
6.        Taking into account the losses in transmission lines and consumption
in auxiliary services, the amount of base power available is reduced to about
50 MW. The Diesel capacity is unreliable and can only be used for emergencies
and programmed maintenance. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the
Diesel Plant and the Gas Turbine cannot be operated simultaneously due to
limitation in the existing substation.
7.        Proposed New Generating Capacity:  To supply the future demand and
to reduce the operating costs, a two-phased course of action is planned. The
first phase will be the immediate installation of a waste heat recovery boiler
for the gas turbine exhaust gases and of a fuel preparation plant to burn heavy
oil in the gas turbine.
8.        The second phase contemplates the expansion of the power supply with
generating units totaling 15-20 MW capacity, capable of supplying basic power
needs with high reliability, and low cost. Total generating capacity would
then rise to about 50-55 MW of modern, reliable and low cost units. The
existing steam units would be used as standby, and the fast diesels for peak
load periods. The consultants, McLelland and Partner (UK) have been engaged
to conduct a full study on the proposed investment program, and have analyzed
the alternatives on the basis of technical and economic evaluation. Recently
a new alternative to develop hydroelectric generating capacity has been found
and is being studied. The hydroelectric potential requires a study which will
take a year to be completed. It should then be compared with other possible
alternatives to further increase the generating capacity.
2.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
9.        A tentative implementation schedule is presented below:
Timing
Activity                                        Phase I         Pha e II
(a)  Preliminary study by Consultants          Oct. 1974       Oct. 1974
(b)  Consultant's Report completed             Jan. 1975       Jan. 1975
(c)  Engineering and Bid Specifications        Nov. 1975       Jan. 1976
(d)  Equipment Bidding                         Jan. 1976       Mar. 1975
(e)  Procurement                               Jul. 1976       Sep. 1976
(f)  Equipment Delivery                        Jul. 1977       Mar. 1978
(g)  Erection and Start-up                     Late 1977       Early 1979



ANNEX 4
Page 3
3.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT
10.       Project preparation and evaluation has been completed by the consul-
tants, McLellan and Partners, who will also undertake the engineering design,
bid specifications, and procurement. Civil construction and equipment erection
will be undertaken by local contractors, supervised by the engineering depart-
ment of Salvador, with the continued assistance of McLellan. This is consi-
dered a satisfactory arrangement.
4.  PROJECT CAPITAL COSTS
11.       Capital cost estimates are as follows:
Item                                        Estimated Cost (US$ million equivalent)
Phase I                                         Local           Foreign         Total
Equipment
-  One (1) waste heat boiler                                1.20           1.20
-  One (1) fuel preparation plant                           1.00           1.00
Freight and Insurance                                            0.40           0.40
Civil works/erection                             0.30            0.05           0.35
Start up costs                                   0.10            0.05           0.15
Sub-total                                  0.40             2.70           3.10
Phase II
Generator unit (steam)                                           8.00           8.00
Freight and Insurance                                            0.80           0.80
Civil works/erection and start up costs          2.00            1.00           3.00
Sub-total                                  2.00             9.80          11.80
Physical contingencies                           0.36            1.87           2.23
Price escalation /1                              0.33            1.97           2.30
Total Fixed Costs                          3.09            16.34          19.43
Working Capital                                  1.00                           1.00
Interest during construction                      _              1.00           1.00
Total Financing Required                   4.09           17.34          21.43
12.       The project costs are based on quotation for similar equipment
received during 1975.  The costs are considered to be representative, with
adequate provision for contingencies and price escalations. 1/
1/   Assuming price escalation as follows:
1976    1977    1978
Equipment                  12%      10%      8%
Civil Works                16%      14%      12%



ANNEX 4
Page 4
5.   PROCUREMENT
13.       The equipment items will be procured by international competitive
bidding (ICB), fo'Llowing Bank guidelines.
6.  FINANCING PLAN
14.       The project will be financed as follows:
Local Currency  Foreign Currency   Total
US$ million
Codelco Internal Cash
Generation                   4.09               1.00          5.09
IBRD                            -                16.34         16.34
4 _ 9             17.34        21.43
The Bank funds wi:Ll be used to procure the foreign equipment including spares,
and freight.  All local currency costs, interest during construction, w.ll be
financed out of CODELCO's cash flow.
7.   FINANCLkL ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT
15.       The major benefits from the project will be:
(a) Reduction of fuel consumption
(b)  Lower maintenance costs
(c) Secure supply
16.       Operating Cost:  The existing plant has the following fuel costs:
Steam Plant - 430 gm of Bunker C/Kwh $133/ton) = 5.7 i/Kwh
Diesel Units - 250 gms of Diesel/Kwh $206/ton) = 5.2 4/Kwh
Gas Turbine - 315 gms of Diesel/Kwh $206/ton) = 6.7 4/Kwh
The future plant with recover boiler, fuel treatment system and
modern generating unit should have the following fuel costs:
Gas turbine - 260 gns heavy oil/Kwh x $150/ton = 3.9 H/Kwh
New gen. unit - 190 gns heavy oil/Kwh x $133/ton = 3.9 4/Kwh
17.       Assuming a 40 MW base load with 85% load factor, total annual power
consumption is presently 300 million Kwh. Existing annual fuel costs are:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Kwh/Year        US$ million
Gas turbine                       60                 4.0
Staem units                      230                13.1
Diesel units                      10                 0.5
TOTAL                                     17.6
The new units are expected to incur annual fuel costs of US$12.0
providing an annual saving in fuel costs US$5.6 million (in 1975 prices).
18.       Maintenance Costs:  Maintenance costs for the existing steam and
diesel units are very high. The steam units are now almost 50 years old and
it is difficult to obtain spare parts, some require fabricating at considerable
cost. A substantial saving is expected with the new plant.
19.       Secure Supply:  Given the unreliability of some of the units of the
existing plant, a loss of copper production is a real possibility. The El
Salvador complex produces about 85,000 tons of refined copper per year or
240 tons per day. Hence a loss of production for one day due to electrical
failure, in addition to shutdown and startup costs which are considerable
would result in a loss of revenue of US$0.3 million. Hence, plant breakdown
or loss of output for any period of time could be very costly. This is a
very real possiblity.
20.       Net Cash Flow Projection:
1975 Prices US$ Million
1976     1977      1978     1979      1980      1981
Capital Costs                    0.6      3.0      11.5       2.0
Fuel Savings                      -        -        2.8       2.8      5.6       5.6
Maintenance Savings               -        -        0.5       0.5      1.0       1.0
Net Cash Benefits         (0.6)    (3.0)    (8.2)       1.3       6.6       6.6
21.       The project is highly profitable and has a payback period of little
over 3 years after start-up on savings in fuel cost and maintenance cost alone.
The project displays a discounted cash flow rate of return in excess of 35%
(in real terms) without using any savings from possible plant shutdowns under
the existing unreliable system.
22.       The project, therefore, has little financial risk, and will serve to
importantly secure the output of the Salvador mining and smelting complex
(i.e. 85,000 tons of refined copper per year).



ANNEX 4
Page 6
B.   REHABILITATION AND MODERNIZATION OF ENAMI SMELTING AND REFINING OPERATIONS
1.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION
23.       Objective:  Bank funds will be used to finance three urgently needed
equipment components which form part of ENAMI's broader rehabilitation program
for its principal smelting and refining operations at Ventanas and Paipote.
The objective of the above program is primarily to assure the continuation of
production from ENAMI's smelting operations as well as to bring about a moderate
increase in installed production capacity; significant production losses have
been caused by plant breakdowns which have been occurring with increasing
frequency. Since the shortage of installed smelting capacity is a major cons-
traint to increasirng Chile's refined copper production, ENAMI's smelting faci-
lities play an important role in processing copper concentrate from Gran Mineria
operations in addition to processing the concentrate purchased from the small-
and medium-scale producers.
24.       Smelting and Refining Operations:
(a) Paipote Smelter: This smelter is located in the
Atacama Province, about 10 kms from the town of
Copiapo. The plant was originally built to smelt
gold-containing mineral ore. The plant began opera-
tions in 1952 and over the years the original design
has been modified. At present the smelter produces
48,000 MT of blister copper per year. The copper
concentrate which is treated in the Paipote smelter
is from the Gran Mineria (principally Chuquicamata)
and from the small- and medium-scale producers. The
actual plant comprises:
(i) Crushing and mineral preparation section;
(ii) Smelting facilities, consisting of reverberatory
furnace with a present capacity of 440 tons/day,
three convertors, and blister casting facilities;
(iii) Thermoelectric plant; and
(iv) Sulphuric acid plant (120 tons per day capacity).
(b) Ventanas Smelter and Refinery: This plant is located
50 kms north of Valparaiso on the coast, has a smelter
built in 1964 and a refinery built in 1966. The Ventanas
plant consists of a crushing operation, storage yards for
concentrate, a reverberatory furnace with a capacity of
650 tons of fused charge per day and two wasteheat boilers;
a third is being added to increase the capacity at the



ANNEX 4
Page 7
reverberatory furnace. The smelter is modern and conven-
tional but was originally designed for only 3,000 tons/
month of blister copper. However, annual production is
is approximately 72,000 MT/year, which means the smelter
is run on double design capacity. Almost 50% of the
copper concentrate that is treated at Ventanas is from
the Gran Mineria; the remainder is from the small- and
medium-mining operations.
The Ventanas plant has a refining capacity of
about 120,000 MT/year; a fourth component is being added
to the electrolytic refinery which is expected to increase
installed capacity to 145,000 MT/year. In addition to
refining blister copper produced at Ventanas, almost 50%
of the blister copper at El Teniente is subsequently
treated at the Ventanas plant. The other sections of the
Ventanas plant comprise a small power plant, a small
copper sulphate production plant, and a nobel metals
plant (recovery of selenium, gold, silver, palladium and
platinum from the anode slimes).
The Ventanas modernization and expansion program
aims at increasing installed capacity by about 40,000 ton/
year of electrolytic copper. The program contemplates an
increase in smelting capacity to approximately 80,000 MT/
year. The expansion is expected to be completed by 1978.
25.       Specific Equipment Components:
The three equipment components to be financed are the following:
(i)  Modification to Burners:  Both the Ventanas and the
Paipote smelters use a petroleum-based fuel to heat
the furnaces, which is the major cost component of the
entire smelting operation. It is now proposed to
design a system which would permit greater flexibility
so as to use either petroleum or Chilean coal. The
additional equipment required would consist of crushing
equipment, sieves, ventilation equipment, pumps, etc.
(ii) New equipment to prepare cathode starting sheets: The
electrolytic refinery presently uses two semi-automatic
machines to prepare cathode starting sheets for the re-
fining operation. These machines, in operation since 1966,
have a limited capacity which will impose a constraint on
refining capacity when the refinery expansion is completed,
and are obsolete in that spare parts are difficult to obtain.
Two alternative solutions are being studied to solve the
limitations of present equipment: a new, fully automatic



ANNEX 4
Page 8
machine with a capacity of 700 cathodes per hour, or two
modern, semi-automatic machines, each with a capacity of
350 cathodes per hour.
(iii) Anode casting equipment for the Paipote Smelter: Two
anode casting wheels currently are used at Paipote, each
with a capacity of 10 tons/hour. The equipment is approxi-
mately 25 years old and it is extremely diffiuclt to find
spare parts. Furthermore, the present equipment is a
limiting factor in increasing smelter capacity at the
Paipote plant. The new casting equipment would have a
capacity of 40-50 tons/hour, and would have automatic
weighing systems.
2.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
26.       A tentative implementation schedule is as follows:
Procurement       Completion
of Equipment      and Start Up
(i)  Burners (Paipote, Ventanas)       Jan. - March 1976    Dec. 1977
(ii)  Starting Sheet Cathodes           Feb. - April 1976    June 1977
(iii)  Blister Co pper Casting           Jan. - March 1977    June 1978
(Paipote)
This is a reasonable and attainable schedule.
3.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT
27.       The implementation of this modernization and rehabilitation program
will be the responsibility of ENAMI staff. The engineering design and civil
construction will be undertaken by ENAMI's engineering group with the assistence
of local consultants. ENAMI's engineering staff is considered to have sufficient
technical competence and experience, particularly at Ventanas.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
4. Capital Costs
28.       The capital costs of the Ventanas and Paipote programs are estimates
as follows:
Item 1                          Local Currency    Foreign Currency        Total
(US$ 000)
Modification of Burner
for Coal Use
(Ventanas and Paipote)
Equipment                                          1,078             1,078
Freight and Insurance                                 65                65
Erection and Startup            270                                    270
Subtotal                   270               1,143             1,413
Physical Contingency (10%)       27                  114               141
Price Escalation (10%/year)      46                  195               241
Total                      343                1,452            1,795
Item 2
Cathode Starting Sheet
Preparation Machine (Ventanas)
Equipment                                            595               595
Freight and Insurance                                 68                68
Erection and Startup             40                   14                54
Subtotal                    40                  677               717
Physical Contingency (10%)        4                   68                72
Price Escalation (10%/year)       5                   75                80
Total                       49                  820              869
Item 3
Anode Casting Equipment
for Paipote
Equipment                                            533               533
Freight and Insurance                                 64                64
Erection and Startup            325                                    325
Subtotal                   325                  597              922
Physical Contingency (10%)       33                   60                93
Price Escalation (10%/year)      79                  128               207
Total                      437                  785            1,222
Item 4 Interest during constructimn  -                     20               20
Grand Total Items 1,2,3 & h    830                 3.080             3,910



ANNEX 4
Page 10
29.       The capital costs of the specific equipment items are based on actual
recent quotations. The costs are considered to be representative, with adequate
provision for contingencies and price escalation.
5.   PROCUREMENT
30.       The Bank funds will be used exclusively to finance the foreign exchange
costs of the equipment, including freight and spares.  International competitive
bidding will be followed for these equipment items.
6.   FINANCING PLAN
31.       The Company's investment in the Paipote and Ventanas smelters and
refinery totaled US$28.5 million from 1970 to 1975. Total estimated costs for
further investments during the period 1976 and 1977 are scheduled to be
US$26.4 million. Within this investment program, the three equipment components
are financed as follows:
Local Currency       Foreign Currency           Total
---------------------   (US$   000)
Enami Funds or
Government Contribution         830                     20                   850
IBRD                                                 3 060                3,060
Total                830                  3.080                 3,910
7.   PROJECT BENEFITS
32.       Economic evaluation of the rehabilitation program is made difficult by
lack of a clearly defined benefit or revenue streams. The present equipment,
particularly in the smelting operations at Paipote, and to a lesser extent at
Ventanas, is old and obsolete. Plant breakdowns have been frequent and have
led to production losses; where it may be necessary to do maintenance and repair
work, spare parts have been difficult to find. A goal of the rehabilitation
program is to assure future production at ENAMI's smelting and refining opera-
tions.
The benefits directly attributable to the specific equipment items
are as follows:
(a) New Burner System
The major benefits which will accrue from the
installation of the new burners at both Paipote
and Ventanas are in foreign exchange savings. In
the light of dwindling domestic oil reserves, the
coal replacement project adds great operational



ANNEX 4
Page 11
flexibility to the furnace without losing the
ability to burn petroleum. Furthermore, the
replacement of imported petroleum with domestic
coal - a major cost component - will have a benefi-
cial effect on the depressed domestic coal market.
Taking February 1975 prices for diesel
oil and coal, it can be shown that fuel savings at
Paipote amount to $24 per MT of blister whereas
they amount to $4.45 for Ventanas. Taking the
average daily blister production figures for the
first two quarters of 1975 (180 MT for Ventanas,
150 MT for Paipote), the total amount of foreign
currency savings in a year would accrue to US$1.3
million or about 70% of the total project cost.
(b) Starter Sheet Manufacturing Equipment
Cathode starting sheet equipment has normally a
useful life of 10 years. The Ventanas equipment is already
11 years old and performs increasingly unreliably. New
high density current equipment is typically used for 20
hours per day or at 80% availability. Such equipment
would produce 150,000 MT of copper per year. The
present starter sheet equipment could theoretically be
pushed to a 75% daily availability which means that
7,500 MT of copper per year would not be treated
without installation of additional equipment. Since the
refining charge amounts to US$108 per MT of copper which
is equivalent to a loss of US$810,000 per year, the entire
project cost would be recouped in one years time.
However, it should be understood that
an availability of 75%, due to accelerating
deterioration, will most likely not be maintained
emphasizing the urgency of this investment.
(c) Blister Copper Casting Equipment
Spare parts cannot be obtained for the existing
equipment since it is more than 25 years old.
Moreover, the present capacity of blister copper
castings is a constraint to any future expansion
of the Paipote smelting operation. Both these
problems will be alleviated with the new equip-
ment.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
C.  EL TENIENTE: UNDERGROUND CRUSHING STATION FOR PRIMARY ORE
FUTURE MINE (MINA FUTURA)
1.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION
33.       Background:  El Teniente constitues a classical porphyry copper
deposit consisting of an oxidized or leached zone on the top of an inter-
mediary secondary enriched zone underlain by a primary zone. As described
in Annex 2-3, page 14, the mining method used is block caving, which is also
by far the most economical method in underground mining. The block caving
technique makes use of the fact that large ore blocks (in El Teniente's case
dimensions are 60m x 60m x 100m, containing 1.5 to 2 million tons) can be
collapsed as one unit provided the in situ rock is already suffiently frac-
tured by geological events. Fracturing characteristics in the secondary ore
zone are excellent from where, until recently, all production came.
34.       Mining operations from 14 levels incoporating two transportation
levels and four new shafts which currently produce about 55,000 tons per day
have by the large ignored the lower grade (1.0% Cu) primary ore 1/. Although
there is still a 400 million ton reserve of secondary ore available, produc-
tion of primary ore has now become a necessity as mine development and produc-
tion levels have entered the primary ore zone. The first block of primary ore
lower grade ore was caved in 1974 and it became immediately evident that
fracturing characteristics of the lower grade ore are far inferior. The
maximum size of fractured rock in the secondary ore zone is 13.5 inches whereas
fractured lower grade ore breaks typically in blocks of 30 to 40 inches. The
existing ore shoots are not equipped to handle ore that size necessitating
secondary blasting, which is difficult and costly. This is drastically
demonstrated by a 90% productivity decrease per man shift (250 tons in upper
secondary ore zone versus 20 to 30 tons in the lower primary ore zone).
35.       If the current system is continued to be in use, it can be predicted
that, at least from 1978 on, projected tonnage levels will not be reached:
1975      1976         1977        1978
Codelco Forecast in MT/day  54,800    56,000 2/   57,000 2/   57,000
In order to accommodate the above forecast figures (57,000 tons) El Teniente
will have to produce about five million short tons or 19.6% from the primary
ore zone. This translates into a daily production of 12,500 tons, which means
that the management would have to add 500 men to the work force on the basis
of the current 23 ton per man shift performance. This would compare to the
present 280 miners who now produce 55,000 tons per day in the secondary zone.
However, the introduction of substantially more labor is physically impossible
1/   Secondary ore grade: 1.5% Cu.
2/   Increase in ore throughput does not automatically mean increase in refined
copper produced. As the incremental volume of lower grade primary ore
increases, it will need more ore to produce the same amount of copper.



ANNEX 4
Page 13
as ventilation and transportation facilities would not permit a further crowding
of the mine which leaves as the only alternative the underground crushing system.
36.       Objective:  El Teniente is the biggest underground mine and the only
major one featuring no underground primary crusher. The current mining system
is extremely efficient and should be maintained in the future if possible.
Regardless of what mining system is finally employed (for instance sublevel
caving), the need to reduce the size of this much less friable, hence blockier
ore will remain since the existing infracture system is not equipped to handle
ore bigger than 13.5 inches in size. The installation of an underground
primary crusher becomes, therefore, an absolute necessity if productivity is
to be maintained and forecast production levels are to be achieved. Handling
the primary ore blocks necessitates ore shoots considerably larger in diameter
to prevent blockage of the ore passes. The crusher, fed by a new primary ore
shoot system, will reduce the ore size to accommodate the existing handling
system.
37.       Project Components and Design:  The primary El Teniente ore will be
fed through two separate dumping stations on to the vibrating classifier feeder
which in turn supply the gyratory crusher (54" x 75") which reduces the block
size to 7". Design capacity of the crushing station is 1,630 short tons per
hour. Three ore passes (two for the vibrating classifier undersize and one for
the main crusher output) lead into the loading hopper chambers which will be
constructed in a run-around above El Teniente's main haulage level. From here
the ore will be dropped to the usual 100 ton mine cars through a chute system
similar to the ones used for secondary ore.
2.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
38.       Due to the obvious urgency to solve the increasing ore handling
problems at El Teniente, implementation of the "Future Mine" (Mina
Futura) project has already started in a minor way (access drifts, etc.).
However, major excavations for the crusher system emplacement will commence
towards the end of the year. The project is scheduled to be operational by
mid-1978.
3.   PKOJECT MANAGEMENT
39.       The project's construction and operational phase will be managed
by El Teniente's operational and engineering staff. From a technical stand-
point, this is basically a simple project and El Teniente's engineering staff
appears to be quite capable of executing this project. It is generally said
that El Teniente's engineering group is the most experienced and efficient
within Codelco.
4.   CAPITAL COST
40.       The capital cost of the project is estiamted as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 14
Local     Foreign
Item                                    Currency   Currency   Total
----    - US$ '000-
A.  Rail Transportation System
(Haulage Level 1 Retram)
- Engineering, Civil Works                      655.7        35.8     691.5
- Equipment and Supplies (Development only)        -          -          -
Subtotal                            6.5.                  691 .75
B.  Dumping Station (Level 1 Retrai)
- Engineering, Civil Works,' Erection            361.4       10.2     371.6
- Equipment and Supplies                          22.4       36.8      59.2
Subtotal                                   47.0           43.8
C.   Vertical Ore Shoots (to Crusher)
- Engineering, Civil Works, Erection          2,015.7        44.6   2,060.3
- Equipment and Supplies                         59.0         -        59.0
Subtotal                          2,074.7      1M7T   2,119.3
D.  Rail Transportation System (Level 5)
- Engineering, Civil Works, Erection          3,632.4       342.9   3,975.3
- Equipment and Supplies                        534.8       878.6   1 ,413.4
Subtotal                          4,167.2    1,         5,388.7
E.   Dux,ping Station (Level 5)
- Engineering, Civil Works, Erection            509.6         8.1     517.7
- Equipment and Supplies                         38.1        62.6     100.7
Subtotal                             0 4.7      70.7      618. 4
F.  Underground Primary Crushing Station
- Engineering, Civil Works, Erection          4,011.4       295.4   4,306.8
- Equipment and Supplies                      1 306.8    21145.0   3451.8
Subtotal                          5318.2    2,4404   7756
G.   Ore Shoot System (to Level 6)
- Engineering, Civil Works, Erection          2,294.5        20.2   2,314.7
- Equipment and Supplies                          49.0       82.0     131.0
Subtotal                          2,343.5       102.2   2,1445.7
H.   Feeding System (to Level 8)
- Engineering, Civil Works, Erection          7,750.0       239.3   7,989.3
- Equipment and Supplies                           -          -          -
Subtotal                          7,750.0       239.3   7,989.3
I.   Various
- Construction and Electrical Equipment          732.8      730.4   1,463.2
- Ventilation                                 1.265.9       315.1   1 ,581 .0
- Consulting Services                           13300       413.0      743.0
Subtotal                          2,327    1,458.5   3,787.2
TOTAL ESTIMATES                  25,569.5    5,660.0  31,229.5
Physical Contingency 10%                    2,557.0       566.0   3,122.9
Price Escalation 10% per year               5,039.7    1,317.0  6.346.8
±kOJ CT TOTAL                   33,166.2    7,533.0 o40,697.7
Working Capital                             1,000.0         -     1,000.0
Interest During Construction                     -      1,000.0   1,000.0
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIREMNTS    34,166.2    8,533.0  42,699.2



ANNEX 4
Page 15
41.       The capital costs are July 1975 costs and are based on fairly
detailed engineering and design plans. Most of the local cost are for
engineering, civil works and erection in which the engineering staff has
considerable experience. Therefore it is felt that contingencies of 10%
are ample. Price escalation is estimated to be 10% per year.
5.   FINANCING PLAN
42.       The project will be financed as follows:
Local     Foreign
Currency   Currency   Total
---- US$ million -----
Internal Cash Generation             34.167      1.000      35.167
IBRD                                             7.533       7.533
34.167     8.533      42.700
43.       The Bank fund will be used to procure the foreign equipment including
spares and freight amounting to 18% of the total project cost. All local
currency costs, including all basic engineering and interest during construction
are financed out of Codelco's cash flow.
6.   PROCUREMENT
44.       International competitve bidding will be used for the large equipment
items such as dump, cars, classifier feeders, crusher and conveying systems
which will be about 90% of the loan amount. Some smaller equipment and supply
items will be procured by international shopping.
7.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF THE PROJECT AND BENEFITS
45.       Production Forecast:  Although CODELCO forecasts a ten percent produc-
tion increase from 1977 over and above the 1975 figures, it is probably more
prudent to assume that, with the introduction of the project, the projected
level of production in 1975 can be maintained:



ANNEX 4
Page 16
1975   1976   1977    1978   1979   1980
Production (000 MT of Refined
Copper)                            250    250    250       250    250    250
Production without the
Project (000 MT)                    250    250    250/1   225    200    175
Incremental Loss of Production
(000 MT)                                                   10%    20%    30%/2
/1   The forecast of no loss of production in 1976/77 without the project would
in reality probably not, be achieved. As accessibility to the secondary
ore zone becomes more difficult due to the fact that no primary ore can
be mined, a greater effort of secondary ore pre-production development
has to be made, thereby diverting mining machines and manpower which in
turn would result in a drop of production.
/2   Constant after 1980.
Production Cost per
Metric Ton
Usi
a)   Operation
Material and Supply                                       0.236
Energy                                                    0.740
Wages                                                     1.024
Sub-total                                 2,000
b)   Maintenance
Rehabilitation of Equipment                              14,325
Salaries and Wages                                        0,236
Sub-total                                14,551
Total Cost to Operate and Maintain
the Project                                           16,515   US$0.17/MT
c)   Depreciation Costs
Civil works and construction amounting to US$23 million are
depreciated over a 20-year period, whereas equipment and supplies
of US$8 million are depreciated over 5 year, both on the basis
of 75,000 MT of copper per year production.
US$/MT
i)   Civil Works and Construction                    17.3
ii)   Equipment and Supplies                          21.3
38.6



ANNEX 4
Page 17
Except for depreciation, incremental costs are negligible, but even with
depreciation, additional costs amount to under two US cents per lb of
contained copper.
47.       With the implementation of the project, production is estimated to
be constant at 250,000 MT of refined copper per year from 1975 onward.
Current production costs are $0.42 per lb and have been estimated to increase
annually by 10% from 1976 onward. Without the project (as stated in paragraph
49), production is expected to gradually drop to 175,000 MT per year and then
remain constant after 1980 1/.
48.       Cost Benefit Stream (Copper prices in constant 1975 US dollars)
Case 1
With the Project                175       1976      1977     1978      1979      1980
-- - --------------- US$ million - -         -------- -
Sales                     314.2    336.3    369.3    496.1    468.7    380.4
Investment Cost              0.5     10.0      25.2       7.0       -        -
Production Costs /2       234.3    259.1    292.2    330.8 /3 363.8    402.4
Surplus(Deficit)            79.4     67.2      51.9    158.3    104.9    (22.0)
Case 2
Without the Project
Sales                     314.2    336.3    369.3    446.5    374.9    266.3
Investment Cost              -        -         -         -        -          -
Production Cost            234.3    259.1    292.2    314.2 /4 347.3    380.4
Surplus/Deficit            79.9      77.2      77.1    132.3      27.6   (134.1)
Incremental Cash
SurplusQDeficit)                 (0.5)   (10.0)   (25.2)    26.0        77.3    112.1 /5
/1   The assumption is that eventually the mine will develop a different
mining method which will be less efficient than block caving, but never-
the less will stabilize production.
/2   Allowing Annual escalation of 10%
/3   Includes incremental production cost from 1978 onwards.
/4   Excluding incremental cost but otherwise kept on level of case
(1) as even with assumed lost of production substantial additional
labor is necessary to keep mine running.
/5   Savings in losses (due to depressed price forecast for 1980)



ANNEX 4
Page 18
49.       The project is clearly highly profitable and will have repaid the
capital cost of the project in the first quarter of 1979. Thereafter, as
production without the project would result both in increased costs and a
drop of production of about 75,000 metric tons 1/ per year, the annual incre-
mental benefit would be about US$100 million per year under the forecast prices.
D.        CHUQUICAMATA:  SELENIUM RECOVERY PLANT
1.   PROJECT DESCRIPTICN
50.       Objective:  Both the Chuquicamata and El Salvador ores contain small
quantities of Selenium which during the course of processing the ores to re-
fined copper, ends up in the anode slimes in the copper refinery. The objec-
tive of the project is to recover this selenium for sale as a commercial
grade selenium (99.5%), whereas it is now sold in the slag.
51.       Concept:  The slimes from the two aforementioned refineries are
processed at the Nobles Metal plant at Chuquicamata to recover gold and silver.
An analysis of this plant has shown that 93% of the selenium entering the
plant as slimes can be found in the subproducts of the Dore Furnace; i.e. in
the oxidized slag and dust and wash solution from the gas cleaning system
and from the electrostatic precipitator. Of this up to 98% can be recovered.
(i.e. an overall recovery of 91%).
52.       Process Design:  The project will consist of a plant to recover the
selenium from the subproducts of the Dore Furnace. The subproducts are
collected and leached in tanks, and a pregnant pulp formed. The pulp is then
neutralized with sulfuric acid and sodium chloride to a ph of 6-7 and filtered,
providing a solution free from impurities which is then acidified with purified
sulphuric acid, thus precipitating selenium. Precipitation is carried out hot,
through agitation with the additon of sulfur dioxide in the presence of iron
sulfate. The selenium is collected in filter presses, washed and dried. The
powdered selenium thus obtained is of commercial quality (99.5%).
53.       Plant Size:  The plant will be constructed in two steps.  First a
9 ton pilot plant will be constructed. Second this will be expanded to a
commercial plant with 35 ton capacity. The expanded plant will be designed
to treat 700 tpy of anode slimes; 530 tpy from Chuquicamata; 160 tpy from El
Salvador, with an average content of 6-7% of selenium. For each ton of copper
refined from the Chuquicamata and El Salvador ores 0.15-0.20 lbs. of selenium
which is collected in the anode slimes at the respective refineries (i.e.
Selenium is available in the ores at a ratio of 1 part to 12,000-15,000 parts
of contained copper).
54.       Test Work:  Extensive test work on recovering the selenium from the
anode slimes was carried out on a laboratory scale by CIMM, by two experts
with extensive selenium recovery experience in Canada. Two major alternative
processes were considered; a) recovery by leaching the anode slimes before they
are fed to the Dore Furnace in the Noble Metals Plant - the method used at



ANNEX 4
Page 19
Furnace - the method selected. The selection was made on the basis of
an economic and technical evaluation. Both processes required a similar
capital investment, but the latter had lower operating costs. Both processes
have a recovery ratio of 90%. The test results indicate the technical via-
bility of the project. Nevertheless, to assure the correct process design
parameters are obtained it was concluded that a pilot plant be first con-
structed.
2.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
55.       A tentative implementation schedule is presented below.
1.  Engineering and Installation of Pilot Plant (20 months)    February 75 -
December 76
2.   Pilot Plant Trials (3 months)                                 January 77 -
March 77
3.   Engineering and Expansion to full Commercial Plant
(12 months)                                  April 77 -
April 78
4.   Run in of Expansion (2 months)                                May 78 - June 78
5.   Plant completion                                              July 78
56.       This schedule is realistic, but could be subject to slippage if there
is any delay in taking the decision to proceed, and the possible unavailability
of the two experts.
3.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT
57.       The project construction and operational phases will be managed
by the Chuquicamata operational and engineering staff. Assistance in design
and the earlier test work. This should be a suitable arrangement.
4.  CAPITAL COST
58.       The estimated capital cost of the project is given in the following
page:



ANNEX 4
Page 20
TOTAL COST
Item                                Local             Foreign              Total
($ 000)
Equipment (c.i.f.)                    131                123                394
Spares                                 -                  20                 20
Erection                              134                 -                 134
Instrumentation                        -                 118                118
Buildings                             171                 -                 171
Civil Works                            96                 -                  96
Piping                                 37                 85                122
Electricity                            34                 -                  34
Other Services                        102                                   102
Engineering and Supervision           274                 _                 274
Subtotal                        979                486              1,465
Physical Contingencies (15%)          150                 70                220
Price Escalation                      300                120                420
TOTAL FIXED COSTS             1,1429               676              2,105
Other Working Capital                 200                 -                 200
Interest During Construction           -                  10                 10
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED      1,629                686              2,315



ANNEX 4
Page 21
59.       Project costs based upon preliminary design, and equipment lists
were made in June 1974. A contingency allowance of 15% is considered adequate,
plus allowances for escalation as follows:
Price Escalation Factors
1974       1975       1977       1978
Equipment                         14%        12%        10%         8%
Civil Works                       18%        16%        14%        12%
With these allowances, the capital cost estimates are considered to be
representative.
5.   PROCUREMENT
60.       The equipment items can all be considered off-the-shelf-items: leach
tanks, piping, pumps, filters, scrubbers, fans, etc., with values less than
$50,000. Hence, full international competitive bidding is not warranted, and
international shopping (from 2 or more suppliers) would be more appropriate.
The Bank funds will be used to finance equipment and supplies, cif Chilean port.
6.   FINANCING PLAN
61.       The project will be financed as follows:
Financing
Local Currency   Foreign Currency   Total
-------------(US$1000)----------
Internal Cash Generations          1629                 10            1639
IBRD                                ---                676             676
1629                686            2315
62.       Expenditures are estimated to be as follows:
Local       Foreign       Total
(US$ 000)
1975                  150           150          300
1976                  850           200         1050
1977                  629           336          965
1629          686         2315
63.       The Bank funds will be used to cover 99% of foreign exchange costs
or 29% of total project cost. All local currency costs will be covered by
cash generation.



ANNEX 4
Page 22
7.   PRODUCTION COSTS
64.       Raw Material and other inputs to produce 35 tons of Selenium per year
are as follows:
Unit    Cost/ton
Sulphuric Acid  385 ton                      n  ton/ton of Selenium    To   elen
Sodium Chloride 220 ton                      6.3ton/ton of Selenitun   $5(/ton    $300
SO  gas           36 ton                     1 ton/ton of Selenium                   $ 10
iabor-2 shifts of 5 workerd                                           $500/month n$ 10
1 chemical analyst                                              $1000/month  $310
1 supervisor/shift                                              $1000/montil $340
Maintenance 7% of Fixed Capital $84,ooo                                 1$2400
Services:  65 psi steam         60,000 ks   1700kg,ton of Selenium                    $50
Distilled water    1,200 m         3m m /ton of Selenium                  $10
Electricity          9,000 kWh   257/ton of Selenium    $0.12/kwh    $32
TOTAL       $292
The above cost estimates are very preliminary but indicate that the operating
costs will lie in the order of $5.3 per kilogram (in late 1974 prices).
65.       Financing charges will add a cost of $65,000/year or $1857/ton or
$1.86/kg. DeprecLation charges at 8% an additional $96,000 or $2742/ton or
$2.74/kg. Overhead should not amount to more than $8000/year or $142/ton or
$0.14/kg (in late 1974 prices).
66.       Hence total production costs are estimated at $10 per kg. which
compares with the costs at the Ventanas smelter of $10-$12 per kg.
8.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF THE. PROJECT
67.       Price:  The future Selenium price is expected to remain at
the recent high levels of $30-40/kg. The lower figure $30/kg is used
in the following projections (for late 1974 prices, escalated at 5%
per year for current prices): Prices used in the projections are $31.5,
33.0, 34.8, 36.5, 38.3, 40.2, 42.2, 44.3, 46.5, for years 1975 to 1983
respectively.
68.       Production Projections:  The output from the project is expected to
follow the tollowing pattern:
1977      19730      1979 onwards
Output                  S tons   28 tons    35 tons



AlNEX 4
Page 23
69.       Cash Flow Projections:  on the basis of the above figures the follow-
ing projections have been derived (in current prices):
Source of Funds                  1975       1976       1977       1978       1979      198cl
(US$000)
Revenue                           ---         -         174       1022       1340       14U7
CODELCO financing                 285       b56         714        ---
Debt Financing                     /u        400        230
TOTAL SOURCES          305       1056       1118       1022       1340       1407
Application of funds
Capital Expenditures              300       1050        965        ---        ---
Operating Costs (Cash) /z        ---         ---         80        252        272        294
Overhead Costs                      )          6          6          7          7          a
Interest Charges                 ----         10         55         bO /1      55         50
Debit Repayment                  ---        ---         ---         54         54         54
TOTAL APPLICATIONS   305         1066       1106        373        388        406
NET CASH SURPLUS       ---        ---         12        649        952       1001
/1   Interest declines from $60,000 in 1978 to 2700 in 1990 after which debc
is completely repaid.
/2   Cash costs from para 7 above, escalated at 8% per year, with allowances
for poor productivity and normal start-up problems during the earlier
years of operation.
70.       The project is highly profitable, having a payback period of less
than 2 years after start-up. (i.e. the capital investment would be fully re-
covered by the end of 1978). The project displays a discounted cash flow rate
of 35% (in real terms). A sensititivy analysis produced the following results:
DCF Rate of Return
1.  Base case                                      35%
2.  Double operating costs                         22%
3.  Half sales price                                8%
Thus the project has little financial risk, even under very adverse conditions.
71.       The project will provide net foreign exchange earnings of close to
$1 million per year.



ANNEX 4
Page 24
F.   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR CODELCO
1.   OBJECTIVES
72.       As discussed in Annex 2-3, CODELCO as a company needs considerable
strengthening, to make up for the loss of large numbers of engineers following
nationalization, to replace the services originally provided by the former
owners from their parent companies in the USA and, importantly, to improve
management efficiency and prepare a fully integrated development plan for the
CODELCO Group of Companies.
2.   DESCRIPTION OF THE PROGRAM
73.       To meet these objectives a substantial technical assistance program
has been proposed as follows:
(a) Planning Systems, Project Preparation and Evaluation
- team of 10 experts for two years (20 man-years)
(b) Specific Studies
(i) Development of Smelting and Refining Strategy for Chile
- Four people for a 6-month study (2 man-years)
(ii) El Teniente Long Term Mining Plan
- A large team including 5 man-years of foreign expertise
(iii) Chuquicamata Long-Term Mining Plan
- A team including 3 man-years of foreign expertise
(c) Specific Experts
- trouble shooting and problem solving particularly
in Metallurgical field - (4 man-years)
(d)  Organization and Structuring of CODELCO Group
- reinforcement of an ongoing program by adding
5 man-years of foreign expertise
(e) Internal Procedures
(i) cost accounting systems
(ii) inventory control systems
(iii) data collection systems



ANNEX 4
Page 25
(iv) production control systems
- this is coupled with a computing development program,
and will require 18 man-years of foreign expertise
74.       Planning Systems, Project Preparation and Evaluation:  Prior to
nationalization, most project identification, preparation and evaluation was
performed by the personnel of the parent USA companies, owners of the local
Chilean companies. Hence, upon nationalization and the withdrawal of this
staff, virtually no expertise was left within the CODELCO Group. The inability
to prepare and present projects for management decision is very obvious, and
at present decisions are taken on the basis of, at best, a superficial evalu-
ation. As such, management has considerable difficulties establishing invest-
ment priorities.
75.       Also with the nationalization of the companies and the formation of
the CODELCO Group, it becomes very necessary to coordinate the investments
and planning of each of the companies. Decisions can no longer be made in
isolation. The investment decisions need to be reoriented away from the needs
and objectives of the former parent companies to the needs of Chile, and
specifically CODELCO. Project priorities have to be assigned not only within
the individual companies but between the companies.  This requires the setting
up of a complete and coordinated planning function.
76.       The program as now envisaged is to engage an integrated and balanced
team of experts to in effect establish an integrated planning function within
the CODELCO Group along the principles of good corporate management. The group
will work very closely with the counterparts, and a major part of its task will
be to train the counterparts in project evaluation and planning. The team will
be made up of mining, metallurgical and civil engineers, economists and
financial analysts, all conversant and experienced in project evaluation.
Some members of the team will, along with their counterparts be assigned to
the individual mines/plants to identify projects and direct their preparation
and evaluation. Projects will be evaluated on the grounds of technical,
financial and commercial viability, management needs, expertise needs, infra-
structure requirements, linkages with other operations and projects. Pre-
feasibility studies will be prepared and fed into the planning unit for
project scheduling and assigning priorities. To the extent full feasibility
studies can be done in-house, this will be started, otherwise terms of re-
ference will be prepared and consultants engaged.
77.       The end result of this program is to be:
(a) an operating planning function will be set up within the CODELCO
Group;
(b) a definitive 5 year production and investment program
will be established (not just a project list but full
schedules);



ANNEX 4
Page 26
(c) a development strategy for the CODELCO Group for 10
years will be developed; and
(d) a system for project evaluation will be established.
78.       While major emphasis will be placed upon training counterpart
personnel it is expected that even at the end of the two year consultant
contract, additional assistance will be required. The financing for such
assistance would come from CODELCO cash flow.
79.       Development of Smelting and Refining Strategy for Chile:  Chile
has a severe shortage of smelting and refining capacity and requires con-
siderable investment in these areas. There are, however, several alternative
courses of action, in terms of type of smelting process, location of smelter
and refinery, size of installation, and timing for investment. The objective
of the study is to evaluate the possible alternatives, and develop an optimum
strategy, taking into account the total sector requirements, not just of
CODELCO but also of ENAMI and the private mines. Factors such as infra-
structure investment needs, the use of by-product sulphuric acid, availability
of operating staff, training requirements, investment needs, technical assist-
ance needs etc. wiLl be taken into account.
80.       Obviously, this study must be fully coordinated with the planning
unit discussed above. A team of four experts, working in collaboration with
counterparts from CODELCO and ENAMI should be able to complete the study within
6 months.
81.       El Teniente Long-Term tining Plan:  The El Teniente Mine is the
largest underground mine in the world, and has over the past 50 years operated
very successtully, using the block-caving mining method. However, the opera-
tions to date have been in the secondary ore zones where the ore is friable
and fractures readily providing an output of more than 300 tons per grissly
shift with block caving, whereas an output of only 30 tons per grissly shift
can be obtained in the harder primary ore zones. This 10 fold reduction in
output can have very serious ramification on the Teniente Mine, in terms of
the number of blocks requiring simultaneous development (hence capital invest-
ment), number of employees, operating costs and capacity of the mine. Sufficient
reserves of friable ore remain to ensure production at the existing levels for
about 5 years, hence by this time a new method must be developed and ready for
production. This means immediate research into alternative methods if mine
production is to be maintained.
82.       The objective of the technical assistance is to provide two or three
mining experts with considerable experience to study alternative methods of
mining El Teniente's primary ore. Such methods as sublevel caving, open
stoping prefragmentation of the block caves, etc. would be reviewed. This
will require longhole drilling and blasting trials, trial stope preparation,
and possibly equipment trials. This study would be carried out in conjunction
with a team of CODELCO engineers and production crews, and would continue
through to the production stage, 5 or more years. Only the initial two years
of this program are considered here as part of the technical assistance pro-
gram.



ANNEX 4
Page 27
83.       Chuguicamata Long Term Mining Plan:  The Chuquicamata pit has reached
a state - advanced by the lack of adequate pit planning over the past 4 years,
some improper practices, and a major slide - where it has become necessary
to develop a long-term mining plan. This is necessary not only to improve
pit efficiency, but also to improve recoveries. A priori, any major increase
in Chile's copper output should initially come from the Chuquicamata pit, and for
such it is necessary to develop careful plans. It is expected that 2 experts
working in conjunction with counterparts could complete this plan within 18
months. At present the concentrator forms the bottleneck whereas the pit
equipment has excess capacity which could be increased with improved scheduling
and operation. Now is an opportune time for using this excess capacity for
overburden removal to develop new reserves for subsequent expansions of the
processing facilities. This study will be coordinated with the planning unit.
84.       Specific Experts:  With the loss of engineers over the past several
years CODELCO faces considerable problems particularly in the mineral processing
and metallurgical areas, for which it does not have the expertise to solve
these problems. What is envisaged here, is for CODELCO to engage several such
experts on a retainer basis, who will be on call as problems arise.
85.       Reorganization of the CODELCO Group:  As discussed in Annex 2-4,
the present organization of CODELCO evolved rather than having been created
by design.  Hence, its operation as an integrated holding company is made dif-
ficult by confusion of functional and line linkages. The lines of responsibil-
ity are not clearly defined and much ambiguity and redundancy prevails. The
need for head offices of each of the companies to be located in Santiago seems
questionable. Their closure should be considered to strengthen the CODELCO
financing, planning, production control and administration functions. A local
consultant firm has been engaged to review the total corporate structure and
recommend re-structuring. However, since CODELCO is now the largest copper
company in the world outside the USSR, it is considered necessary to engage
a team of foreign experts with considerable experience in the administration
and operation of large integrated resource companies, to collaborate with
those consultants, in recommending a new organizational, operational, financial
and legal structure. More importantly these experts will be required to assist
CODELCO senior management implement the changes. A considerable streamlining
of the organization should be possible. It is expected that it would take up
to 2 years to implement the major changes, but the program would by necessity
continue for several years thereafter. The major barrier will be the unavail-
ability of suitable personnel to fill some of the middle and upper middle
management levels. A gap in the senior management levels will also be difficult
to fill.
86.       Internal Procedures:  Coupled with a program for reorganization is
a program for revising the internal corporate procedures. The cost accounting
procedures vary between the operating units depending upon the former owners.
Improvement and standardization of these procedures is required. The inventory
control systems in use are generally antiquated and need considerable improve-
ment. Coordination between the operating units can help to minimize inventory
levels, improve service and thus reduce the costs of holding stocks and



ANNEX 4
Page 28
reduce lost production. The collection and distribution of data is at present
a piecemeal process. In many cases, there is a lack of information available
to the decision makers, and the data base is often not accurate. There is
very definitely a need to revamp the total information system of the CODELCO
Group. New measuring devices and systems are required, standardization
of data and reports is needed, and careful assessment of the flow of inform-
ation and reports is needed. Coupled with this is the need to improve pro-
duction and budgetary control systems. The concept of profit centers and
manager accountability should very importantly be introduced. At present, there
is an obvious lack of cost consciousness among the operators, and considerable
scope exists for reducing costs for all operations.
87.       Therefore a technical assistance program is justified.  Experts are
required in cost accounting, inventory control, data collection, data proces-
sing, information systems, budgetary control, production control and computer
operation. The company is proceeding with the installation of electronic
data processing equipment: a program that will take about 5 years to complete.
The proposed technical assistance program supplements this program. Emphasis
of this assistance is to be upon designing and implementing the new systems,
and training the counterparts. The program is complex and could best be
handled by a team under the direction of a project manager reporting to senior
CODELCO management.
3.   EXECUTION
88.       All parts of the program will be joint efforts between foreign
experts and local counterparts. Emphasis is to be placed upon implementation
and training. Teams would be formed for each component, with clearly defined
terms of reference, and lines of responsibility. Coordination between the
teams will be very important and directed through a senior official designated
by CODELCO. Coordination between the CODELCO head office and the companies
and between the departments will also be crucial to the success of the pro-
gram wnicn tnus has to be directed from the top.



ANNEX 4
Page 29
4.   SCHEDULE
89.       A tentative schedule is as follows:
Timing for Activities
Preparation   Selection                 Completion
of Terms of   of Con-                      of
Reference     sultant    Field Work   Program
Planning, Project Evaluation    May-June'76   Sept'76    Oct-76-oct178 Continuing
Development of Smelter Strategy May-June'76   Sept'76    Oct'76-Mar'77 Mar'77
El Teniente Mining Plan          May-June'76   Sept'76    Oct'76-Aug'78 Continuing
Chuquicamata Mining Plan         May-June'76   Sept'76    Oct'76-May'78 May'78
Specific Experts                 ----------- No fixed schedule ------------------
Reorganization                   May-June'76   Sept'76    Oct'76-Sept'78 Continuing
Internal Procedures              May-June'76   Sept'76    Oct'76-Sept'78 Continuing



ANNEX 4
Page 30
5.   COST
90.       The cost of the program is estimated as follows:
Local       Foreign
Currency     Currency    Total
- (US$ Million) 
a)  Foreign Experts   $5,8U0/mm)
- Planning Project Evaluation (20 my)       -          1.39         1.39
- Smelter Strategy (2 my)                  -           0.14         0.14
- Teniente Mining Plan (5 my)              -           0.35         0.35
- Chuquicamata Mine Plan (3 my)            -           0.21         0.21
- Specific Experts (4 my)                  -           0.28         0.28
- Reorganization (5 my)                    -           0.35         0.35
- Internal Procedures (18 my)              -           1.25         1.25
Sub-Total                               -           3.97        3.97
b)  Counterpart Staffing '   $1,500/mm)
- Planning, Project Evaluation (30 my)   0.54           -           0.54
- Smelter Strategy (2 my)                 0.04          -           0.04
- Teniente Mine Plan (20 my)              0.36          -           0.36
- Chuquicamata Mine Plan (5 my)           0.09          -           0.09
- Reorganization (5 my)                   0.09          -           0.09
- Internal Procedures (40 my)             0.72          -           0.72
Sub-Total                              1.84          -          1.84
c)  CODELCO Contribution in Kind
- Transport, Vehicles, Facilities,
Subsistence                             0.35          -          0.35
d)  Air Travel                               0.10         -           0.10
Sub-Total                         2.29         3.97        6.26
Contingencies (Local 20%, Foreign 10%)      0.43         0.41         0.84
Price Escalation (10%/Year)                  0.26        0.61         0.87
Total Program Cost                2.98         4.99        7.97
/1   Most of this will be existing staff and thus not represent additional
staffing cost.



AMNE 4
Page 31
91.       In addition it will be necessary to purchase equipment for the
Teniente Mining study, the nature and cost of which can only be determined
during the study itself.
6. PROCUREMENI
92.       The consultants will be recruited on an international basis, and
selection made on the basis of a technical evaluation of proposals submitted.
Prices would then be negotiated.
7.   FINANCING PLAN
93.       The technical assistance program will be financed as follows:
Local       Foreign
Currency     Currency       Total
-------- (US$ Million)  -------
IBRD                                     -           4.99          4.99
CODELCO Funds                           2.98                       2.98
Total                              2.98         4.99          7.97
8.   BENEFITS
94.       The benefits from the program are expected to be very significant.
Improved planning and project evaluation will result in a better selection of
projects, earlier project implementation and improved fiuancial planning. The
smelter and refinery study could result in very large savings in terms of
future investment and operating costs. The Teniente mining plan has to be
undertaken if the mine is to continue operating at its present level. The
Chuquicamata Mining Plan is similarly a prerequisite to future operation ex-
pansion. The specific experts are expected - by assisting in eliminating
processing bottlenecks and problems - to save substantial amounts in terms
of lost production and production cost. Reorganization and implementation
of the internal procedures should provide an enormous payoff in terms of
cost savings and increased production.
95.       Without a program such as this the absorptive capacity of CODELCO
would restrict future expansion programs, production increases and CODELCO's
ability to remain competitive.
G.   TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:  PROGRAM FOR ENAMI
1.   BACKGROUND
117.      While the sector accounts for less than 20 percent of mineral pro-
duction it provides employment for more than 10,000. Furthermore, the live-
lihood of a multiple of this number depends upon this sector. ENAMI has



ANNEX 4
Page 32
overall responsiblity for this sector (see Annexes 2-2 and 2-4), and has in
the past assisted by providing credit and technical assistance to the private
miners. Also a substantial effort was directed to establishing regional
concentrating plants. The two ENAMI smelters also custom treat the ores and
concentrates of the private and small state mines.
2.  PURPOSE
The purpose of the technical assistance program for ENAMI will be
threefold:
(i) to improve present planning procedures;
(ii) to finance specific technical and economic feasibility
studies; and
(iii) to assist ENAMI in diversification of its mineral
production.
3.   SCOPE OF ENAMI TECHNICAL PROGRAM
The proposed technical assistance program would comprise three
major components:
a)   Technical Assistance Directed at Improving Investment Planning
and Project Preparation Procedures
ENAMI's planning department is weak and has very limited experience
in carrying out project preparation and evaluation work. These deficiencies
are not attributable to an exodus of professional staff or to the fact that
these functions were once carried out by foreign owners--as was the case of
the Gran Mineria companies--but to the lack of a good planning tradition
within ENAMI since its formation. The proposed technical assistance program
envisages engaging a team of consulting experts--analagous but independent
to what is proposed for CODELCO in paragraphs 95-99--which would improve the
present planning functions of ENAMI. A team of mining engineers, economists
and financial analysts would work closely with ENAMI counterparts in identi-
fying specific investment projects and in preparing terms of reference. The
objectives of this program would be to:
a)   to establish an efficient planning group within ENAMI,
including a standard system for project evaluation;
b)   prepare a five-year investment program for ENAMI's
present and future operations;
c)   collaborate with the Ministry of Mines, CODELCO and
other government entities in the elaboration of a
development strategy for the small and medium mining
sector.



ANNEX 4
Page 33
The proposed program would include training of ENAMI personnel.
b)   Technical Assistance for Technical and Economic Feasibility Studies
In addition to the need to improve overall investment planning,
project preparation and evaluation, financing is required to contract consul-
ting services to examine a small nunber of concrete problems, some of them
technical, which ENAMI is currently experiencing and which could lead to
specific investment projects employing new technologies. These possibilities
include:
(i) Juan Godoy Plant - the feasibility of utilizing solvent
extraction techniques in the exploitation of copper oxide
mineral ore. The difficulties being experienced by ENAMI
in assuring a ready supply of scrap iron for the production
of copper cement after prior leaching of the copper oxide
minerals has focussed attention on the possibility of em-
ploying a different technological process--solvent extraction--
to confront these problems arising trom the world shortage
and high cost of scrap iron. ENAMI has begun preliminary
studies on this matter and requires technical assistance to
evaluate in depth the technical and economic feasibility
of installing such a plant on a small scale to produce
approximately 1U,UUU tons per year of fine copper using
the relatively new technology of solvent extraction.
ENAMI would study the applicability of this process in
the Juan Godoy Plant currently being constructed. A possible
second stage would examine the feasibility of extending the
scope of this process to other ENAMI processing plants. The
total cost of the study is tentatively estimated to be
US$10,000.
(it) Use of Iron "Sponge" to Precipitate Copper from Leaching
Solutions. The possibility of using iron "sponge" as a
substitute for scrap iron has been given consideration.
However, it has not yet been possible to study the behav-
iour of different kinds of iron "sponge" in the precipitation
ot copper cement. It is proposed to investigate the feasibil-
ity of using such a material on a pilot plant scale first
before considering its possible application in an industrial-
sized plant. This would be done in collaboration with CIMM.
(iii) Compaction ot Copper Cement
Substantial losses of copper occur in the form of copper
cement due to the physical characteristics of this product
as finely pulverized dust. The objective of the study is to
transform the copper precipitates into a more compact
material that is both easier to handle and to transport
while at the same time being economically feasible. The



ANNEX 4
Page 34
technical feasibility of studies (ii) and (iii) would be carried
out in collaboration with CIMM, the applied research and devel-
opment center in the copper mining sector.
c)   Technical Assistance Aimed at Diversidication of Chile's
Mineral Production
A major element in ENAMI's future role in the mineral sector will
be to encourage the exploitation of Chile's considerable, but as yet poorly
defined, mineral reserves outside of copper. Recovery of significant non-
copper metallic by products already takes place from ENAMI's smelting opera-
tions. Emphasis in the future will include the exploitation of:
(i)  Lead and Zinc
The size and grade of Chile's lead and sinz containing mineral
reserves have not been well delineated. Although IIG has been
recently active in geological prospection work very little
exploitation of these reserves is currently taking place (the
Silva mine in Aisen accounting for 70% of national production).
Considerable geological work remains to be done and foreign
expertise will be required to define the real potential of
these mineral reserves. Copper mineral is the principal
product of Cutter's Cove mining development in the far south
of Chile (present capacity 400 tons/month). Both lead and
zinc are not presently recovered during the flotation process.
An additional circuit is being considered for the existing
plant aimed at recovery of these two metals. Foreign consul-
ting services will be needed to collaborate in undertaking
the feasibility and basic engineering work.
(ii) Gold
Chile has numerous ore deposits which contain appreciable
quantities of gold-containing minerals. In the past, ex-
ploitation of these deposits has depended on rudimentary
methods and it is estimated that the greater proportion of
Chile's reserves remains still undeveloped. Outdated tech-
nologies and extraction methods, sketchy geological informa-
tion, and the absence of water in the northern desert areas,
have contributed to preventing a systematic and efficient
exploitation of Chile's gold-containing mineral reserves.
It is proposed to contract foreign consulting services which
would endeavour to rationalize present exploitation methods
as well as introduce more appropriate extraction methods
(e.g., the concentration of gold-containing minerals without
the use of water) and a greater degree of mechanization.



ANNEX 4
Page 35
4.   EXECUTION
The various components of the technical assistance program would
be undertaken by teams of consultants and technical experts, the majority
of which are expected to be foreign experts although some may be obtained
from local consulting firms. Any pilot plant studies that need to be under-
taken would be carried out in collaboration with CIMM.
5.   SCHEDULE
The tentative schedule for the program is as follows:
Timing for Activities
Preparation of      Seclection of        Field       Completion of
Terms of Reference    Consultant           Work           Program
(i) Planning, project
evaluation          June-July 76          Sept. 76   Oct. 76-Oct. 77   Oct. 77
(ii) Technical-economic
feasibility         June-Oct. 76          Aug-Dec 76 Nov. 76-Dec. z7   Dec. 77
(iii) Diversification of
mineral produc-
tion             June-Oct. 76          Nov. 76-   Nov. 76-Nov. 78   Nov. 78
Nov. 78
6.   COSTS
The estimated foreign exchange costs of the technical assistance
program are as follows:
(US$)
(i)  Planning systems, project evaluation        130,000
(2 experts for 1 year)
(ii)  Technical/economic feasibility studies    220,000
(iii)  Diversification of mineral production        50,000
400,000



ANNEX 4
Page 36
Total costs are:
Local       Foreign
Currency     Currency          Total
Foreign experts                 -             300             300
Counterparts                   60              -               60
Other costs                     -              30              30
Subtotal                  60             330             390
Contingencies (10%)             6              35              41
Price escalation (10% year)    6               35              41
Total                     72             400             472
7.   PROCUREMENT
The consultants and technical specialists will be recruited inter-
nationally, and selection made upon the basis of a technical evaluation of
the proposlas submitted.
8.   FINANCING PLAN
The study w-ill be financed as follows:
Local       Foreign
Currency     Currency             Total
IBRD                           -           400                 400
ENAMI funds                   72            -                   72
Total                    72           400                 472
9.   BENEFITS
The benefits of the technical assistance program can be expected
to considerably increase planning efficiency, improved investment program
making and, in certain cases, increased production efficiency of minerals.
Industrial Projects Department
December 20, 1975






I BRD 11417
Aricao0
t                                      Mor  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOL(.'f4
W                                  72§      > ;-          X               t              w      >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MCH 
<~~~<V ~~~~~2~~~' ~Pisayuc~   LrO,D
-20f                              IQUIQUE.  SAGASCA
0:  i
u
o,.    S                                       %              ''~~~~~~~~~~~~(  DUELR14'NDA   '-"' '"'
I                                                         S~~~~~~~~~~  LAf\WCAiO
b    _                            t                '---.- ---- g~~~~~~~~~EL 46A.R-A
-22 76-                       7'4-                                   TocopilloW                                  i
CHILE                                 C° nlamo o  E,¾
COPPER MINING  SECTOR                                                        SanPedrodeAtacamo -
. G NMANrOS 6LANCO.'
g GRAN  MINERIA                         ANTOFAGASTA                 -.- -
-24-                 MEDIANA MINERIA                                                                            /
A  ENAMI SMELTERS
:    KNOWN ORE BODIES                                                                   . 
- -  - PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                      Taltai-
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
26°                                                                                 EL SA f VADOR                2...
8arquitoO
0 
0         100        200        300         400             .       pirpO          r
KILOMETERS
-28-      0        50       00      150      200      250                                                         2 Z0,
MILES                                   0Vallenar
30  I                                Ot                           EM If N A.
30'                                         0~~I                    030
30-                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Andocollo    '.          
<             ° f>0 ANDACOL60r' j  ,'-;
COC) QJAp7 ,- ,                .
Illapel
32- -
141                            E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
ACO._ii],a..          ;--                         ;.
VENTrANASAsAn79  " i
VALPARAISO            -.,                  ,
VALPARAi5Cn                       A;                      .
San Antonio 0       (SANTA       -
,'.1I' !T 4 GO2f_                 -   
34-        7he  d.,iooda  ohn on his nep do nor              -Rncgua           E
i.ply ondor-t or -ccepr-nco by th,                         0                  rE
Wor7d Ben7k and Ir CffihiCHA s' /                               4          .
76                       714.                    7X2  C00CHI ,;                                     )<-  ......... '  6p0i 



