CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1200 CH
Project Agreement
(Copper Sector Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE MINERIA
DATED MARCH 24, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1200 CH
Project Agreement
(Copper Sector Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE MINERIA
DATED MARCH 24, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 24, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE MINERIA (hereinafter called ENAMI).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic
of Chile (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to
lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-three
million dollars ($33,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that ENAMI agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and ENAMI, the Borrower has agreed to relend to ENAMI an amount
in various currencies equivalent to three million four hundred and six thousand
dollars ($3,460,000) out of the proceeds of the Loan on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ENAMI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require. the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Project
Section 2.01. ENAMI shall carry out Part B of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist ENAMI in carrying out Part B(ii) of
the Project, ENAMI shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and cond.tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   ENAMI shall assign, for training with the consultants referred to in
the preceding paragraph (a), such counterpart personnel as shall be required for
Part B(ii) of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, goods, works and
services (other than consultants' services) for Part B of the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with. the provisions
of Schedule I to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) ENAMI undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by ENAMI
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, ENAMI shall cause all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) ENAMI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   ENAMI: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Part B of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in Part B of the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon   the provisions of paragraph    (c) of this Section, enaA.     the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites incluc:J in Part B of
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning Part B of the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so relent to it and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
0


﻿5
(c)   ENAMI shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all plants,
installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of ENAMI and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. ENAMI shall duly perform all its obligations under its
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ENAMI
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving its Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) ENAMI shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views
with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   ENAMI shall promptly inform     the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Part B of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by ENAMI
of its obligations under this Agreement and under its Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. ENAMI shall take all reasonable measures to ensure that the
execution and operation of Part B of the Project are carried out with due regard
to ecological and environmental factors.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ENAMI
Section 3.01. ENAMI shall at all times manage its affairs, carry on its
operations and maintain its financial position, all in accordance with appropriate
engineering, financial and administrative practices, and under the supervision of
experienced and competent management.
Section 3.02. ENAMI shall at all times take all steps necessary: (i) to maintain
its right to carry on its operations, including Part B of the Project, and (ii) except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, to acquire and to retain such land, properties,
including mining properties, and interests thereon, and to acquire, maintain and
renew such licenses, consents, franchises or other rights, as may be necessary or
useful for the conduct of its operations.
Section 3.03. ENAMI shall operate and maintain its plant, equipment,
properties and facilities and make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all
in accordance with appropriate engineering practices.


﻿6
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ENAMI shall not
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets required
for the efficient carrying on of its operations, including Part B of the Project.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, ENAMI shall obtain
title to all goods financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of the Loan,
free and clear of all liens.
Section 3.06. ENAMI shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the  Bank for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ENAMI shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. ENAMI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of ENAMI and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. ENAMI shall: (i) consult with the Bank prior to modifying
its pricing policies referred to in Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement; and (ii)
take all necessary steps for improving the operational efficiency of its mining,
concentrating, smelting and refining facilities in order to reduce its operating costs.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿7
Section 5.02, This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ENAMI
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                               Telex:
INTBAFRAD                                    44098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUJ)
For ENAMI:
Empresa Nacional de Mineria
Mac Iver 459
Casilla 100-D
Santiago, Chile


﻿8
Cable address:                               Telex:
ENAMI                                        40574
Santiago
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of FNAMI may be taken or executed by its Executive Vice-President or such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. ENAMI shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of ENAMI, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by ENAMI pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE MINERIA
By /s / Andres Zauschquevich
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    Minor equipment and materials, estimated to cost not more than the
equivalent of $50,000 each, shall be procured after solicitation of quotations from
suppliers in at least three countries which shall be members of the Bank (including
Switzerland), provided that the aggregate cost of the goods so to be procured shall
not exceed the equivalent of $250,000.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic and
Regional Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Chile and in countries which are a party to the Latin
American Free Trade Association and the -artagena Agreement may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
to be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following four groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Chile if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of ENAMI and the Bank


﻿10
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Chile equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Chile.
(3)   Group C: bids offering goods manufactured in a country other
than Chile which is a party to the Latin American Free Trade
Association and the Cartagena Agreement.
(4)   Group D: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result c f the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C or group D, all group C and group D bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to
the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods offered in each group C and group D
bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid,
or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid or a group C bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(e)   If, as a result of the further comparison under paragraph (d) above,
a bid from group D is the lowest, all group D bids shall be finally compared with
the lowest evaluated bid from group C, as determined Linder paragraph (c) above,
after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each group
D bid, for the purpose of this final comparison only, an amount equal to the
smaller of (i) the difference between the amount of customs duties and other import
taxes which would actually be payable for the importation of goods offered in
such group D bid and for the importation of goods offered in the group C bid,
or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. price of goods to be imported offered in such group D
bid. If the lowest bid in such comparison is the group C bid, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group D, as determined under
paragraph (c) above, shall be selected for the award.


﻿11
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)   Before bids are invited, ENAMI shall furnish to the Bank, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documcnts or
procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, ENAMI shall inform the
Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, ENAMI shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ENAMI and
state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution before sending to the Bank the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


