CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1200 CH
Project Agreement
(Copper Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A.
Dated September 28, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1200 CH
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A. (hereinafter
called ENDESA).
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement dated March 24, 1976 (hereinafter
called the Loan Agreement) between Republic of Chile (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount (hereinafter called the Loan)
in various currencies equivalent to thirty-three million dollars
($33,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the said
Loan Agreement but only on condition that ENDESA agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set forth;
(B) by an amending agreement to the Loan Agreement (herein-
after called the Amending Agreement) of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank and Corporaci6n Nacional del Cobre de
Chile and Empresa Nacional de Minerfa, the Bank has agreed to
make available to the Borrower the amount of the Loan, on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement as amended by
the Amending Agreement, but only on condition that ENDESA agree to
undertake such obligations towards the Bank as hereinafter set
forth;
(C) by a subsidiary loan agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and ENDESA (hereinafter called the ENDESA
Subsidiary Loan Agreement) part of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement as amended by the Amending
Agreement will be relent to ENDESA on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ENDESA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement and the Amending Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in


﻿-2-
the Loan Agreement as amended by the Amending Agreement, the
Preambles to this Agreement and to the Amending Agreement and the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ENDESA shall carry out Part C of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, as amended by
Section 2.07 of the Amending Agreement and as such Schedule
may be further amended by agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ENDESA undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by ENDESA to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, ENDESA shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for Part
C of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) ENDESA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contracts documents and construction anC procurement schedules for
Part C of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) ENDESA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Part C of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose


﻿-3-
the use thereof in Part C of the Project; (ii) shall, without
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section,
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in Part C of the Project and any other
facility related thereto and to examine the goods financed out of
such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning Part C of the Project, the expendi-
ture of the proceeds of the Loan so relent to it and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) ENDESA shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of ENDESA and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.05. ENDESA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the ENDESA Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ENDESA shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the ENDESA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) ENDESA shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
Part C of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, under the contracts referred to in Sections 2.09
and 2.10 of this Agreement and under the ENDESA Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the carrying out of the Program and the performance of
the obligations of CODELCO under Sections 3.09 and 3.10 of the
CODELCO Project Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
(b) ENDESA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the
carrying out of the Program and the performance of the obligations
of CODELCO under Sections 3.09 and 3.10 of the CODELCO Project
Agreement, or the performance by ENDESA of its obligations under
this Agreement, under the contracts referred to in Sections 2.09
and 2.10 of this Agreement and under the ENDESA Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.07. ENDESA shall carry out the Program (other than
Part C of the Project) so as to permit, in a manner satisfactory


﻿to the Bank, the timely and efficient carrying out of Part C of
the Project.
Section 2.08. ENDESA shall take all reasonable measures to
ensure that the execution and operation of the Project and of the
Program are carried out with due regard to ecological and environ-
mental factors.
Section 2.09. ENDESA shall:
(a) enter with CODELCO into a contract for the purpose of
the sale of electricity by ENDESA to CODELCO for the operation of
El Salvador mining complex, such contract to be on terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Bank which will include, inter alia,
a rate for the sale of electricity calculated as being not lower
than the equivalent of $0,0395 per kilowatt- hour or calculated in
such other manner as it shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b) during a three-year period to be counted from the
first sale of electricity under such contract, not change or fail
to enforce, and cause CODELCO not to change or fail to enforce,
such contract or any provision thereof.
Section 2.10. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ENDESA shall:
(a) enter with CODELCO, or other financial source acceptable
to the Bank, into a contract which shall provide for a loan to
ENDESA in an amount of not less than $13,300,000 equivalent, on
financial terms and conditions which shall not be worse than those
then prevailing in the international financial market for similar
loans made or to be made to CODELCO or ENDESA;
(b) use the proceeds of the loan referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section for purposes of carrying out Part C of the
Project; and
(c) comply with all its obligations under the contract
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and shall not change
or fail to enforce, and cause each other party to such contract
not to change or fail to enforce, such contract or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.11. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ENDESA shall take all such action as shall be necessary to defer,


﻿-5-
in accordance with the Regulations, payments to be made by ENDESA
on account of customs duties and value-added taxes applicable on
goods imported into Chile for purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ENDESA
Section 3.01. (a) ENDESA shall at all times maintain its
existence and shall, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business.
(b) ENDESA shall at all times conduct its operations
under competent and experienced management, in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices and with the assistance of adequate, competent
and experienced staff.
(c) ENDESA shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and
repair its facilities, plants, equipment and machinery in accor-
dance with appropriate engineering and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. ENDESA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ENDESA shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any
of its properties or assets required for the efficient carrying
out of its operations, including Part C of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ENDESA shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. ENDESA shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,


﻿-6-
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of ENDESA and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Amending Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of ENDESA thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement as amended by the Amending Agreement shall termi-
nate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement as amended by the Amending
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to Lhe party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-7-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ENDESA:
Empresa Nacional de Electricidad, S.A.
(ENDESA)
Santa Rosa 76
Santiago, Chile
Cable address:                    Telex:
ENDESA                            NDESA 40491 CL
Santiago, Chile
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ENDESA may be taken or executed by
its General Manager or such other person or persons as such
General Manager shall designate in writing, and ENDESA shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 8 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Eugenio Lari
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A.
By /s/ Augusto Matte Garces
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, ENDESA shall prepare and forward
to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. ENDESA shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to ENDESA of inland freight and other expendi-
tures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Chile
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 10 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Chile if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Bank and ENDESA that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Chile equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Chile.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 11 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment and materials for the substations
included in Part C (ii) (b) and (c) of the Project and for tele-
communications equipment included in Part C (i) and (ii) (a)
of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may
be awarded, after requesting, whenever possible, quotations from
different suppliers in not less than three countries which shall
be members of the Bank (including Switzerland), to suppliers from
such countries; provided, however, that:
(a) the aggregate cost of the items so procured shall
not exceed $500,000 equivalent; and
(b) the Bank is satisfied that such awards are justified
by considerations of efficiency and economy.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ENDESA shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ENDESA
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform ENDESA and state the reasons for
such determination.


﻿- 12 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
ENDESA shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and
prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform ENDESA and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, ENDESA shall inform the Bank
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform ENDESA and state the reasons for its
determination.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
The Program
ENDESA's general power system expansion program for supplying
electricity from the Interconnected System to the northern region
of the Borrower's territory consists of:
(A) Installation of switchgear, transformer, voltage-
regulating and reactive-compensation equipment at
the substations located at Cerro Navia, Los Vilos, Pan
de AzG'car and Maitencillo, as required for each of
such substations;
(B) Construction of about 430 km of double-circuit 220 kV
transmission line connecting Cerro Navia and Pan de
Azucar;
(C) Construction of about 200 km of double-circuit 220 kV
transmission line connecting Pan de AzG"car and Maiten-
cillo; and
(D) Part C of the Project.


