CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1200 CH
Loan Agreement
(Copper Sector Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK 'A RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MARCH 24, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1200 CH
Loan Agreement
(Copper Sector Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MARCH 24, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 24, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF CHILE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out, with the Borrower's assistance, partly
by Corporaci6n del Cobre (hereinafter called CODELCO) and partly by Empresa
Nacional de Mineria (hereinafter called ENAMI) and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will relend to CODELCO and ENAMI the proceeds of the Loan
as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the terms and
conditions set forth hereinafter and in the project agreements of even date herewith
between the Bank and CODELCO and ENAMI, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means either of the two agreements between the
Bank and CODELCO and ENAMI, respectively, of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes the schedule to the
Project Agreement;


﻿4
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means either of the two agreements
between the Borrower and CODELCO and ENAMI, respectively, pursuant to
Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes the schedule to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "CODELCO" means Corporacion del Cobre, an empresa del Estado,
and such term includes any successor thereto; and
(d)   "ENAMI" means Empresa Nacional de Mineria, an empresa del Estado,
and such term includes any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-three million dollars ($33,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, goods, works and
services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreements.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1979 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March 1 5 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. CODELCO is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions with respect to expenditures of CODELCO for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.10. ENAMI is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions with respect to expenditures of ENAMI for Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE III
The Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CODELCO and
ENAMI to perform, in accordance with the provisions of their respective Project
Agreement and Subsidiary Loan Agreement, all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision, on terms
satisfactory to the Bank, of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable CODELCO and ENAMI to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend to CODELCO and ENAMI, respectively, such
portion of the Loan as shall be disbursed by the Bank in respect of Part A of
the Project in the case of CODELCO and of Part B of the Project in the case
of ENAMI, under Subsidiary Loan Agreements the terms and conditions of which
shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive
either of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making loans to, or with
the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in normal circumstances, special security
fror the member concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member. To that end,
if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit
of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason such
provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any lien created on
property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for payment of the
purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c)   As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means assets of the
Borrower, of any political or administrative subdivision thereof and of any entity
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower
or any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization
fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. In accordance with the recommendations of its present review
of the organization of the copper sector, the Borrower shall, within one year from
the date of this Agreement or such other period as the Bank shall agree, take
all necessary steps to transform CODELCO and its subsidiaries into a single fully
integrated enterprise, with centralized functions of planning, sales, purchases and
administration, and shall provide the management of each of CODELCO's mines
with sufficient authority and autonomy to operate it as a separate profit center.


﻿7
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, within one year from the date of this
Agreement or such other period as the Bank shall agree, establish, and thereafter
maintain, an entity to control and coordinate the planning and policy-making
functions in the Chilean copper sector.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall consult with the Bank before modifying
ENAMI's pricing policies regarding the purchase of ore and concentrates from small
and medium sized mines, as such policies are provided in the Oficios of the Minister
of Finance to the Minister of Mines, dated December 31, 1974 and January 10,
1975.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   CODELCO or ENAMI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under its respective Project Agreement or under its respective Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CODELCO or ENAMI
or for the suspension of its operations: and
(c)   an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that CODELCO or ENAMI will be able to perform its obligations under
its respective Project Agreement or under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any of the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and CODELCO or
ENAMI, as the case may be: and
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.


﻿8
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreements on behalf of
CODELCO and ENAMI have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action; and
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements on
behalf of the Borrower and CODELCO and ENAMI, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that each Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, CODELCO and ENAMI, respectively,
and is legally binding upon CODELCO and ENAMI, respectively, in accordance
with its terms; and
(b)   that each Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and CODELCO
and ENAMI, respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and,
respectively, CODELCO and ENAMI in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date June 24, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Mines of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿9
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Mineria
Teatinos 120
Santiago
Chile
Cable address:
Ministerio de Mineria
Santiago
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington. D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INTBAFRAD                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the     parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
Countersigned on behalf          REPUBLIC OF CHILE
of the Controller General
of the Republic of Chile
By /s / Manuel Trucco            By /s / Manuel Trucco
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin Ainerica and the Caribbean


﻿to
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of amounts of the Loan to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Equipment and                 18,650,000         100% of foreign
materials for                                    expenditures or
Part A(i), (ii)                                   100% of ex-factory
and (iii)                                         price of locally
produced goods
(2)   Equipment and ma-              2,420,000         100% of foreign
terials for Part                                  expenditures or
B(i)                                              100% of ex-factory
price of locally
produced goods
(3)   Technical assis-
tance:
(a)   Part A(iv)               3,970,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  Part B(ii)                  330,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(4)   Unallocated:
(a)  Part A                    6,920,000
(b)   Part B                     710,000
TOTAL        33,000,000


﻿11
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of a country other than th- Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above. no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A.:    Large-scale Mining (CODELCO)
(i)         Installation of additional power generating units in the Barquito
power plant to improve security of the service, cover increases
in power consumption and replace existing diesel units in poor
condition.
(ii)       Installation of a primary underground crushing plant and related
infrastructure at the El Teniente mine to maintain present levels
of copper production of about 250,000 tons of copper per year.
(iii)       Construction of a selenium   recovery plant, with a 35 ton
capacity, to process the anode slimes from the Chuquicamata
and El Salvador mines.
(iv)        Utilization of specialist services to assist:
(a)   in project identification, preparation and evaluation, and
in the formulation of a 5-year investment program;
(b)   in studies to prepare (1) a comprehensive smelting and
refining development strategy and investment program for
CODELCO and Chile's copper sector as a whole; (2) a
long-term mining plan for El Teniente mine; and (3) a
long-term mining plan for the Chuquicamata mine;
(c)   in  solving  problems in  the mineral processing and
metallurgical plants;
(d)   in the reorganization of CODELCO and its subsidiaries
with a view to consolidating CODELCO and its subsidiaries
into a fully integrated enterprise; and
(e)   in  the  revision  of CODELCO's internal corporate
procedures, including cost accounting, inventory control,
data collection, data processing, information systems, and
production and budgetary control.


﻿13
Part B:    Medium and Small-scale Mining (ENAMI)
(i)        Replacement of antiquated or obsolete equipment at the Paipote
and Ventanas smelters and modification of both smelters'
burners to enable them to operate on petroleum products and
Chilean coal.
(ii)       Improvements in investment and financial planning, and studies
to evaluate the technical and economic feasibility of investment
projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1979.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 1979                                      870,000
March 15, 1980                                          910,000
September 15, 1980                                      950,000
March 15, 1981                                          990,000
September 15, 1981                                     1,030,000
March 15, 1982                                         1,080,000
September 15, 1982                                     1,120,000
March 15, 1983                                         1,170,000
September 15, 1983                                     1,215,000
March 15, 1984                                         1,275,000
September 15, 1984                                     1,325,000
March 15, 1985                                         1,380,000
September 15, 1985                                     1,440,000
March 15, 1986                                         1,500,000
September 15, 1986                                     1,565,000
March 15, 1987                                         1,630,000
September 15, 1987                                     1,705,000
March 15, 1988                                         1,770,000
September 15, 1988                                     1,850,000
March 15, 1989                                         1,925,000
September 15, 1989                                    2,010,000
March 15, 1990                                        2,095,000
September 15, 1990                                    2,195,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿15
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1-1/2%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                2-3/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                5-3/4%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                    7%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                8-1/2%


