Document of
FILE C gMpy                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2368-VN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOR THE
DAU TIENG IRRIGATION PROJECT
July 26, 1978
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00       -  Dong (D) 2.50 /1
D 1.00        =  $0.40
$1 million    -  D 2.5 million
D 1 million   =  $400,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)           =   0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                 =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (Km)             =   0.62 miles
1 Square Kilometer (sq K1m) -   0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)              =   2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (cu m)            5 35.31 cubic feet
I million cubic meters (MCM)-  811 acre feet
1 liter (1)                 -   0.264 U.S. gallon
1 liter/sec (1/sec)         5   0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (Kg)             =   2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)               2,205 pounds
CONVERSION FACTOR FOR RICE
1 ton paddy                 -   630 kg milled rice
CONVERSION FACTOR FOR GROUNDNUT
1 ton groundnut (unshelled) 3   700 Kg (shelled)
ABBREVIATIONS
HYV   -  High-Yielding Variety
MOA   - Ministry of Agriculture
MWC   -  Ministry of Water Conservancy
D     -  Dong-Vietnamese Currency
O&M   -  Operation and Maintenance
VIET NANESE FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -   December 31
/1  Before May 1978 different currencies circulated in southern and northern
Viet Nam* The exchange rate between the US dollar and the Northern Dong
(the currency used for all official transactions) varied monthly, averag-
ing approximately D2.80 per dollar in 1976 and D2.50 per dollar in 1977.
The latter rate is used throughout this report. A unified currency
system was introduced in early May 1978 (essentially by replacing the
Southern Dong with the Northern Dong) and the new Dong was pegged to the
SDR at the rate of D2.66358 per SDR. The Dong/US dollar rate is set on
the basis of the SDR/dollar exchange rate and was D2.19 per dollar at the
end of May 1978.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
VIET NAM
DAU TIENG IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
Amount:         US$60.0 million equivalent
Terms:           Standard IDA terms
Project
Description:  Major components of the proposed project are:
(a) construction of an earth dam and its appurtenant works
on the Saigon river in the southwestern part of Viet
Nam; and
(b) construction of a gravity irrigation system for about
42,000 ha of currently rainfed land, including an
adequate drainage network, inspection and access roads
and two low-lift pumping stations to serve about
4,000 ha within the 42,000 ha service area.
The project also makes provision for the engagement of
experts for the dam review panel; training of construction
engineers and heavy equipment operators and maintenance
personnel; procurement of vehicles, equipment, and con-
struction materials and supplies; and the preparation of a
comprehensive program for agricultural supporting services.
Project Benefits
and Risks:    Viet Nam imports some one to one and a half million tons of
cereals and the project will increase rice production by about
100,000 tons annually. About 110,000 people or some 21,000
farm families, many of them living on unirrigated land at
present, will benefit from the project. The project would
also help address another priority concern of the Government,
namely, the high level of unemployment in the south. It will
generate about 6.3 million man-days of agricultural work,
creating some 1,800 skilled and semi-skilled jobs and provide
some 30,000 seasonal jobs during the construction period.
No unsurmountable risks are expected; however, there might be
some problems encountered initially in the formation of
cooperatives. This could delay the implementation period but
is unlikely to materially affect the economic viability of
the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Costs: The table below summarizes the cost of the project:
% of
Local  Foreign   Total    F.E.
--- US$ million -----
Dam and appurtenances              9.1    42.9      52.0    83
Irrigation and drainage
systems                         9.3    28.9       38.2    76
Base cost                  18.4    71.8      90.2    80
Physical contingencies             1.6     7.9       9.5    80
Expected price increases             -    10.3      10.3   100
Total project cost          20.0    90.0    110.0    82
Financing Plan:  The proposed IDA credit of US$60.0 million would finance
67% of the foreign exchange cost of the project. The
balance of the foreign exchange costs ($30 million) would be
met by loans from the Netherlands, the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development, and the OPEC Special Fund. The
local costs would be met through annual budgetary allocations
to the Ministry of Water Conservancy. The terms of the
non-IDA financing would be as follows:
Service Grace Repayment
Amount  Interest  charge   period  period
($ million)
Netherlands        10.0      2-1/2%              8 yrs   30 yrs
Kuwait Fund        10.0      ------- to be determined -------
OPEC Special Fund 10.0         -      3/4 of 1%  5 yrs   20 yrs
Estimated            Bank FY         1979    1980    1981    1982    1983   1984
Disbursements:                    ---------------- US$ million… -
Annual         34.0    10.5      6.5      5.0     3.0    1.0
Cumulative    34.0    44.5    51.0    56.0    59.0   60.0
Rate of Return: 17%
Staff Appraisal
Report          No.1987-VN dated July 17, 1978



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF VIET NAM FOR THE DAU TIENG IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to US$60.0 million on standard IDA terms to
help finance the proposed Dau Tieng Irrigation Project. The Netherlands, the
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, and the OPEC Special Fund have
agreed to consider providing $10 million each towards the cost of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        In July 1976 the Democratic Republic of Viet Nam and the Republic
of South Viet Nam united into one country, the Socialist Republic of Viet
Nam. In September of 1976 the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam assumed the
Republic of South Viet Nam's membership in the International Monetary Fund,
the World Bank and IDA. An economic mission visited Viet Nam in January!
February 1977 and its report, "The Socialist Republic of Viet Nam: An
Introductory Economic Report" (No. 1718-VN) dated August 12, 1977, was
distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1977. The Country Data
Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        With roughly 50 million people, the northern and southern parts of
Viet Nam, roughly of equal size, form the fourth largest country in eastern
Asia.  Its size and shape, combined with the varied topography, give
Viet Nam a wide range of climatic conditions, and the long coastline provides
excellent natural harbors and access to extensive marine resources. There
are also substantial natural resources especially cultivable land, good
soils, minerals, including coal and possibly oil and gas. Viet Nam also has
hydroelectric potential and good timber resources. These natural assets
combined with a literate and well organized population give the country a
considerable development potential.
4.        In the near future, however, the country will have to cope with the
aftermath of 30 years of almost continuous warfare. The war left Viet Nam'
with immense and diverse problems. In the north, the impact was considerable
in terms of widespread physical destruction and damage, particularly to
infrastructure. In the transport sector, for example, all the main bridges
and railroad stations were put out of action. The main power stations and
industrial centers were extensively damaged, and 12 cities and 51 townships
were totally destroyed. Apart from the destruction and the loss of life, it
was necessary during the war to divide industry into small-scale units and
relocate them away from centers of population regardless of efficiency
considerations. War time exigencies did not permit the normal evolution of
a productive structure geared to longer-term development needs and to
raising the population's standard of living.



-2 -
5.        In the south, the physical destruction of urban and transport infra-
structure was much less, but there was considerable destruction of agricultural
assets, and a large backlog of deferred maintenance of rural infrastructure
has accumulated. While the south was traditionally the agricultural heartland,
the destruction during the war has made it into a food deficit area. The agri-
cultural export sector was also adversely affected, especially the rubber
plantations which have suffered severely from the destruction of trees
and defoliation and now require considerable rehabilitation and replanting.
Damage was also inflicted on the forestry sector, with destruction or severe
damage to about 5 million ha of forests and half of the forest industries.
This damage has also led to soil erosion and affected the forests' vital
function of regulating stream flows.
6.        Perhaps the greatest effect of the war in the south was the disturb-
ance to agricultural production resulting from widespread involuntary movements
of population within the rural areas and to the main urban centers. As the
level of commodity output per capita fell steadily, the growing population
in urban areas were fed and, to some extent, employed through foreign inflows
that financed the vast increase in imports. An industrial structure developed
but it produced mainly consumer and light capital goods on the basis of
imported raw materials. The result was an economy enjoying a higher standard
of living than could be sustained on the basis of domestic output and the
country's normal ability to import. Immediately before the end of the war in
1975, 40% of the southern population were living in urban centers, with half
the labor force engaged in the service sector, including a quarter in war-
related and public administration activities. The war also caused widespread
social problems in the south.
7.        Since the war, impressive progress has been made in reconstruction,
mainly of infrastructure such as transport and irrigation facilities. A
large number of refugees have been resettled and urban unemployment has been
significantly reduced although the number of unemployed in urban centers,
such as Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon), remains very large and represents
a serious economic and social problem. The worst possibilities of famine and
extreme hardship in the second half of 1975 and early 1976 were avoided, in
part through external assistance, but shortage of food supplies continues to
be a major problem. Unusually cold temperatures in the north during the
winter of 1976-77, severe drought, typhoons and in some areas severe flooding,
resulted in a decline in grain production from 13.7 million tons in 1976 to
about 13 million tons in 1977. This shortfall in production has exacerbated
Viet Nam's critical food situation, requiring cereal imports of about 1.5 mil-
lion tons and diversion of resources away from the reconstruction efforts.
Viet Nam's GNP recovered sharply in 1976 from the low base of 1975 but the
growth rate in 1977 fell slightly below the population growth rate of 2.5%
largely because of the decline in agricultural output. Per capita income in
1977 is estimated to be D 403, equivalent to about US$160 at the official
exchange rate./1
Development Objectives
8.        The Government's development objectives are articulated in its
Second Five-Year Development Plan which covers the period 1976-80. The
/1  At current market prices calculated by the same conversion method as the
World Bank Atlas, the per capita income is $170.



- 3 -
general aims of the Second Five Year Plan are: (a) to meet the immediate
needs of reconstruction and rehabilitation, (b) to build the economic and
social infrastructure for sustained and rapid long-term growth, and (c) to
improve the material and cultural life of the working population. The clear
priority of the Government's development program is agricultural development
to meet the population's basic food requirements, and to provide raw materials
for industries and for export.
9.        High priority is also given to the development of forestry, fisheries
and consumer goods industries, both to improve the population's standard of
living and for export. Industrial development is viewed primarily as a means
of supporting agricultural development and will be based to the extent
possible on domestic raw materials. The main objectives in the north are the
continued reconstruction and modernization of industrial installations;
acceleration of the exploitation of coal and other minerals; and development
of industrial capacity to supply intermediate and capital goods needed by
industries in the south. The main objectives in the south are the rehabili-
tation and expansion of light and consumer goods industries; development of
regional industries in rural areas; and development of export-oriented
industries and industries based on agricultural products. Special emphasis
will be given during the Plan period to exploration for oil and gas in both
the north and the south. The Government has also adopted a foreign investment
code to encourage private capital flows. The investment code provides for
joint ventures between foreign investors and Viet Namese state economic
organizations or 100% foreign ownership in special cases. A major objective
of the Government is to diversify Viet Nam's trade and economic relations.
10.       In infrastructure, special attention will be devoted to transport
and communication links between the north and south, and between the coastal
areas and the highlands, with priority given to development of coastal sea
transport, railways, rural and mountain roads, and roads serving new agricul-
tural areas. In the power sector, the immediate tasks are the reconstruction
and rehabilitation of plants destroyed or damaged during the war, expansion
of generating capacity, and reorientation of generating and distribution
capacities in the south towards the rural areas, especially in irrigated areas.
11.       The main objective of Viet Nam's social policy is to provide the
minimum basic needs to all the population. Pricing policies are used to
bring essential goods within reach of the whole population and to restrict
nonessential consumption. Basic food items such as rice are rationed and
sold at low prices; medical services and education are made available free
of charge or at low cost. Industrial consumer goods, however, are scarce
and available only at relatively high prices. Expansion of educational and
health facilities will be concentrated in the south where existing services
are less developed. In addition, the Government plans to carry out extensive
educational reforms throughout the country to combine education with social
development, incorporate technical education into the general curriculum and
develop work-study programs. Housing will be an important component of the
Government's effort to improve the population's standard of living; large
housing construction programs, in particular, are planned for cities and
industrial areas in the northern provinces.



- 4 -
12.       The Government regards the redeployment of the labor force towards
the production of commodities as an urgent task during the current Five-Year
Plan period.  Because the numbers involved are so enormous - at least 1-2
million workers are still unemployed in the southern cities - industries
cannot possibly provide the necessary employment opportunities in the short
term. The Government, therefore, sees the immediate solution to be a large
resettlement program in the rural areas; the core of this program is the
establishment of New Economic Zones. Although the main objective is the
resettlement of the unemployed from the urban centers in the south, resettle-
ment from overpopulated northern provinces to underpopulated areas is also an
important part of the program.
13.       In the last few years, the Government has also introduced wide-ranging
reforms of management practice in state enterprises to make it easier to carry
out the Plan in a balanced and realistic fashion, to ensure that the main
policies and orientation of economic policy are carried out, and to enhance
the scientific and technical aspects of the Plan. Some of the more important
changes that have been, or are being, implemented include: (i) organizing
each enterprise as a legal entity with the right to take the initiative in
production and business operations; (ii) the use of profit as one of the main
indicators of an enterprise's achievements and efficiency; (iii) the reform
of the price system so that prices paid to each enterprise more accurately
reflect production costs and quality; and (iv) the introduction of interest
charges on capital for state enterprises; and (v) the supplying of more
capital as loans and credits from the banking system rather than as grants
allocated from the state budget. Interest rate policy is currently under
review with the objective of using interest rate more as an instrument of
allocating investment resources, and prices for agricultural commodities were
recently raised to provide greater incentives to agricultural production. A
common currency was introduced throughout the country in May 1978. Previously
different currencies were used in the north and the south.
Development Constraints
14.       The Plan's fundamental development objectives clearly aim at
building a base for sustained and rapid long-term growth, as well as signifi-
cantly improving the basic needs of all the people. Serious constraints to
the economy's growth remain, however, and will not be easy to overcome. The
divergent development of the two halves of the economy over the past 30 years
poses a number of serious problems.  Integration of economic infrastructure,
especially the transport and power systems, will require substantial invest-
ment. The Government recognizes that the restructuring of the southern
economy into a socialist system is a difficult and complex job that cannot be
completed in a short time. For some time, therefore, the present mixed
economic system in the south will continue to exist. Since reunification in
1976, the Government has taken over the major industrial enterprises, external
and wholesale trade, and, in early 1978, a large portion of retail trade.
Socialization of agriculture is proceeding gradually through the organization
of pilot cooperatives in selected districts; however, the bulk of agricultural
production remains in the hands of private smallholders.



- 5 -
15.       The concurrent tasks of rehabilitating the economy, building the
base for longer-term development and integrating the northern and southern
economies will place a heavy burden on the country's planning and managerial
capability. The far-reaching reforms now underway in the north will, to a
large extent, determine the country's future planning and management capability,
but many important issues remain unresolved. In the south, the country has
lost some of its higher level manpower and the effective supply of management
and technical skills in the immediate future will depend largely on the
success of the Government's effort to integrate those managers and technicians
trained and brought up under a different social and economic system into the
new society.
16.       The ambitious investment program of the Government's Five-Year Plan
will require a considerable effort to mobilize both domestic and external
resources. In 1976 and 1977, the first two years of the Plan, total investment
in the economy was about 19% of national income. External grants and credits
averaging an equivalent of about $850 million per year, accounted for about
half of investment expenditure. National savings was maintained at close to
10% of national income, a considerable achievement in light of the country's
low level of per capita income.
17.       A significant proportion of investment for the remaining period of
the Five-Year Plan will continue to require financing through external
assistance. As a result of (i) Government policy to promote exports and (ii)
favorable external market conditions for the country's major products (coal,
rubber, fisheries), export earnings rose, from the small base in 1975, by
about 60% in both 1976 and 1977, but remained in 1977 at less than 40% of
import payments. Although the Government is giving clear priority to
production for export, imports are likely to continue to grow in line with
the country's need for capital equipment, raw materials and spare parts for
the reconstruction and development efforts. Hence the country's external
capital requirement is unlikely to decline in the near future. In the
Government's Budget for 1978, foreign grants and credits are projected to
total an equivalent of about $1,100 million, representing 43% of planned
investment expenditure. Capital inflows of the same order of magnitude in
1979 and 1980 will be needed to maintain the reconstruction and development
momentum. In light of recent developments it is uncertain whether Viet Nam
will be able to obtain external assistance from its traditional donors
(mainly socialist countries) commensurate with past levels, and substantial
shortfalls may occur.
19.       In addition to these traditional sources of aid, Viet Nam will need
increased assistance from other bilateral as well as international sources.
To this end Viet Nam is seeking to broaden its economic relations with the
international community. The United Nations Secretariat recently organized a
meeting among the UN agencies on reconstruction aid to Viet Nam and also
invited all member states to participate. While this meeting was not intended
as a pledging session, several countries stated their intention to support
Viet Nam's rehabilitation/development program. In addition, Viet Nam is
obtaining support from several UN agncies including UNDP, FAO, UNICEF, UNFPA
and UNHFR and is looking to other UN agencies and international organizations
for a share of their resources appropriate to its size of population and low
levels of per capita income. Viet Nam has made serious efforts to settle the



- 6 -
outstanding debt of the former Government of South Viet Nam and satisfactory
progress has been made. Negotiations with France and Japan have recently
been successfully concluded and aid programs agreed in principle. Although
no settlement has been reached with the Federal Republic of Germany, the
German Government has established full diplomatic relations with Viet Nam and
commercial relations are developing between the two countries. Negotiations
have been held from time to time between the United States and Viet Nam on
the overall relationship between the two countries but no settlement has been
reached yet. At the time of political unification in July 1976, Viet Nam had
no outstanding debt to the socialist countries.  External assistance from
these countries had been provided mainly as grants, and the small amount of
debt outstanding was written off.
20.        To support its balance of payments, Viet Nam made a compensatory
financing purchase of $36 million from the IMF in January 1977, and a purchase
of about $60 million in the first credit tranche and the trust fund in June/
July 1978. At the end of March 1978, the country's gross external resources
amounted to only $128 million (excluding about $90 million of blocked reserves),
equivalent to slightly over one month of imports in 1977. Given the country's
commitment to reconstruction and economic development, and its impressive
performance in mobilizing domestic resources for this purpose, its low level
of per capita income, and its limited ability to service external debt for
the next several years, all Bank Group assistance to Viet Nam should be
provided on IDA terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN VIET NAM
21.        The proposed development credit would be the first to Viet Nam.
Since the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam assumed membership in the Bank
Group, several missions have visited the country to gain an understanding of
the economy and its sectors. These first contacts have brought out the
Government's concern with the efficient utilization of the country's
resources, its readiness to draw upon the Bank Group's experience with
development problems in other member countries, and its strong interests in
diversifying and strengthening economic relations with the international
community. The Government, however, has only limited experience in working
with international organizations such as the Bank Group and it may take some
time to build a working relationship which will enable IDA staff to undertake
a broadly based program of assistance to Viet Nam.  In the early stages of
the Bank Group's relationship, it is likely that assistance will be sought
primarily on project-related matters, particularly technical advice on
project formulation and preparation.  However, as the Bank Group's program
develops and contacts with the Government broaden and the Government gains a
better understanding of IDA operations and policies, there will be increasing
opportunities for IDA staff to engage in a dialogue on development issues.
In this connection arrangements have been completed with the Government to
continue the Bank Group's economic work in Viet Nam and an economic mission
is scheduled to visit Viet Nam in October 1978 to update the analysis of the
economy, to review priority needs in the transport sector, and to study
government policies and programs in education, training, employment and
health.



- 7 -
22.      The objective of IDA lending is to support Viet Nam's program to
achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains, to assist in the reconstruction of
the economic infrastructure needed for sustained growth and for the rehabili-
tation and expansion of industrial capacity to meet basic consumption needs
of the population, and to earn much needed foreign exchange. Also, through
its lending operations, IDA will be able to make available appropriate
technologies from Bank Group member countries in support of the Government's
efforts to modernize the economy and provide technical assistance in project
preparation where needed.
23.       In furtherance of these objectives, the Government has requested
IDA assistance for projects in irrigation, coal mining, railways, industry
and energy. These proposed projects accord well with the Bank Group's
assessment of Viet Nam's priority needs. The proposed irrigation project will
increase the country's food production capacity by substantially increasing
the area under cultivation. This project, requiring substantial capital
equipment, would complement the Government's ongoing program to rehabilitate
existing hydraulic works and small irrigation schemes; this program is being
supported by the World Food Program and other agencies including non-govern
mental organizations such as Church World Service of United States. The
industry project under preparation will rehabilitate and increase capacity
utilization of industries in southern Viet Nam producing basic consumer goods
such as clothing and processed foods. It will support the Government's
program to increase the supply of basic commodities to the rural areas both
to improve the standard of living and to provide incentives for farmers to
increase their surplus production. The coal mining project is aimed at
increasing production capacity of one of the country's major export industries;
it will also make available mining technologies which have hitherto not been
available to Viet Nam. The project to rehabilitate and expand the railway
workshop near Ho Chi Minh City will assist the country in the repair and
modernization of its transport system while the power project will provide
additional electric generating capacity that is required to support
increased economic activity, such as pump irrigation schemes and processing
of agricultural commodities. Somewhat further ahead the Bank Group envisages
providing additional help for irrigation development and transport rehabili-
tation, support for the Government's extensive reafforestation program, and
assistance for industrial crops and a wide range of agricultural production
activities through the provision of agricultural credit.  The proposed Dau
Tieng Irrigation project, the coal mining, power and railway workshop projects
will all have large equipment components to be imported early in the project
implementation schedules, and IDA credits for these projects as well as the
industrial rehabilitation project are likely to be quick-disbursing.
24.       The Bank Group assistance envisaged is limited in relation to
Viet Nam's reconstruction and development needs but is important as it gives
Viet Nam access to convertible foreign exchange and thus widens its options
for the selection of machinery and equipment and related technology. At the
same time the Bank Group will encourage extensive cofinancing to mobilize
additional funds from aid agencies, other international agencies as well as
export credit agencies. IDA will continue to cooperate closely with the UN
agencies and other agencies providing assistance to Viet Nam. Viet Nam is a
member of the IFC but no investments have yet been made.



-8-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Agricultural and Rural Sector
25.       Agriculture is by far the most important economic sector in Viet
Nam. It is estimated that about 70% of the population earns its income
from agriculture, which constitutes about 40% of the national income.  In
addition, it is the main source of raw materials for the processing indus-
tries, and a major contributor to exports. While the north has concentrated
on mining and manufacturing, the south has traditionally been the agricul-
tural heartland of Viet Nam, accounting for more than half the cultivated
land and paddy production and all the area under rubber, formerly the coun-
try's largest export. However, three decades of almost continuous warfare
seriously damaged the agricultural sector through the destruction and neglect
of irrigation and drainage infrastructure, the loss of draft animals, des-
truction of equipment, defoliation of vast areas of forests, and, above all,
the displacement of population and abandonment of agricultural land.
26.       While the country's geography and natural conditions favor agricul-
ture, there are many constraints to the expansion of production. Potential
arable land amounts to 9-10 million ha, but only 5.6 million ha are cul-
tivated at present. With double cropping the total cropped area is about
8.3 million ha, or only 0.17 ha per capita, which is among the lowest in the
world. Factors limiting the expansion of production include the shortage of
heavy equipment for land clearing, for constructing and maintaining irriga-
tion and drainage systems and salinity control works; the shortage of
inputs, such as high-yielding rice varieties, fertilizers and agrochemicals;
and the short supply of consumer goods, which is proving to be a disincentive
for farmers and cooperatives to grow more than their own needs.
27.       The supply of rice, the basic food, is the Government's foremost
concern. The north was traditionally a food deficit area, despite well
developed water control systems, the prevalence of double cropping and high
yields. The south, which became a net importer during the war, has
considerable potential to expand area, yields and output and resume its
former role as a rice-exporting region. Apart from rice, the agricultural
sector also produces a wide variety of food and commercial crops such as
corn, rubber, tea, coffee and jute. Rubber, previously an important export
crop, suffered badly during the war and requires extensive rehabilitation.
The same applies to Viet Nam's fisheries, which supply the second most
important item of the diet and also contribute to exports. The output of
the forest industry was also much reduced by wartime disruption and damage,
and it is difficult to expand it quickly because of shortage of equipment
and transport facilities.
28.       Planning, Objectives and Strategy.  The framework for economic
policy is set out in the Second Five-Year Development Plan (1976-80) (para. 8).
Within this framework, the Plan has the following main objectives for the
agricultural and rural sector:



- 9 -
(a) Foodgrain Self-Sufficiency. The food situation remains a major
preoccupation of the authorities. Despite a substantial increase
in foodgrain output in 1976, there was still a deficit of about one
million tons of rice and 150,000 tons of wheat. Daily rations had
to be reduced and stocks fell below security levels. Plans to
reduce the rice deficit in 1977 were subverted by cold weather in
the north, droughts in the south, floods and typhoon damage,
coupled with a continued shortage of foreign exchange which
limited purchases of fertilizers, pesticides, other agricultural
inputs and equipment. The Government now gives top priority to
increasing rice output, with the intention of achieving self-
sufficiency in grains by 1980. With rising per capita consumption
and a population growing at the rate of about 2.5-3% per year, self-
sufficiency will be difficult to achieve.
(b) Rural Employment. The Government's second major concern is the
need to create productive employment opportunities in rural areas.
The main effort to deal with the employment problem consists of the
creation of New Economic Zones in both the north and the south.
These are agricultural settlements designed to resettle four to
five million people by the end of 1980. However, it is estimated
that in 1977 the Government was able to achieve only one-third of
its target of resettling approximately one million people.
(c) Cooperative Development. In the north, the Government has created
agricultural cooperatives over a number of years. In the south,
private farm ownership is still the rule, although the Government is
now organizing mutual-aid work teams of private farmers (the first
stage of cooperatives) and establishing pilot cooperatives. The
Government appears to be following a cautious approach to its
program of social transformation in agriculture in the south,
and priority is being given instead to increasing production.
(d) Rural Incomes and Incentives. To a large extent, rural incomes are
determined as a matter of policy through a combination of agricul-
tural taxes, production quotas and procurement prices. A progres-
sive agricultural tax is collected from all private farmers with
rates ranging from 8-33% (depending on farm production, area culti-
vated and family size) and averaging 12% of gross production.  To
encourage double cropping, farmers are taxed only on their main
crop, but a tax will be imposed on second crops once double
cropping has become an established practice. Whether the rural
income policy will give farmers an incentive to produce a marketable
surplus will also depend on the availability and price of consumer
goods. The Government is therefore giving priority to the production



- 10 -
of basic consumer goods for rural areas. As an added incentive,
economic contracts in many areas of the south allow farmers to
purchase materials and consumer goods from the Government in
return for products sold to the state.
29.       Irrigation and Rice Production.  Rice is by far the most important
crop, covering about 75% of the cultivated area. In the north, the wet
season crop (July-November) occupies from 1.3 to 1.5 million ha, of which
over 1 million ha are in the Red River Delta. Irrigation facilities have
been developed on 70-80% of the agricultural land in the Delta. The total
area under rice in the south is estimated to be 2.7 million ha, of which
2.1 million are in the Mekong Delta and 0.6 million in the coastal plains.
The main institutions responsible for rice production are:  the Ministry of
Water Conservancy (MWC) for the design, construction, operation and maintenance
of irrigation and drainage facilities; the Ministry of Agriculture for the
provision of research, technical advice to cooperatives and farmers and
supply of inputs through the District Revolutionary Committees; the State
Bank (through its Agricultural Development Bank) for the supply of agricultural
credit; and the Ministry of Food for the marketing, transport, processing and
storage of agricultural products.
30.        In line with its objective to achieve self-sufficiency in grains
by 1980, the Government proposes to develop about one million ha of new
land and to intensify cropping on some two million ha of cultivated land,
part of which is already irrigated. Toward this end, the Government has
begun, with its own funds, the rehabilitation and improvement of existing
irrigation systems in the north, which were damaged or had deteriorated due
to inadequate maintenance during the war years.  It is also constructing
some small- and medium-sized systems with whatever equipment is available.
In the south, where considerable potential to expand rice output exists,
the Government is already rehabilitating irrigation and drainage systems in
the Mekong Delta by mobilizing the underemployed labor force. External
assistance is needed mainly for larger scale projects requiring mechanical
equipment.  The Government is about to start construction of new irrigation
and drainage schemes with ten large dredges purchased from French suppliers,
and is in an advanced stage of negotiation with the Netherlands for another
water control project which would reduce the risk of crop loss on periodically
flooded rainfed crop land.
.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
31.        Studies and investigations for the proposed project were carried
out by the Ministry of Water Conservancy (MWC). The project was appraised in
January 1978, and the credit negotiated in Hanoi from June 20-28, 1978.
The Government delegation was led by Mr. Nguyen Manh Thuy of the State Bank of
Viet Nam.  A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 1987-VN dated July 17, 1978) is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately; a credit and project
summary is presented at the beginning of this report and supplementary data,
in Annex III.



The Project Area
32.       The proposed project is located in the southwestern part of Viet
Nam (Map 13513). The 42,000 ha project area includes five of the southern
districts of Tay Ninh Province. The project area's climate is tropical and
monsoonal. It is virtually typhoon-free, but the six-month wet season from
June through November produces about 80% of the 1,760 mm mean annual rainfall.
About 80% of the soils in the project area is ideally suited for paddy culti-
vation, and the remaining 20% for a variety of upland food crops, including
groundnut, maize, cassava and beans. Irrigation development in the project
area, which is essential for dry-season crop production, is currently limited.
The population in the project area is about 170,000 (140/sq km). The people
live in villages consisting of 1,000-1,200 families, of whom the majority are
small farmers. Agricultural land is privately owned. There are presently
about 21,000 farm units in the project area, and the average farm size is
approximately 2.0 ha. The project area is served by Ho Chi Minh City (Saigon)
port, Tan Son Nhut airport, and a network of roads which is generally in fair
condition. Only minor improvements would be required to make most of the
roads suitable for all-weather use, but the last 15 km leading to the dam
site, which were built to lower standards, would require considerably more
repairs and improvement than other roads to facilitate the delivery of equip-
ment, materials and supplies. The Government is currently improving the
roads, and assurances were obtained that the access road to the dam site
would be ready for all-weather use by December 1978 (Section 3.03 of Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
Project Description
33.       The proposed project would include construction of an earth dam on
the Saigon River at Dau Tieng village and a gravity irrigation system for
about 42,000 ha of currently rainfed land, including an adequate drainage
network, inspection and access roads and pumping stations to serve about
4,000 ha within the 42,000 ha service area. The project also makes provision
for the procurement of construction and operation and maintenance equipment,
materials and supplies; services of experts for the dam review panel; and
training of MWC personnel. The irrigation system to be constructed under the
project would deliver water down to 10-20 ha units. Below these units, in
accordance with usual practices, farmers would construct the farm ditches
needed to ensure timely delivery of water to their fields with a minimal
amount of field-to-field. The reservoir created by the dam would displace
some 500 families. Their homes would be relocated in the project area and
the farmers given comparable land to cultivate.
34.       The proposed project would involve the use of an international
waterway. The headwaters of the Saigon River, on which the dam would be built,
partly originate from approximately 20% of the catchment area that lies within
Cambodian territory. This portion of the catchment is drained by 15 small
streams which join the main stream farther downstream, well within Viet Namese
territory. Since the discharges of these streams are small and their potential
service areas too hilly and sparsely populated, it is highly unlikely that
Cambodia would divert them for irrigation. Nevertheless, should Cambodia



- 12 -
decide to divert all these streams in the future, the reduction in the
project's water supply would be minimal (about 6%) and would hardly affect
the project's success. For its part the Viet Namese Government has carried
out sufficient studies and investigations to ensure that the reservoir
created by the dam would not encroach on, or adversely affect, any part of
Cambodia.
Organization and Management
35.       The Ministry of Water Conservancy (MWC), which is responsible for
the rehabilitation and development of irrigation and drainage schemes in Viet
Nam, would implement the project. MWC was created in 1958 to cope with the
Government's program of accelerated irrigation development. It is organized
along functional lines into departments, bureaus, sections and working
groups, which are centralized in Hanoi. Its local offices in the provincial
capitals report to the Minister through the respective Department Directors
and Vice Ministers. The present organization is not only capable of handling
the usual functions associated with administration, long-range planning,
investigation, detailed design and construction supervision of irrigation
projects; it is also geared to train and turn out engineering graduates;
fabricate gates, pumps and some spare parts; repair and rebuild equipment;
and construct medium and large irrigation projects with hardly any outside
assistance. Since its creation in 1958, MWC has completed medium-sized and
large irrigation and drainage schemes covering more than 500,000 ha. After
the war, it has engaged in extensive rehabilitation of damaged irrigation
systems and has started the construction of new medium-sized irrigation and
drainage schemes with its available resources and equipment. Its offices in
Hanoi are currently staffed by more than 1,000 engineers, and its 36 local
offices are each manned by 30-100 engineers, many with 10-20 years experience
in the design and construction of irrigation and drainage works. The staff
of IMWC should thus have no difficulty in implementing the proposed project.
36.       Overall responsibility for the project would rest with the Project
Manager, a senior official in the MWC, to be appointed by March 1, 1979. He
would report directly to the Ministry's Vice Minister in charge of the Design
and Construction Departments. Responsibility for the planning and design
phases of the proposed project would rest with MWC's Design Department, which
established a Special Project Office in Ho Chi Minh City to prepare the
project for appraisal. This Office is headed by one of the Design Department's
Deputy Directors from Hanoi, who has been designated as concurrent Project
Director Design. The Design Department has also appointed a Deputy Project
Director for the dam and a second Deputy Project Director for the irrigation
service area. MWC's Design Department, through the Special Project Office in
Ho Chi Minh City, would carry out the final design of all civil works. MWC's
Hydraulic Mechanical Workshops Department would design and fabricate all gates
for the spillway, sluice and irrigation structures. One of MWC's ten hydraulic
works companies (Hydraulic Works Company No. 9) would undertake all civil
works construction and gate installation. This Company has had extensive
experience in the construction of dams, levees and irrigation systems;
however, to cope with the construction of a large part of MWC's projects in
the south, it has progressively augmented its staff by employing experienced



- 13 -
equipment operators and maintenance personnel. MWC's Construction Department
has set up a Construction Committee headed by a Project Director - Construction
to supervise the work of the Hydraulic Works Company and to control construc-
tion quality. To assist MWC in controlling construction quality and in ensur-
ing the safety of the dam, assurances were obtained that, by December 1978,
the Government would appoint a panel of experts consisting of a geologist, a
hydraulic engineer and a dam design and construction engineer whose qualifica-
tions would be submitted to IDA for review, and whose responsibilities would
be to review construction quality and progress and recommend a suitable
maintenance and safety program (Section 3.06 of Development Credit Agreement).
Training
37.       To further strengthen the MWC staff in coping with the workload
that is expected to arise from the projected accelerated development in the
irrigation sector, training programs would be set up for planning, design
and construction engineers. The training of MWC personnel would require
about 50 man-months of expatriate services at a cost of $6,000 per man-
month. Assurances were obtained that training supervisors would be engaged
within three months after the delivery of the first lot of construction
equipment and that the Government would furnish to the Association for its
comments the overseas training program for MWC planning and design engineers
(Section 3.02 of Development Credit Agreement).
Dam Maintenance and Safety Inspection
38.       The proposed dam would have a maximum height of 27 m above the
stream bed, would create a reservoir with a gross storage volume of 1,450 MCM
and would be so situated that it could not be destructive in the unlikely
event of failure. To preclude progressive deterioration that could lead to
such failure, assurances were obtained that the Government would submit to
IDA for its review not later than December 31, 1981 a proposed dam inspection
program, together with the timetable for its implementation (Section 4.02
(b) of Development Credit Agreement).
Agricultural Supporting Services
39.       Since the project area is in a zone where intensive military
operations took place during the war, farmers in the area had been without any
form of agricultural supporting services for many years. With the return
of peace the Government has started to address these needs, but the provi-
sion of extension services and supply of inputs still remain inadequate.
Notwithstanding these constraints, farmers in the project area have been able
to resume reasonable production in a relatively short time. An expanded
program of agricultural supporting services has to be set up in the area
during the construction period to enable the farmers to realize the benefits
of improved irrigation and drainage. Assurances were obtained that, not
later than December 31, 1979, the Government would prepare and submit to IDA
for its review a detailed and comprehensive program for agricultural support-
ing services in the project area along with a timetable for implementing the
program. The Government will also inform the Association of the progress of
implementation of this program (Section 3.09 of Development Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
40.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), which is responsible for
research, would utilize its research facilities at the Can Tho Experiment
Station in the Mekong Delta to cover the project area. This station, which
would serve as the regional research center for rice and food crops, would
be upgraded and strengthened under a forthcoming technical assistance
package from the United Nations Development Program.
41.       The Agricultural Development Bank, a subsidiary of the State Bank,
provides short- and long-term credit to cooperatives in the north and to
private farmers in the south. This Bank, which has a branch in each district-
in the project area, would provide credit to the farmers at standard rates.
The interest rate on short-term credit, which is mainly for seeds, fertilizers
and agrochemicals, is 0.36% per month. To be eligible for short-term
credit, the cooperative or farmer applying for the credit must have an
approved agricultural development plan and a program for the utilization of
the funds. In 1977 the short-term credit amounted to about D1.25 million
(US$0.5 million) for Tay Ninh Province. The repayment rate on short-term
credit is about 97% and on long-term credit it is also very high. Long-term
credit is available for irrigation development, soil improvement, buildings
and the purchase of farm equipment and draft animals. The interest rate is
0.21% per month, and the repayment period is three years for draft animals
and ten years or more for plantation crops. The Agricultural Development
Bank grants long-term credit on the basis of its assessment of the technical
feasibility and economic viability of the proposed agricultural development
plan. Although the nominal interest rates on agricultural credit appear low,
in the case of Viet Nam, they also proximate real interest rates in view of
the Government's extensive role in determining prices of most commodities and
thereby controlling domestic price inflation. There is no evidence that this
system leads to inefficient resource allocation. The provision of credit in
the project area would be included in the Government's program for agricultural
supporting services (para. 39).
Project Cost and Financing
42.       The estimated project cost is US$110 million, of which US$90 mil-
lion (82%) would be in foreign exchange. The unusually high percentage
of foreign exchange is largely due to the projected importation of virtually
all equipment, materials and supplies, combined with the low local currency
requirement of the project because of the low wage rates in Viet Nam, the
minimal land acquisition costs for reservoir and canal rights-of-way and the
low overhead of MWC agencies that would implement the project. Cost estimates
include allowances for physical and price contingencies.
43.       The proposed credit of $60.0 million would finance 67% of the
foreign exchange costs. Loans from the Netherlands, the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development and the OPEC Special Fund would meet the balance of the
foreign exchange cost and the Government, the local costs. The Netherlands
loan of US$10 million equivalent would finance the purchase of various vehicles,
construction equipment and spare parts while the OPEC and Kuwait Fund loans
(US$10 million each) would be applied toward the cost of fuel, lubricants,
steel, and materials for hoists and gates jointly with the Association. It is
expected that Kuwait Fund will administer the OPEC Fund loan.



- 15 -
Procurement
44.       Except as indicated below, all equipment, materials and supplies to
be financed by the proposed credit would be procured following international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. In line with
the Government's normal practice, all civil works for the dam and irrigation
system would be constructed by force account by one of MWC's ten hydraulic
works companies (para. 36), using equipment and materials supplied to it by
the Government. This procedure would also permit project works to be built
with the least possible delay, at a cost of about 30-40% lower than that
possible were these works to be constructed by foreign contractors. All
imported equipment, materials and supplies would be delivered through the
port at Ho Chi Minh City, which has adequate capacity to handle this cargo.
Spare parts would be procured through prudent shopping procedures or through
negotiated purchase from suppliers of equipment. Fuel would be procured in
accordance with the Government's normal procedures on a yearly basis in
accordance with the requirements of the project.
45.       Tender documents for the supply of construction and operation and
maintenance equipment (US$27 million) have been prepared and issued and
contracts would be awarded after Board presentation. A large number of
small items costing less than US$10,000 each and limited to a total of
US$3.0 million, for which bidding documents would be too cumbersome to
prepare, would be purchased through prudent shopping in the international
market. Contracts for the purchase of fuel, cement, sheet piles, and
tires would be spread over the implementation period to keep their supply in
line with requirements. These items would be delivered directly to the site
or to MWC's warehouses. Assurances were obtained that MWC would provide
adequate facilities for the storage and protection of equipment, materials
and supplies procured under the project (Section 3.05 of Development Credit
Agreement).
Disbursements
46.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the foreign
exchange cost of training and directly imported vehicles and equipment
to be financed by IDA and 50% of materials and supplies with the balance
being financed by Kuwait Fund and OPEC Special Fund. Disbursements are
expected to be completed by December 31, 1984, about one year after the
scheduled completion of project works. It would be a condition of disburse-
ment of the IDA credit for materials and supplies that the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement has become effective or that the Government has made other arrange-
ments, satisfactory to IDA, to secure an equivalent amount of financing.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
47.       Operation and maintenance of the completed project works would be
turned over to MWC's Irrigation and Drainage Department, which would assign
responsibility for the project to one of the O&M companies from its local
hydraulic office in Tay Ninh.  The Irrigation and Drainage Department would
assess water charges from the project beneficiaries; the Agricultural
Development Bank would collect them. Current levels of water charges on



- 16 -
irrigated land in the north range from D 80-100 (US$32-40)/ha. Of this
amount, the Government allocates D 18-30 (US$7.20-12.00)/ha for 0&M.
Although these levels of expenditure for O&M may appear low, irrigation sys-
tems in the north of Viet Nam are well maintained, and water is being distrib-
uted equitably and efficiently. The efficient utilization of water is
largely due to the extensive use of return flows in the drains. Water from
the drains is usually relifted to the paddy fields by means of pumps and
manually operated wicker baskets. The low cost of maintenance can be attrib-
uted to the high element of volunteer labor in the daily wages paid for
weeding and desilting canals.
48.       Viet Nam has a well established system of charges applying to all
irrigation schemes where individual farmers or cooperatives are ensured a
reliable water supply. Government policy is to recover directly or indirectly
from the beneficiaries, without impairing their incentives, all operation and
maintenance costs and as much as practicable of capital costs. This recovery
is carried out directly through the collection of water charges and indirectly
through the agricultural tax. According to the Ministry of Water Conservancy,
collections are nearly always 100% of assessments. Assurances were obtained
that the Government would collect water charges from all beneficiaries of
the irrigation system constructed under the project, at levels consistent
with the capability of the beneficiaries to pay these charges, to cover the
cost of sound O&M services necessary to provide irrigation and drainage to
the area served, and to recover over the useful life of the irrigation
system, a reasonable portion of its capital cost (Section 4.03 of Development
Credit Agreement).
Cost Recovery
49.       For the proposed project, water charges would amount to D 100/ha
for farmers and cooperatives served by the gravity system (38,000 ha) and
D 118/ha for cooperatives served by pumping (4,000 ha). The agricultural tax
was taken as 12% of gross production, payable in kind. Together, direct
charges and agricultural taxes would recover 74% of total costs. Although the
total tax burden on farmers and cooperatives is substantial, it still leaves
the intended beneficiaries with enough material incentive to participate
in the project.
Project Benefits
50.       By providing an assured water supply, irrigation and drainage, the
proposed project would increase cropping intensity, yields and production on
42,000 ha, and provide the basis for development of an additional 30,000 ha
in the Stage II area when financial resources permit. It would directly
benefit some 21,000 farm families or approximately 120,000 people. The
project would support the Government's policies to attain self-sufficiency in
food grains, to create productive rural employment opportunities, and to
raise rural incomes. The annual incremental production of paddy (160,000
tons) and groundnut (38,000 tons) at full project development would result in
net annual foreign exchange savings and earnings of about $40 million. The
project would generate the demand for 6.3 million man-days of agricultural



- 17 -
labor, or the equivalent of some 26,000 year-round jobs and help relieve the
severe unemployment problem in the south. The project's cost of $2,400/ha and
$4,800 per beneficiary family, excluding costs due to expected price increases,
is comparable to the cost of other recent Bank Group-assisted irrigation and
drainage projects in the East Asia and Pacific Region.
51.       The project's economic rate of return would be 17%, using a
40-year evaluation period with full project benefits being attained by 1988,
six years after completion of all project works.  The economic rate of return
showed most sensitivity to the assumptions made about future yields and world
market prices of paddy and groundnut.  If yields are reduced by 24% and if
actual prices are more than 38% below the commodity prices forecast over the
life of the project, the rate of return would fall to 10%. The economic
results showed little sensitivity to the assumptions made about development
period, cropping intensity, construction costs, exchange rate or wage rate.
Risks
52.       Given MWC's experience with projects of similar scope and complexity,
no organization, management or implementation problems are expected. One
risk concerns the organization of agricultural enterprises in the project
area. The Government may initially encounter some obstacles when it starts
to form cooperatives (para. 28 (c)) and this could delay the development period
or reduce yields slightly. The sensitivity analysis shows, however, that such
changes are unlikely to affect the economic viability of the project.
53.       The Viet Namese Government has agreed to give IDA staff full access
and cooperation. However, in view of inadequate communication facilities,
shortage of typing and copying equipment, as well as translators; clearances
required for the release of information; and travel within the country being
subject to prior approval by the Government, the Association expects more
than usual supervision problems during project implementation. Although
these constraints may pose some difficulties, the Association is confident
that they would not affect the quality of project implementation.
Environmental Effects
54.       Various parts of Viet Nam have been under irrigation for many years
with no known adverse effects on the environment. In the project area,
physical damage to the environment due to the construction activity would be
minimal and short-lived. Chemical fertilizers and pesticides are already
widely used in irrigated and rainfed areas, and no hazards are anticipated if
care is exercised in their use.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic
of Viet Nam and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 18 -
56.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Annex III.  The
following features of the Agreement are of interest:
(a) An additional condition of effectiveness would be that all the
conditions of effectiveness of the Netherlands Loan Agreement
and of the OPEC Special Fund Loan Agreement (save for the effec-
tiveness of the Credit Agreement) have been fulfilled; and
(b)  an additional condition of disbursement for materials and
supplies would be that the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement has
become effective or that the Government has made arrangements,
satisfactory to the Association, to provide the funds required
from other sources.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
July 26, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3 pages
SOCIALIST REP. OF    TABLE 3A
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  ....jVIET-NAM       - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SOCIALIST REP. OF VIET-NAM                       REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      329.6                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     104.4                        1960       1970   EStIMATE          TANZANIA        PHILIPPINES ROMANIA*
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                        . .                  170.0            100.0/a           230.0        550.0/a
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)              *          . .        50.4             12.9/a            36.9         20.3
POPULATION DENSITY                        ..         ..        153.0             14.0             123.0         85.0
PER SQUARE KM.                                              483.0              26.0             472.0        13E.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)            ..         ..         41.5             50.5              44.2         19.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THDU.AV)              .          .         20.5             23.0              13.2          8.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)                                               160-165/b            81.0         49.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS                                               1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 *-         ..         44.6             41.8              55.6         67.7
3.2               3.3          1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL    G.                                        .,          2.5/a            3.0/a             3.0          1.0
URBAN                                                         -1.0/a            5.6               4.0           3.4
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL              ..         ..         20.1              5.5/b            27.6          40.8
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                          ..         ..        41.0             44.4/b             45.6         25.9
15 TO 64 YEARS                          ..         .         55.2             53.0/b             51.6         65.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                                              3.8              2.67F             2.8          E.6
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      ..         ..          0.8              0.9/a             0.9          0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  ,         .           1.0/1            1. 2/a,           1.5          0.7/b
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            .. .       ..           . .              , .            320.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ,,         ,.           ..               .                2.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)              ..         ..     22900.0           5600.0/a b       12400.0        9900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)            ..         ..         70.0            91./Oa,b           55.0/a       49.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)              ,         ..           ..               ...6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D 8Y-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..        ..            ..            33.5
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               .,        ..            .             63.3              54.0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..            .              2.3                3.6
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                                                      7.8              11.7
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              *          * . ..                                        43.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            .          .            ..               ..               2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULAtION PER PHYSICIAN                  *-         .       1370.0          21570.0/a                         680.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..         ..           *.          419o.o7T          3840.0/b       200.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         ..       290.0            100. 7OT          850.0         140.0/c
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)           ..         ..            *.            88.0              B6.0        11i. .0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                ..         ..                          43.0              45.0          92.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                                                  23.0              22.0          28.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         ..           .,               ..               6.6          2.4
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                                              100.0/c           35.0             114.0         113.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                                         15-20  7f             3.0              50.0          44.
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                                    10-12             13.0              10.0          14.0
VOCAT IONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                                            14.0 
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                                        87.0                 -                           5 .0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..           . .              ..                . .         1.3/d
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                         *-        *-            *-            30.0/b,d           76.0         88.0/d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..         ..            ..               ..             23.0          49.0/d
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         ..           ..               ..               7.0         27.0/d
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)            *          *         60.0             11.0               72.0        152.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)             .          *-                           3 0               8.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              ..         ..         4.                10a250                      11.
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                                         .6              01/a            235.0       1615.
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE                               -



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971, and for Moat Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1977.
*  Romania has been selected as an objective country for Socialist Rep. of Viet-Nam because its economic system is similar to that of Viet-Nam.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /a  1976-77;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    Ic  Data are for
North Viet-Nam only;    /d  Senior Secondary education.
TANZANIA         1970    /a  Mainland Tanzania;    /b  1967;    /c  1965;    /d  As percentage of urban households.
PHILIPPINES      1970    /a  As percentage of employment;    /b  Government personnel only,
ROMANIA          1970    /a  Not comparable to those for other Centrally Planned Economies.  Derived by using the Bank Atlas methodology, by adjusting
official Romonian National Accounts data and converting them into US dollars at the effective exchange rate for foreign
trade transactions which approximates Lei 20 per US dollar;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total
labor force;    /c  Hospitals only, excludes sanitarian and maternity homes;    /d  1966;    /e  Inside only.
RO, July 14, 1978
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Laud Area (thou km2                                                                            Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of practicing
TotaL - 'rotal surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                              male and female graduate nurses, 'trained' or 'certified" nurses, and
Agnri. - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or perMa-                    auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
neatly for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                       Population per hospital bed - Population  div,ided by number of hospi1 a  beds
avilable in publio and private general1 and specialfeed hospi':al cod
CNP per capita ((IS$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                       rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing homes and establishments for
calculated by none conversion method as World Bank Atlas  (1974-76 basis);                     custodial and preventive care.
19i0; 1970 and 1976 data.                                                                   Per capita supply of calories (7% of requirements) - Cogputed from energy
equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita per day;
PopulaLion aed vital statistics                                                                  avsilable supplies cmprise desestic production, imports less exports, and
Po.laltin (mid-year million) - As of July first:  if not available, average                      changes in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantitics used
of twa ed-year estimates; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data.                                           in food processing and losses in distribution; requirements were estimated
by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity and health consid-
Pjpulation density - per square km - Mid-year population per square kilometer                    sring euvironsental temperatsre, body weights, age and see distribultions of
(100 brct;,res) of total area.                                                                 population, and allowing 107. for waste at household level.
opi'lation density - per square km of agric. land - Computed as shbve for                      Per capita supply of protein (Erams per day) - Protein content of per capita
agriculturol land only.                                                                        net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as above; require-
ments for all countries established by USDA Economic Research Sen-ices
Vital statistics                                                                                 provide for a minimum allowance of 60 gras of total protein per day, and
Crude birth rate per thousand, average - Annual live births per thousand of                      20 gras of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
old-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                     protein; these standards are lower than those of 75 grams of taota  protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate.                                 and 23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by rA!
Crude de.th rate per thousand, average - Anu,l deaths per thousand of mid-year                   in the Third World Food Survey.
popuIlation; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year -voroga ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                                          derived from animals and pulses in grems per day.
ofanLt mortality rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age                Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per tho,,sand live births.                                                                     years, to children in thin age group;  suggented as an  ndi.cator of
lf e   ose2 utncy at birth (yrs) - Average number of years of life remaining at                 malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending ito 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countries.                                                                              Education
C,oss reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will bear                   Adiusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as per-
to her noroal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                      cestage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
ferttility rates; usulIly flve-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                     universal education, enrollment nay emceed 1007 since some pupils are below
Pop,la1tion crowth rate (7) - total - Cnpound annual growth rates of mid-year                    or above the official schnol age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; secondary
populaton growth rate (X) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                           edacation requires at least four years of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of                   prsvides geseral, vocational or teacher training instructions for pupils
data among oustries.                                                                           of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally excluded.
Ulrban fspgl atiom (7 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definition. of urban areas may affect comparability of data among countries,                   schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be partially or
completely excluded.
Age utructure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                   Vocational enrolLment (X of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
aid rctired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population,                         technical, Industrial or other programs which eperate iodependently or as
Age depen,dency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                   departments of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                      Adult literacy rate (%) - literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
Vc:e,cruic dependency ratio - Ratin of population under 15 and 65 and over to                    centage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
Lhu labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Familv plnnina - acesptars (oumulative, thou) - Cumulative number of acuepturs                Housing
of birth-control deoices under auspices of national fanily planning program                 Persons per rom (urban) - Average number of persons per room in occupied
sLnce inception.                                                                              conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellin,gs exclude non-permanent
Fao,ily pla-ning - users (/. of married woen) - Percentages of married wamen of                 structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices ta all married                Occupied dwellings without piped water (7) - Occupied c-nventional dwellings
women il sanme age group.                                                                     in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water facilities
as percentage of all occupied dweIlings.
Omplaynen t                                                                                    Access to electricity (X of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
rutal labur force (thousand) - Economically active persoss, including  rmed                     electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in -rbam and
arores and unamployed but excluding houseviveo, students, etc.; definitions                   rural areas.
it -ariu.-u countries are not comparable.                                                   Rural dwellings connected to electricity (X) - Computed as above for rural
_aber foxcc in agriculture (7.) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, foreafry,                dwellings only.
bu-ting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Urem jyad (X of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persane who                  Consumptlo
are able and willing to take a job, mat of a job en a given day, remained out               Radia receivers (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimasm period not exceeding one                  to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed receivers
seek; may not be coparable between countries due to different definitions                     in countries and in years when registratian of radio sets was in effect;
of uneployed aid s-,rce of data, e.g., employment office atatiatics, sample                   data for recent years may not be cupa-abls since mast countries aboliahed
-,,r-yv., cmapolsory unemployment insuranoc.                                                  licensing.
Passenger cars (per thau pop) - Passenger cars comprtse motor cars seating
Icume distribution - Percentage of private incme (both in cash and kind)                        less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and nilitary
received by richest 5X, richest 20%, poorest 207, and poorest 40X of house-                   vehicles.
holds.                                                                                      Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual cansumptitn of indu-trial, cammercial,
public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, generally
Distrihution. of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by wsItLhiest 107.                  based on productian dsta, without allowance for lesses in grids bat a11ow-
and poorest 10% of land owners.                                                               fng far imports and ecports of electricity.
Newsprtnt (kgi/vr per cap) - Per capita ann',al consumption in kilograms
Scald th_n l Ntritian                                                                           estimated fron domestic production plus -et imports of newsprint.
Pgphltion per physician - Population divided by number of practici.g
physicians qualified irmal a medIcal school at university level.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL INCOME IN 1977                                      ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(% constant prices)
US$ mln.      %                  1976-77
Gross National Income                    8,009       100.0                  2.0
Gross Domestic Investment                1,637       20.4                 14.3
Gross National Savings                      765        9.6                   -
Current Account Balance                   -872      -10.9
Exports of Goods, NFS                       456        5.7                58.3 /1
Imports of Goods, NFS                    1,293        16.1                -2.7 /1
NATIONAL INCOME BY INDUSTRIAL ORIGIN IN 1977
(% of total)
1976     1977
Agriculture                   48.6      40.1
Industry                      24.3      27.6
Construction                    7.1      7.1
Services                      20.0      25.2
Total                   100.0    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(in million of Dongs)   (As % of National_Income)
1976         1977         1976          1977
Domestic Revenue                  6,322       7,235          31.8          35.6
Current Expenditure               5,645       5,950          28.4          29.3
Current Surplus                     677       1,285           3.4           6.3
Capital Expenditure               3,630       4,150          18.2          20.4
External Assistance               2,652       1,965          13.3           9.7
MONEY AND CREDITS                (in millions of D_ngs, end of period)
1976               1977
Net Foreign Assets                      620                 488
Total Credits                         8,850               9,912
Currency in circulation and
Savings Deposits                    2,135              2,250
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-77)
1976     1977
--Us$ Million)--                           US$ Million      _
Exports of Goods, NFS           288       456      Agricultural products        41           11.0
Imports of Goods, NFSL2    1329    1,293          Handicrafts                  57           15.3
Resource Balance          -1,041      -837      Industrial goods            275          73.7
Service Payments, net           -12       -35
Current Account Balance -1,053        -872
Foreign Grants and Credits _ _950    _ 775
Overall Balance /3             -103       -97          Total                   373          100.0
Gross Reserves (end year)/4   251         154
RATE OF EXCHANGE
OFFICIAL TRANSACTIONS                  TOURIST AND INWARD REMITTANCES
For Northern Dong
average during 1976:         U.S. $1.00 = ND 2.80   ND 1.00 = US$0.36    US$1.00 = ND 4.20
average during 1977:         U.S. $1.00 = ND 2.50   ND 1.00 = US$0.40    US$1.00 = ND 3.75
for Unified Dong (introduced in May 1978)
May 1978:                   US$1.00 = D 2.19         D 1.00 = US$0.46       US$1.00 = D 3.29
/1  In current US dollars.
/2  Includes Bank staff estimates of imports directly related to donor financed projects which are
excluded in official balance of payments data.
/3  Equivalent to monetary movements in convertible currencies.
/4  Excluding about $93 million of blocked reserves.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of I page
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN VIET NAM /
1  As this would be the first credit to the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam,
there is nothing to report.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
VIET NAM
DAU TIENG IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 2 years
(b) Project preparation coordinated by Ministry of Water
Conservancy (MWC).
(c) First presented to IDA: June 1977
(d) First mission to consider project: September 1977
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: January 1978
(f) Completion of negotiations: June 1978
(g) Planned credit effectiveness: November 1978
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
(a) Assistance is being provided to the Government in the preparation
of tender documents for the procurement of construction and O&M
equipment under international competitive bidding.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Government to complete upgrading of roads leading to the damsite
for all-weather use by December 1978 (para. 32).
(b) Government to collect water charges from all beneficiaries to
cover cost of sound operation and maintenance services and part of
the capital costs (para. 49).
(c) Government to appoint a panel of experts not later than December 31,
1978 to assist MWC in controlling construction quality and in
ensuring the safety of the dam (paras. 36, 38).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(d) MWC to furnish a training program for the planning and design
engineers and to engage training advisors for construction personnel
within three months after the delivery of the first lot of construc-
tion equipment (para. 37).
(e) Government to implement a suitable maintenance and inspection
program following completion of the dam and to submit to IDA not
later than December 31, 1981 the proposal for carrying out the
program, together with the timetable for its implementation
(para. 38).
(f) Government to prepare and furnish to IDA for review, not later than
December 31, 1979, a detailed and comprehensive program for agri-
cultural supporting services in the project area, together with
the timetable for implementing the program (para. 39).



IBRD 13513R
46>     \iff ow0wof*-4. w /  0 0@  3 S  x,z aAUGUST 1978
0  K
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~',
(      ~~THAILAND, '~~
-, ,''--,  /                         (  ' 
0  3fA3tI StilGttI g >3+ rX30,000 ho 48 ~~~~~~                                            .1-'-
. irtge.X-~~~~/                                            ;              L               Tu  \d\
p&3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Vl --z *AM>L      <\
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( 61 1  T6<
SUGA '-   MCANE PR\JECT                           T                                  1<3R/
1OO,OO -ha                                      /7 /                           o
Stageil               MUK                                 '
42,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
Stage I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 'L
DAt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
STGi:,TGE'6,npMMo



