CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 845 VN
Development Credit Agreement
(Dau Tieng Irrigation Project)
between
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 24, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 845 VN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 24, 1978, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF VIET NAM (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of part of the foreign exchange cost of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands (hereinafter called the Netherlands) a loan (herein-
after called the Netherlands Loan) in an amount equivalent to
about $10,000,000 to assist in financing Part C of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Netherlands Loan Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Netherlands;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Organization
of the Petroleum Exporting Countries Special Fund (hereinafter
called the OPEC Fund) a loan (hereinafter called the OPEC Fund
Loan) in an amount equivalent to about $10,000,000 to assist in
financing Part C of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the OPEC Fund Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the OPEC
Fund;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund)
a loan (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan) in an amount
equivalent to about $10,000,000 to assist in financing Part C of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 commencing January 1, 1989, and ending July 1, 2028,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
July 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, agricultural, administrative and financial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Sp,ction 3.02. (a) Not later than December 31, 1979, or such
other date as the Association shall agree, the Borrower shall fur-
nish to the Association for its review and comments the training
program related to Part D (1) of the Project.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part D
(2) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ training specialists
not later than tlree months after the delivery to the Borrower
of the first lot of equipment procured under the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the access
road to the dam site included in Part B of the Project is upgraded
for all-weather use not later than December 31, 1978.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be


﻿-4-
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that its Ministry of
Water Conservancy provide adequate facilities for the storage and
protection of the equipment, materials, supplies and spare parts
procured under the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1978 or such other date as the Association shall agree,
appoint a panel of experts, consisting of a geologist, a hydraulic
engineer and a dam design and construction engineer, whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be acceptable to the Association; (ii) cause the said panel of
experts to: (A) review construction quality and progress not less
often than every six months, (B) provide advice on the preparation
of a spillway operation manual, and (C) recommend a suitable
maintenance and safety inspection program to be carried out after
completion of the dam; and (iii) consult with the said panel of
experts on any problem arising in the construction of the works
included in the Project and on any change proposed to be made to
the design or construction schedule of such works.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and


﻿-5-
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request. on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire not later than three months before
the commencement of construction, all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operatio, of the facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1979, or such other date as the Association shall agree,
prepare and furnish to the Association for its comments a detailed
and comprehensive program for the provision of agricultural
supporting services in the area to be irrigated under the
Project, including a timetable for implementation of the said
program. The Borrower shall thereafter implement the said pro-
gram and inform the Association of the progress of its imple-
mentation.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall ensure that all its agen-
cies responsible for carrying out the Project are at all times
staffed with suitably qualified and experienced personnel in
adequate numbers and that a suitably qualified and experienced
Project Manager is appointed not later than March 1, 1979, or such
other date as the Association shall agree, to direct the design
and construction activities of the Project. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Association of any appointment made to the
position of Project Manager.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have such records for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors appointed
by the Borrower and acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to
the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said records and the audit thereof as the Associa-
tion shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) The report of audit referred to in paragraph (b) (ii)
(B), above, shall include, inter 3,lia, the auditor's comments
and opinion on the certificates of expenditure submitted to the
Ministry of Water Conservancy by the agency carrying out the civil
works under the Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause all structures,
canals, roads, equipment and other facilities included in the
Project to be adequately operated and maintained and repaired
in accordance with appropriate agricultural, engineering and
financial policies and procedures, and shall provide the funds
for this purpose.
(b) Without any limitation to the obligations of the Bor-
rower under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall
cause the dam and appurtenant works forming Part A of the Project
to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound ingineering
practice in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies
in the condition of such structures, or in the quality or adequacy
of the operation or maintenance of the said dam and works which
may endanger their safety. To this end, the Borrower shall, not


﻿-7-
later than December 31, 1981, furnish to the Association for its
comments, its proposed program for such inspection together with
the proposed timetable for the implementation of such inspection
program.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain
and collect, or cause to be established and thereafter maintained
and collected, charges on irrigable agricultural land, or on the
users of the land, serviced by the irrigation system constructed
under the Project, at levels consistent with the capability
of the beneficiaries to pay said charges, to (i) cover the cost
of sound operation and maintenance necessary to provide irrigation
and drainage for such land, and (ii) recover over the useful
life of the irrigation system a reasonable portion of the capital
expenditures attributable to such system. The Borrower shall
review with the Association the adequacy of such charges at
intervals not to exceed three years.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(a) Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any loan made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement, and


﻿-8-
(ii) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that, the event specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that, all conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the Netherlands Loan Agreement and the OPEC Fund Loan
Agreement (save for the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been
fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date November 22, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director General of the State Bank of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
State Bank of Viet Nam
Hanoi
Socialist Republic of Viet Nam


﻿-9-
Cable address:
VIETBANK
Hanoi
For the Association:
Internationrl Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
By Is/ Cu Dinh Ba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! S. Please
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Vehicles and              31,000,000          100% of foreign
equipment                                    expenditures
(2) Materials and             20,000,000          50% of foreign
supplies                                     expenditures
(3) Training                     500,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Unallocated                8,500,000
TOTAL     60,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 11 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b) in respect of payments made for expenditures under
Category (2) until: (i) the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement has
become effective; or (ii) the Borrower has made arrangements,
satisfactory to the Association, to provide the funds required
to make payments for the expenditures to be financed from the
proceeds of the Kuwait Fund Loan.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, peoceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associa-
tion are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such imount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinioa, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Construction of an earth dam and its appurtenant works on
the Saigon River near the village of Dau Tieng to create a
reservoir  of about one billion cubic meters usable storage
capacity.
Part B:
Construction of a gravity irrigation system to serve about
42,000 ha, including an adequate drainage network, inspection
and access roads and two low-lift pump stations to serve
about 4,000 ha within the said 42,000 ha.
Part C:
Procurement of vehicles, equipment, materials and supplies
for the construction, operation and maintenance of the
Project dam, works and irrigation system.
Part D:
In-service and overseas training for: (1) planning and design
engineers of the Ministry of Water Conservancy; and (2)
construction engineers, heavy equipment operators and mainte-
nance personnel.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procuremkent
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B, goods shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availabil4ty to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Cement, materials for gates, hoists and sheet piles, lubri-
cants and reinforcing steel shall be procured so as to ensure an
adequate supply of such items throughout the construction period.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items of equipment and supplies expected to cost less than
the equivalent of $10,000 may be procured without resort to
international competitive bidding, provided that: (i) such items
shall be procured on a basis of reasonable and competitive pro-
curement procedures; and (ii) the total cost of items procured
pursuant to this paragraph shall not exceed the equivalent of
$3,000,000.
2.    Spare parts required during the construction period shall
be procured through prudent shopping or, when prudent shopping is
not feasible, spare parts shall be procured through negotiated
purchases from the suppliers of the related equipment.


﻿- 14 -
3.   Fuel shall be procured through the Borrower's normal pro-
cedures on a yearly basis in accordance with the requirements of
the Project.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly


﻿- 15 -
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


