Report No. PIC4558
Project Name             Guatemala-Tax Administration Technical Assistance (@
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       GTPA48654
Borrower                         Republic of Guatemala
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Guatemala City, Guatemala
Tel:    502-230-2792
Fax:    502-251-3648
Date PID Prepared                November 15, 1996
Projected Appraisal              June 23, 1997
Projected Board Date             September 16, 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background
Guatemala has the largest economy in Central America, with a 1996
GDP estimated at $15.9 billion and reported per capita income of
$1,350. The economy is predominantly agricultural, with more than
half of the country's labor force engaged in farming, forestry, and
fishing. Since 1990 annual growth has increased to an average 3.9
percent, led by the private sector, and inflation fell to 8.4
percent in 1995 from 60 percent in 1990.
Guatemalan social indicators are among the lowest in the Latin
American region and show only slow improvement, reflecting, among
other things, persistent under-investment in social services and
basic rural infrastructure. Attempts by the Government to promote
poverty alleviation and increase social spending targeted on the
poor have been frustrated by serious institutional weaknesses
within the public sector. Inadequate human resources and personnel
management policies, traditionally weak tax administration, and
antiquated financial management practices have resulted in an
inability to fully deliver basic services, efficiently manage
financial resources, or properly implement investment programs.
Consequently, tax compliance is undermined, external donor funding
is foregone, and ad hoc organizations and mechanisms must often
substitute, if inadequately, in service delivery.
The Government has initiated a comprehensive program of public
sector reform with the goal of increasing revenues, transferring to
the private sector wherever appropriate the delivery of public
services, and improving the institutional capacity of the Central
Government and decentralized public sector. These reforms are
considered vital to enhance investment and sustained economic
growth, promote social development and poverty alleviation, and to
support the implementation of the Peace Accords ending years of
civil conflict.



2.      Objectives
The project would seek to (i) improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of tax and customs administration through strengthening
collection, audit, and enforcement procedures; and
(ii) increase tax revenues. Key to the strategy would be: the
creation of a new institution for internal revenue and customs with
improved operational, financial, and human resources management;
the strengthening of tax collection and auditing processes; the
establishment of taxpayer assistance services; the elimination of
loopholes in the law and simplification of norms and procedures;
and the introduction of more rigorous enforcement mechanisms.
3.      Description
The proposed technical assistance project consists of four components:
Creation of Superintendency of Tax Administration (SAT). Detailed
design and creation of a new decentralized entity responsible for
the collection of central Government revenues. The Superintendency
would include Departments of Internal Revenue and Customs; utilize
a special independent personnel system based on modern merit-based
management policies; be financed through a fixed percentage of tax
collections; and be supervised by a Board of Directors.
Facilitating Voluntary Compliance: Identification and
implementation of measures to reduce the costs of compliance and to
actively assist taxpayers to fulfill their legal duties, including
modifications of regulations, simplification of forms, creation of
taxpayer assistance and grievance units, and establishment of a
more effective internal appeals system.
Strengthening Enforcement Mechanisms: Establishment of new legal
and institutional structures to improve tax collection enforcement.
A new Audit Department would consolidate all audit and
investigation expertise within the SAT, with updated information
technology and analytical tools to facilitate data cross-checking,
logistical support, and strengthened legal power to investigate tax
evasion. Particular attention would be given to training.
Social Communications: This component would help secure citizen
understanding for the tax administration reforms by financing a
social communication campaign to inform and educate the public
about the benefits of an independent and professionalized tax
collection authority, on changes in the tax law, compliance and
enforcement mechanisms, and taxpayer services and rights. The
component would also provide feedback to the Government on tax
administration issues, as well as promote internal change
management within the SAT and the goals of increased transparency
and accountability.
4.      Financing
The World Bank loan of approximately $28 million would finance an
estimated 70 percent of the total project costs of approximately
-2 -



$40 million. The loan would be used to fund technical assistance,
training, equipment purchases, and technical and professional staff
for the project coordination unit. Training, including formal
courses and observational travel would be a major focus of the
project. Equipment purchases would include the purchase of
computers, software, and related information technology items. The
IDB and USAID are expected to cofinance the project through
programs aimed at strengthening the Customs Service. Government
resources would finance infrastructure and logistical expenses.
5.      Implementation
A Project Coordination Unit within the SAT would be the principal
unit overseeing the design and implementation of the program. The
PCU would be headed by a National Director, and staffed by national
and international consultants with relevant experience in tax
administration issues. The PCU would report to the SAT Board of
Directors (chaired by the Minister of Finance) once it is
established.
6.      Sustainability
The project is expected to have a lasting impact on the financial
base of Guatemala's public sector. By supporting a comprehensive
reform in the modality of tax administration, the project should
help the Government establish a sustainably higher, and more
predictable, level of revenues. The project's emphasis on creating
appropriate incentives for tax payment should: (i) lead to
increased resources to finance public investment and social sector
spending, creating constituencies for more vigorous enforcement of
tax collection; (ii) help increase the credibility of the public
sector in general; and (iii) establish benchmarks for tax collection.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from previous tax administration projects and
reflected in the project aim at: (i) ensuring commitment and
ownership of the overall reform through extensive and deep dialogue
with the authorities in all aspects of project design and
implementation, plus the presentation of the project to a wide
audience of senior Executive Branch and Congressional leaders,
civil society, and key staff to encourage "buy-in" and commitment;
(ii) creation of an experienced and highly-skilled project
coordination unit; (iii) ensuring appropriate emphasis on
organization, business processes, human resource selection, pay,
and training issues and avoidance of an overemphasis on information
technology. To avoid undue focus on solely the creation of the new
Superintendency, the project would finance major substantive
efforts to promote tax compliance both through the provision of
improved services, as well as the implementation of a strengthened
audit effort to raise the perceived risk of detection of non-compliance.
The project has identified several additional best practices from
the Bank's global experience including: (i) organization of tax
administration based on function rather than by tax; (ii) downward
-3 -



delegation of authority complemented by training and improved
management information systems; (iii) priority attention on the
review and strengthening of the legal and regulatory framework;
(iv) programming of a social communications campaign to educate
taxpayers on their rights and obligations; and (v) reliance on a
Unified Taxpayer Registry to monitor tax compliance and establish a
single taxpayer account.
In addition, the project will benefit from lessons learned in
previous Technical Assistance operations including: (i) specific
yet flexible action plans would be developed for each component
that focus on outputs, and define evaluation criteria and
performance indicators; and (ii) criteria would be established to
ensure careful project supervision, especially with respect to
procurement and supervision of consultants, so as to prevent
inadequate budget control and weak management.
Lessons learned from other operations in Guatemala to be addressed
include: (i) the need for close project supervision which will be
facilitated in this case by close overlap with the integrated
financial management project, the opening of a resident
representative office, and frequent project reviews linked to
preparation of related public sector management operations; (ii)
the need to assure adequate counterpart funding, which should be
facilitated in time by successful implementation of the tax
administration reforms supported by the project; and (iii) the need
for greater permanency in counterpart staff, which will be
encouraged by the Bank as a critical issue in its project supervision.
The satisfactory experience heretofore with the Integrated
Financial Management project (GU-7213), declared effective in April
1996, and being implemented by the Ministry of Finance, gives a
level of assurance regarding the commitment and ability of that
Ministry to implement the proposed project in a timely and
successful manner.
8.      Poverty Category
Not Applicable
9.      Environmental Aspects
The project (category C) will have no adverse environmental impact.
10.     Program Objective Categories
The proposed project addresses the issue of economic management by
increasing the public sector's ability to raise revenues. To the
extent that it strengthens the public sector's ability to increase
social spending and investment, it will address poverty issues.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
- 4-



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:  (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 1, 1997.
- 5 -



