Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4225-GU
Loan Agreement
(Tax Administration Technical Assistance Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 11, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4225-GU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 11, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
by agreement dated January 6, 1997 (the USAID Grant Agreement) the United 
States Agency for International Development (the USAID) has agreed to make a grant 
(the USAID Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate amount of $25,000,000 of which 
$1,500,000 will be used to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the USAID Grant Agreement;  
(C)
by agreement dated September 30, 1996 (the IDB Loan Agreement), the 
Inter-American Development Bank (the IDB) has agreed to make a loan (the IDB Loan) to 
the Borrower in an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,400,000 to assist in financing 
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the IDB Loan Agreement; 
and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Page  2
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.   If: (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days; 
or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that 
an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account; or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an 
amount 
of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such 
amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be 
cancelled.". 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth: (i) the Project’s performance indicators and 
targets; (ii) the objectives, principles and characteristics of the legal framework 
referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement; (iii) the positions to be filled in 
by the PCU; (iv) the scope of the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.08 (b) of 
this Agreement; and (v) the criteria for the selection of the procedures referred to 
in Part B.2 (b) of the Project, as such letter may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Bank;  
(b)
"PCU" means the Project coordinating unit referred to in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement; 
(c)
"SAT" means the Superintendency of Tax Administration (Superintendencia 
de Administración Tributaria) of the Borrower to be established pursuant to Section 
6.01 (a) of this Agreement; 
(d)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(e)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement; and
(f)
"Unified Taxpayer Registry" means the Borrower’s registry of taxpayers 
(Registro Tributario Unificado).  
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
eight million two hundred thousand Dollars ($28,200,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
Page  3
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on March 15 
and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall cause the 
SAT pursuant to the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement  to carry out  the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
management, administrative and taxation practices, and shall take or cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the SAT to carry out the Project, and 
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
the carrying out of  the Project by the SAT.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to the SAT  
under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the SAT, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank which shall 
include, inter alia, the SAT’s obligation to carry out the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of this Agreement. 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, 
waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services  required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan  shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall cause the SAT to: (a)
prepare, on 
the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement 
of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the SAT to establish within the SAT, 
and thereafter operate and maintain during the implementation of the Project a Project 
coordination unit (the PCU) with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the 
Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility to coordinate, monitor and supervise 
the implementation of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the SAT to ensure that the PCU is at all times 
headed by a Project director and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  4
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the SAT to maintain policies and 
procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with the indicators and targets set forth in the Implementation Letter, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.    
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause the SAT to not later than thirty days 
after the conclusion of each calendar semester during the implementation of the 
Project, starting in 1998, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request with respect to the progress made 
by the SAT in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester preceding 
the date of presentation of such report.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the SAT to: (a) not later than December 
31 of each year of Project implementation prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan 
(including a timetable), satisfactory to the Bank, with respect to the activities to 
be carried out under the Project during the calendar year following the date of 
presentation of  such plan; and (b) thereafter carry out such plan in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 3.08. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause the SAT to not later than March 31 of 
each year of Project implementation, starting in 1999, review jointly with the Bank 
the progress made by the SAT in: (i) carrying out the Project; and (ii) achieving the 
objectives of the Project, based on the indicators and the corresponding reports 
referred to in Sections 3.05 and 3.06 of this Agreement, respectively.  As part of 
each such review the Bank may require the SAT to prepare an action plan, satisfactory 
to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project implementation.  In such event, the SAT 
shall not later than forty five days after the conclusion of each such review furnish 
such action plan to the Bank and shall thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried 
out, such action plan in accordance with its terms. 
(b)
As part of the annual review to be held not later than March 31, 2000, 
the Borrower shall cause the SAT to jointly carry out with the Bank a Project 
implementation mid-term review of such scope as set forth in the Implementation 
Letter.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause the SAT to, at the request of the 
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with respect to the progress in the carrying out of 
the Project, the performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement, and 
other matters related to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the SAT to promptly inform the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of  the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan for the Project, or the 
performance of the SAT of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the SAT to maintain records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause the SAT to: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Page  5
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
the SAT to: 
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
That the legal framework referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this 
Agreement or any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of 
the Bank, the ability of the SAT to carry out the Project.
(b)
That the regulations referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement or 
any provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived 
or not enforced in such a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the 
ability of the SAT to carry out the Project.
(c)
That the IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1997, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement. 
(d)
That the SAT shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Agreement. 
(e)
That the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the SAT, or for the suspension 
of its operations. 
(f)
That as a result of events which have occurred after the creation of the 
SAT, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the SAT will be 
able to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
(g)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of  any 
grant or loan (including the IDB Loan and the USAID Grant) 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor; or 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
Page  6
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:  
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under any such agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
That the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (e) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur. 
(b)
That the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after the notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.  
(c)
That the event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
That a legal framework has been established (substantially in accordance 
with the objectives, principles and characteristics described in an annex to the 
Implementation Letter) for the operation of the SAT.
(b)
That the PCU has: (i) been established as provided in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement; and (ii) employed the Project director and the personnel for the 
positions listed in an annex to the Implementation Letter. 
(c)
That the SAT has furnished to the Bank the plan for 1998 referred to in 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement. 
(d)
That the regulations for the legal framework mentioned in paragraph (a) 
of this Section have been issued. 
(e)
That the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed by the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
That the legal framework referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this 
Agreement is in full force and effect. 
(b)
That the regulations referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement 
are in full force and effect. 
(c)
That the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and the SAT, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the SAT in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date December 10, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  7
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Centro Cívico
Zona 1, Guatemala
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIP
9207 MINFIP GU
Guatemala, Guatemala
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ Pedro Miguel Lamport 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo 
Acting Regional Vice President 
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
    7,500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
Page  8
(2)
Consultants' services
(a)  under the Project 
   16,900,000
100%
     other than under Part 
     E.2 of the Project
(b)  under Part E.2 of the 
100,000
100%
            Project
(3)
Training
      600,000
100%
(4)
Operating Costs
      900,000
100% until withdrawals
under this Category 
have reached an 
aggregate amount of 
$225,000; 85% until
withdrawals under 
this Category have
reached an aggregate
amount of $550,000
and 55% thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
    2,200,000
TOTAL
         28,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:  
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the SAT in the carrying out of the training activities under the 
Project, including the travel and per-diem cost of the trainees; and 
(d)
the term "Operating Costs" means the expenditures incurred by the PCU 
which are necessary to carry out its functions and responsibilities, including office 
furniture, office supply, office rent and the salaries of the support staff. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $2,820,000,  may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but within twelve months of the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods costing 
less than $150,000 equivalent with the exception of the first two contracts for goods 
to be awarded under Part C.1 (a) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) 
contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 
equivalent; (c) contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent; and (d) Training and Operating Costs as set forth in 
Categories (3) and (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, respectively, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the effectiveness and 
efficiency of the Borrower’s tax and customs administration through the strengthening 
of the collection and auditing procedures and procedures for the enforcement of tax 
laws and regulations; and (b) increase tax revenues.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Page  9
Part A:
Superintendency of Tax Administration  
Strengthening of the institutional, operational, legal and financial capacity of 
the SAT, through the provision of technical assistance and training and the 
acquisition and utilization of goods required therefor.
Part B:
 Taxpayer Compliance 
1.
Improvement of the information technology systems related to tax collection and 
filing of tax forms.
2.
Improvement of: (a) the procedures for: (i) imports declaration (sistema de 
auto-declaración de importaciones); (ii) transit and warehousing of imports; (iii) 
monitoring of exports; (iv) tax appeals; and (v) collecting taxes through the banking 
system; and (b) any other procedure related to the administration of taxes to be 
selected by the SAT in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Implementation 
Letter. 
3.
Carrying out of a revision of the Unified Taxpayer Registry  to broaden its 
scope and improve its efficiency.  
4.
Design and operation of a special taxpayer unit to: (a) assist the SAT in the 
collection of taxes; and (b) provide information and advice to taxpayers with respect 
to their tax obligations. 
5.
Development of a national program for the creation of customer service units to, 
inter alia, disseminate tax information to the public and provide tax assistance to 
the taxpayers. 
6.
Carrying out of surveys to assess the efficiency and effectiveness of the 
program mentioned in Part B.5 above.
Part C:
Enforcement Mechanisms
1.
 Carrying out of a review of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to 
tax administration in order to improve, if needed, the procedures related to: (a) tax 
collection, investigation and auditing; and (b) the application of sanctions to tax 
evaders.
2.
Strengthening of the tax auditing department of the SAT, through: (a) the design 
and implementation of: (i) an audit information system; (ii) procedures for, inter 
alia: (A) the selection, programming and execution of taxpayer audits; and (B) 
supervising and monitoring of  taxpayer audits; and (iii) a training program for the 
benefit of the personnel mentioned in (b) herein; (b) the hiring of qualified 
personnel to carry out tax audits for the SAT; and (c) the acquisition and utilization 
of goods required therefor.  
Part D:
Social Communications 
1.
Carrying out of a national campaign (consisting, inter alia, of seminars, 
workshops and media campaigns) to inform the public with respect to, inter alia: (a) 
the establishment and functioning of the SAT; (b) the changes introduced or to be 
introduced in the tax laws and their regulations; (c) the rights and obligations of 
the taxpayers; and (d) the improved systems and procedures for tax compliance referred 
to in Parts B.1 and B.2 above, including the design, printing and distribution of 
materials required therefor. 
2.
Carrying out of national surveys to assess the public’s understanding and 
awareness of the existing legal and regulatory framework applicable to taxation. 
3.
Design and implementation of a program to educate students attending primary, 
secondary and tertiary schools with respect to the rights and obligations of 
taxpayers. 
4.
Provision of training to the personnel of the SAT concerning the structure and 
functions of the SAT.
Part E:
Project Coordination 
1.
Strengthening of the PCU’s functions through the provision of technical 
assistance and the acquisition and utilization of goods required therefor. 
Page  10
2.
Strengthening of the SAT’s capacity to carry out audits under the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a) From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable: 
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus 
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable: 
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus 
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn: 
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
Page  11
other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum. 
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; 
plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, ixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the  Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh 
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall 
be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after March 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
Page  12
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods  
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more but less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Procurement of all goods under this Part C.1 shall be carried out using 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2.
International or National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be awarded under Part B.1 of 
this Section; and (b) the first two contracts for goods to be awarded under Part C.1 
(a) of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Page  13
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for the activities to be carried out under the Project estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more but less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent,  may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
Services for the activities to be carried out under the Project estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for the activities to be carried out under the Project up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $50,000, the terms of 
reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  14
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
in respect of the Special Account for the Project  to be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  15
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
