Page  1
October 20, 1997
Lic. José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Zona 1
Guatemala, Guatemala
Re:
Japanese Grant for the Preparation of a Tax Administration 
Technical Assistance Project
Grant Number 25491
Excellency:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to 
indicate  the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan to make a grant in an 
amount not exceeding three hundred forty thousand Dollars (US$340,000) (the Grant) to Republic of 
Guatemala (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient 
hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to 
this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said purposes and on 
the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of this 
Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the 
countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Donna Dowsett- Coirolo
Director
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By:
/s/ José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
Authorized Representative
Date:
October 20, 1997
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the Tax Administration Technical 
Assistance Project.  The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
Preparation of action plans to identify actions to be undertaken by the Recipient for the creation 
and operation of a superintendency of tax administration.
(b)
Carrying out of study tours abroad concerning the operation of existing superintendencies of tax 
administration and customs services.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services and “Training” required for the Activities. For 
purposes of this paragraph, the term “Training” means expenditures (other than consultants’ services) 
required for the carrying out of the study tours referred to in paragraph 1 (b) above.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall cooperate with the 
Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to 
evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made prior to the date of this Letter Agreement except that withdrawals, 
in an aggregate amount not exceeding $34,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after September 30, 1997.
(b)
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by June 30, 1998. After that date, the Bank 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the carrying out 
of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s 
applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of the 
Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether or not the 
Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the 
Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the 
Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement 
with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall 
have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary relationship with 
Page  3
the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the 
Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
