                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 33528-CHA




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (CPL-39660 IDA-27990)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$125 MILLION

                                      AND A CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.8 MILLION (US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                          FOR A

                           HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT




                                        May 5, 2006




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (Exchange Rate Effective
                              At Appraisal, November 1995)

                                Currency Unit = Yuan
                                         Y1.0 = US$ 0.12
                                     US$ 1.0 = Y8.4
                                At Closing, April 20, 2005
                                      Y1.0 =US0.12
                                       US1.0=Y8.3
                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1     December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DRA      Design Review and Advisory Services
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EPB      Environmental Protection Bureau
ESC      Echeng Steel Company
GOC      Government of China
HEMC     Hubei Environmental Monitoring Center
HEPB     Hubei Environmental Protection Bureau
HEPCF    Hubei Environmental Pollution Control Fund
HMDC     Huangshi Municipal Drainage Company
HP       Hubei Province
HPG      Hubei Provincial Government
HUEP(O)  Hubei Urban Environmental Project (Office)
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IPC      Industrial Pollution Control
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PPMO     Provincial Project Management Office
PSR      Progress Status Report
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SARS     Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
SDR      Special Drawing Right
SO2      Sulfur Dioxide
TSP      Total Suspended Particulate
WEMC     Wuhan Environmental Monitoring Center
WUDDC    Wuhan Urban Drainage Development Company
XWTC     Xiangfan Wastewater Treatment Company

                              Vice President:    Mr. Jeffrey Gutman, Acting, EAP
                            Country Director:    Mr. David Dollar, EACCF
                              Sector Director:   Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                           Task Team Leader:     Mr. Mats Andersson, EASUR

                                                CHINA
                           HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
    6. Sustainability                                                                12
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
    9. Partner Comments                                                              18
    10. Additional Information                                                       18
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Maps - IBRD27175, IBRD27250

Project ID: P003602                                                  Project Name: HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Mats Andersson                                          TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 5, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-39660; IDA-27990
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General industry and trade sector (50%); Sewerage (45%); Solid waste management (4%);
                            Sub-national government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Environmental policies and institutions (P); Pollution management and environmental health
                            (P); Access to urban services and housing (P); Climate change (S); Municipal governance and
                            institution building (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/31/1993                                     Effective:                           10/11/1996
     Appraisal: 05/23/1995                                         MTR:                             02/04/1999
      Approval: 12/19/1995                                      Closing:                            04/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA/HUBEI URBAN ENV. PROJ. OFFICE (OR
                                           HUBEI PROV. GOVERNMENT)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Nicholas Hope
Sector Director:                Keshav Varma                                   Katherine Sierra
Team Leader at ICR:             Mats Andersson                                 George Plant and Lee Travers
ICR Primary Author:             Terry Hall


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background: At project appraisal in 1995, the population of Hubei Province (HP) was around 55 million
with some 15 million living in 31 cities, concentrated along the Han and Yangtze rivers. At the end of
2003, the provincial population had grown to 60 million with about 18 million living in urban areas.
Wuhan, the provincial capital, is located at the confluence of the Han and Yangtze, and was China's fifth
largest city in 1995 with an urban population of 3.9 million. At present Wuhan's population is close to 5
million, or 25% larger than in 1995.

Municipal environmental services in HP were seriously lacking in the mid-1990's. Sewerage systems
captured only half of the urban wastewater throughout the province and treatment was provided for only
seven percent. Sanitary landfill technology was in its infancy. Many of the industrial plants predated
China's concern with environmental impact. At appraisal, urban lakes and rivers in HP were highly
polluted, and air pollution in a number of provincial cities ranked as the worst in China. As a result,
pollution abatement faced a large investment backlog.

Hubei Provincial Government (HPG) requested World Bank assistance to address these problems. The
cities of Huangshi, Wuhan, Xiangfan and Yichang were identified in urgent need of urban environmental
investments. Ezhou and Jingmen were identified as serious air pollution centers. These six cities
represented 60 percent of Hubei's urban population and accounted for 73 percent of wastewater, 72
percent of total suspended particulate (TSP), and 82 percent of the solid waste loads in the urban areas of
the province. The Hubei Urban Environmental Project (HUEP) was part of HP's long-term abatement
plans with its regulatory, institutional and investment strategies.

Objectives: The principal objective was to improve environmental conditions and management in HP.
Specific objectives were to: (a) put in place institutions and policies able to sustain progress on the
provincial plan for environmental improvement; (b) improve wastewater collection and treatment in three
cities, thus maintaining or raising surface water quality to levels suitable for municipal supply, agriculture,
or other purposes; (c) improve solid waste management in four cities, thus protecting water and land
quality; and (d) identify the highest-impact industrial air and water polluters and significantly reduce their
pollution.

Assessment of Objectives: The project supported the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of
1995 which supported urban environmental management through: (a) an improved regulatory environment;
(b) reduction of pollution loads by enhancing environmental protection; and (c) assisting with infrastructure
development at municipal and provincial level. The Government of China (GOC) attached high importance
to environmental protection, targeting industrial cities and regions. The project strategy benefited from the
Bank's "China: Urban Environmental Service Management" report of 1995 which recommended greater
focus on user charges to finance municipal services. The objectives were challenging taking into account
the conditions at the time, and in view of many project components and cities, and that most implementing
agencies were newly established.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.




                                                       - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following components:

Wastewater Management ($184.5 million). In Huangshi, Wuhan and Xiangfan, comprising sewer
systems, pump stations, and wastewater treatment facilities.

Municipal Waste Management ($37.1 million). In Huangshi, Wuhan, Xiangfan and Yichang, comprising
sanitary landfill development, waste transfer facilities, vehicles and equipment.

Industrial Pollution Control ($130.5 million). A line of credit to assist selected large-scale industrial
enterprises to carry out works for pollution abatement in order to comply with environmental regulations.

Hubei Environmental Pollution Control Fund ($5.0 million). A revolving fund, to finance high
environmental impact investments in small-scale industry, supporting the core program in air and
wastewater management.

Water Quality Monitoring and Management ($2.9 million). In Hubei and Wuhan Environmental
Monitoring Centers, comprising water quality monitoring technology, data management equipment, and
institutional development.

Institutional Strengthening through Technical Assistance and Training ($10.2 million). To support
and strengthen project management, the Hubei Environmental Protection Bureau (HEPB) and city
Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs), financial and municipal utility operations and management,
wastewater and solid waste management, water quality monitoring, feasibility studies, training and future
project preparation.

Assessment of Design: All components were interlinked and clearly addressed the objectives of the project.
While ambitious, their designs were adapted to the expected capacities of the implementing agencies. Since
this was the first Bank supported environmental intervention in HP, lessons from earlier sector projects in
China were factored into the project design, including linking of physical investments with early actions for
institutional reforms, such as the establishment of solid waste and wastewater utility companies, and tariff
reform. A wastewater tariff of Y0.18/m3 for residential and nonresidential consumers was a condition of
loan effectiveness to begin addressing the financial soundness of the wastewater companies.

3.4 Revised Components:
During project implementation, cost savings of about $70 million of the loan arose, due to an increased
competitive environment in China for civil works, and decisions by HP to cancel the Hubei Environmental
Pollution Control Fund (HEPCF) and to reduce the scope of the Industrial Pollution Control (IPC)
component for reasons explained below. The following additional investments were implemented using
these savings. At the same time $47.3 million of the loan were cancelled by GOC.

Wastewater Management ($61.3 million total investment cost). In Huangshi, the additional works
comprised collector sewers around the northern shore of Cihu Lake, and augmentation of Qingshan Lake
system to provide an upgraded facility for secondary treatment capacity of 40,000 m3/d. At Wuhan, the
works included collector sewers, equipment, pump stations, and upgrading to secondary treatment of
650,000 m3/d of wastewater in a number of catchments.

Municipal Waste Management ($4.4 million). In Wuhan and Yichang, additional waste collection and
disposal vehicles, and landfill equipment were acquired in line with the operational plans of the respective



                                                      - 3 -

solid waste company.

Water Quality Monitoring and Management ($0.1 million). For Hubei Environmental Monitoring
Center, limited additional water quality monitoring and data management equipment was acquired to
further strengthen the Center's capabilities.

Assessment of Design: The added investments were consistent with HP's environmental improvement
strategies and sector master plans. Their designs contributed to better achieve the project objectives and
enhanced project benefits. Satisfactory Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) and Resettlement Action
Plans (RAPs) were provided for all additional investments. These additional investments were consistent
with the project objectives and did not constitute a restructuring. They deepened the achievement of the
project objectives.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is considered moderately satisfactory. Environment-related sector work carried out by the
Bank, including a number of urban sector surveys, guided the project design. As noted in 3.1 above, the
project was consistent with the Bank's CAS, which emphasized enhanced environmental protection and
related institutional reform, and strengthened solid waste and wastewater management. Based on this
sector work, the most effective strategic solutions for Hubei were defined. All components were positioned
to support GOC and HPG sector objectives to improve the environment. The project was Category A, and
the applicable Bank safeguard policies were fully satisfied. By appraisal, all feasibility studies were
complete and detail designs for all components were well advanced. Draft tender documents for some 40
percent of the investment program were ready at negotiations.

Risks identified at appraisal were: (a) delays by HPG in implementing a new wastewater tariff structure
and institutional reform, and financial risk due to shortage of counterpart funds; (b) delays in transforming
municipal departments to wastewater utility companies; (c) failure of industrial enterprises to operate
pollution abatement facilities; (d) failure to treat/control pollutants at source by industries; and (e) lack of
sustained investments to meet the long-term wastewater management strategy. While ambitious targets
were set, the assumptions made in the SAR were reasonable and the risk assessment was largely accurate
except for the risks associated with the HEPCF and ICP components which were underestimated.
Mitigation measures included: (a) early deployment of technical assistance to assist HPG with institutional
reform (this started before loan effectiveness); (b) an environmental action plan; (c) a carefully phased
construction plan; (d) implementation of a first wastewater tariff adjustment as condition of loan
effectiveness; and (e) provision of funds for future project preparation to encourage continued
implementation of the long-term program.

HUEPO took the resettlement subject very seriously, to minimize negative impact and protect the livelihood
of displaced persons. They arranged that all PIUs in the project municipalities established a resettlement
team and assigned a dedicated staff to supervise all resettlement work. This arrangement led to successful
resettlement implementation later.

While a well prepared project overall, the performance monitoring indicators for the surface water quality
improvements were too broadly defined to allow effective monitoring of the related project achievements.
The institutional reforms later proved to be difficult and time consuming to accomplish, partly due to an
unanticipated sub-national government reform program in China during the project implementation period.
Due to these somewhat optimistic (over-ambitious) targets, and weak monitoring indicators, the quality at
entry is rated moderately satisfactory.




                                                       - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project objectives were largely achieved, and some physical components exceeded expectations (see
details in Annex 1). However, due to delayed and incomplete institutional reforms, and limited industrial
pollution reduction by the project itself, the overall outcome is rated moderately satisfactory. See Tables A
and B in Annex 1 for ratings of the achievements by the respective implementing entity, and their relative
importance to the overall project, including details on institutional and financial reforms.

Objective (a), put in place institutions and policies able to sustain progress on the provincial plan for
environmental development. Rating: moderately satisfactory. This key objective was addressed by
establishing financially autonomous wastewater utility companies in three cities and solid waste enterprises
in four cities. Financial targets for wastewater and solid waste utilities were given in the Project
Agreement, and while delayed, they were largely met except in the city of Xiangfan. The wastewater
companies were established during project preparation and the solid waste enterprises in 1999.

During implementation, GOC established a series of national-level reforms that significantly extended the
scope for financial and managerial autonomy in the wastewater and solid waste sectors. These included:
(a) conversion of wastewater charges to utility tariffs; (b) direct remittance of tariff revenues to wastewater
companies; (c) incorporation of solid waste companies under company law; (d) adoption of enterprise
accounting; (e) cost recovery of solid waste and wastewater services from the residential sector; and (f)
systems to support increased management autonomy of utility companies. The project's reform program
was consistent with these national initiatives; in fact, it was enhanced in 2002 to incorporate them fully.

All project companies made progress towards their financial and institutional reform targets, although the
achievements varied significantly between companies and sectors. Huangshi and Wuhan wastewater
companies made substantial headway, while reforms in Xiangfan were limited. Most solid waste
companies struggled to achieve adequate revenues from user charges to meet operational and debt service
costs. These companies still rely to some extent on budgetary allocations from the municipal governments.

The project provided technical assistance (Package A) and assisted HPG with its institutional reform
program through international and domestic consulting support. Such support was provided for internal
organization and staffing of newly established utility companies, related operational policies and
procedures, project management practices, and construction supervision models. The sector institutions
also benefited from extensive training on infrastructure and utility management, financial management,
construction management; procurement; environmental management; and operation of facilities. All the
companies were however significantly affected by reforms in the municipal administrative structure in the
project cities. While these reform programs established a more supportive basis for the company-level
reforms, the programs caused significant delays and short-term adverse impacts on the company's reform
programs, resulting in unsatisfactory project status during 2000 to 2003. During this time, the supervisory
bureaus overseeing the project companies were reorganized. As of 2004, the company reform programs
were reinitiated and substantial progress was made. For example, Wuhan increased its wastewater tariffs
and established direct remittance of the tariff revenues from the collecting agency (the Wuhan water
company) to the wastewater company, rather than remitting these to the municipal finance bureau for
subsequent budget allocation to the company.




                                                       - 5 -

Achievement of Financial Objectives. These objectives pertain to the levels of wastewater tariffs and solid
waste fees and charges to achieve the project's cost recovery objectives defined in the financial covenants.
All three wastewater companies in the project complied with the tariff levels agreed as conditions of
effectiveness. During implementation, the companies prepared (with extensive consultant support) annual
financial projections, which were reviewed with the Bank. While wastewater tariffs were adjusted several
times in all three cities, these tariff increases were frequently implemented too late to comply with
covenants. This contributed to the project being rated unsatisfactory at various times. Huangshi and
Wuhan wastewater companies complied with the covenants as of 2004. The Xiangfan wastewater
company, the smallest project entity, remained out of compliance at project closing. Industrial discharge
permits totaled 2,028 in 2004 compared with the target of 1,500, and collection of industrial pollution levy
fees by HEPB reached 60 percent (SAR target was 65 percent). Overall achievements are somewhat less
than the ambitious objectives set in the SAR, and were slow to materialize. See detailed ratings in Table A
and B in Annex 1 of the reform achievements.

Objective (b), improve wastewater collection and treatment in three cities, thus maintaining or raising
surface water quality to levels suitable for municipal supply, agriculture, or other purposes. Rating:
moderately satisfactory. All physical works in the original project scope, i.e., collector systems and
preliminary/primary treatment in Huangshi, Wuhan and Xiangfan, were completed satisfactorily, on time,
with good quality, below budget, and set in operation at adequate capacity, with the exception of the
Xiangfan works which to date has only operated intermittently due to local budget constraints. The
additional works in Huangshi and Wuhan approved in 2002, deepened the positive impact of the project.

While the wastewater component clearly had a positive impact on the water quality of the affected water
bodies compared to a situation without the project, the degree of impact proved difficult to determine due to
many influencing factors in a rapidly changing urban environment. The SAR provided quality targets for
Cihu Lake in Huangshi, East Lake in Wuhan, and Qilile and Xiaoqinghe rivers at Xiangfan, based on the
national classification index of I (best) to V (worst). These targets at project completion were all set at III,
with the water quality at the start of the project being assessed as worse than V for Huangshi and Xiangfan,
and IV for Wuhan. During ICR preparation, the project team reviewed changes over time of a number of
pollutants in the respective city, to reflect a more comprehensive understanding of the water quality
changes than the index. This data is in the project file and available upon request. While the target of III
was met on some indicators in Huangshi and Wuhan at project completion, the nitrogen and phosphorus
levels remained V or worse throughout. While the project investments had a direct positive environmental
impact by intercepting and treating more than 1.2 million m3/day of wastewater, preventing further
deterioration of the water quality, the expansion of the cities' economy made these two pollution levels in
the lakes remain the same. Consequently, overall the surface water quality was maintained, not improved.
Sludge accumulation on the lakebeds is also a cause of the slow improvement. A dredging program is
currently planned by the municipal government, which may improve the situation. Essentially all pollution
levels remained the same in the main Xiangfan rivers due to the limited operations of the wastewater
treatment plant, and to other developments in the area. Xiangfan was the smallest project wastewater
sub-component.

Objective (c), improve solid waste management in four cities, thus protecting water and land quality.
Rating: moderately satisfactory. All four cities improved the collection and disposal of refuse to sanitary
landfill sites, although the achievements by city varied. In all cities, sanitary landfill disposal sites have
been operating since 2002, providing leachate treatment and gas disposal facilities. Xiangfan's operation
substantially outperformed the "percent disposal to sanitary landfill" target (achievement of 100% vs. a
target of 50%). Huangshi and Yichang did not meet the targets set for project completion (27% vs. a target
of 50% for Huangshi, and 83% vs. a target of 95% for Yichang). In Wuhan, the disposal target of 44% in


                                                         - 6 -

2001 was achieved on time. However, in mid 2005 the project landfill was closed by the municipal
government, on environmental grounds due to close proximity to newly built residential and commercial
areas. This site existed as an informal solid waste site since 1989, and at project start-up in 1996 the
surrounding area was still totally undeveloped. While the site served Wuhan well for five years (70% of
the originally planned landfill capacity had been used at the time of the closure), further waste storage
would have involved compacting waste above ground, which was considered unacceptable to Wuhan
Municipality. The city instead started development of a new sanitary landfill some 40 km from Wuhan.
This sanitary landfill is due to be commissioned in late 2006. In summary, this project objective was only
partially achieved based on the set targets.

Objective (d), identify the highest-impact industrial air and water polluters and significantly reduce their
pollution. Rating: moderately satisfactory. The ICP component was significantly reduced from $135.5 to
$29 million due to the highest polluting enterprise, Echeng Steel Company (ESC), withdrawing from the
project due to economic downturn in the steel market in China. However, aside from the project, ESC did
carry out an extensive program of technology modernization, which contributed to substantial air quality
improvements in Ezhou city. Sulfur dioxide (SO2) improved from Class III in 1996 to Class II by 2004,
and TSP levels improved from Class III in 1996 to Class II in 2004.

Cement plants at Jinmen and Yichang were relocated and air pollution abatement facilities included at the
new plants under the HUEP project's ICP component, providing significant air quality improvements.
These factories were identified as the highest-impact polluters next to ESC. At the Yichang factory, the
SO2 output decreased from 76.6 to 45 tons/year and dust emissions dropped from 2,600 to 115 tons/year.
The air quality in Yichang city showed improvement as a result of this relocation. The municipalities of
Jinmen and Yichang have now redeveloped their old in-city factory sites for residential housing and
recreation amenities for the residents. The $5 million Hubei Environmental Pollution Control Fund
(HEPCF), originally intended as a revolving fund, was cancelled during project implementation due to the
emergence of more attractive alternative financing for companies. While the direct project impact was
reduced from the ambitions at appraisal, most of the air quality improvement objectives were still achieved
through a combination of project interventions and initiatives outside the project by companies using other
means.

Social Objectives (Safeguards). Rating: satisfactory. Resettlement involved both households and
enterprises, and was carried out satisfactorily, in compliance with Chinese regulations and Bank guidelines.
Land acquisition totaled 152 hectares affecting 62 families and enterprises. Some 634 persons needed
re-employment. With the additional works program, the figures for land acquisition and re-housing were
somewhat higher than the SAR estimates, while the number of persons needing re-employment declined
from an estimated 996 to 634. The additional works in Huangshi and Wuhan, and with compensation costs
increasing more rapidly than originally expected due to housing price increases in Hubei, as in the most of
urban China, caused the actual resettlement costs to become $56 million vs. the SAR estimate of $20
million.

Based on collected data and final resettlement completion surveys, negative impacts on land acquisition and
structure demolition were minimized, as illustrated in the table below. As a result, the number of displaced
persons was reduced significantly. The affected persons were compensated as per the RAP and follow-up
sample interviews confirmed their satisfaction.




                                                      - 7 -

Evolution of resettlement volumes (Note: data based on the original project scope only):

                                            Land                  Structures        Affected persons
As per original RAP                         577.5                 49,595             377
After Initial Adjustments during            348.5                 35,950             223
Implementation
At Completion after Final Adjustments 229                         13,645             154

Affected persons were consulted during both RAP preparation and implementation, and the information
related to resettlement policies was offered in transparent ways. Timely cash delivery at replacement cost
allowed displaced persons to construct their housing before demolition. Full land compensation to villages
allowed development of adequate village plans. In many cases, the subproject offices and local government
agencies provided supplemental support in conjunction with broad consultation, including cash and other
assistance to recover livelihoods. A local institute, contracted as independent monitoring agency,
interviewed displaced persons and submitted annual reports to HUEPO as of the start of civil works in the
respective subproject. The monitoring institute supervised the compensation cash flow, and provided
recommendations to each local resettlement office.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Wastewater Management: Satisfactory. The original works, comprising collector sewers, pump stations
and preliminary/primary treatment at Huangshi, Wuhan and Xiangfan, were completed satisfactorily and
commissioned by 2002. All works remain in continuous operation in Huangshi and Wuhan at appropriate
capacity. The smallest sub-component, the Xiangfan plant, operates only intermittently (see above). The
additional works program at Huangshi and Wuhan was also largely complete at project closing. Using own
funds, the Wuhan works were completed by the end of 2005 and the Huangshi works will be completed by
May 2006, providing secondary treatment to an increased wastewater flow. These works deepened project
outcome and responded to new national legislation requiring cities to provide for secondary wastewater
treatment.

Municipal Waste Management: Moderately Satisfactory. Sanitary landfill sites, transfer stations and
vehicle fleets were provided in all four cities. All landfills have been operating since 2002. In mid 2005
the sites at Xiangfan and Yichang received 100 and 83 percent respectively of the cities' solid waste. At
Huangshi, the site receives only about 30 percent of the city's solid waste; the remaining refuse volume
being disposed to uncontrolled dump sites near the city. This situation is expected to change shortly,
however, as these dumps become full in 2006-2007. The Jinkou waste site in Wuhan opened in 1989.
Following the completion of project financed leachate treatment and gas disposal facilities in 2000, this site
operated satisfactorily at its rated capacity of 2500 t/day until mid-2005 (dealing with about 50 percent of
the city's daily refuse and having reached 70% of its landfill capacity), at which time the site was closed
(see Section 4.1).

Industrial Pollution Control (IPC): Moderately Satisfactory. While this component was reduced
substantially due to the withdrawal of ESC (see Section 4.1), pollution abatement measures were
successfully implemented under the project at the other highest polluters in the province, the Jinmen and
Yichang cement companies, and the Exi Chemical Company. All these facilities have operated successfully
since 2000 and the air quality improvements are substantial as noted in Section 4.1.

Hubei Environmental Pollution Control Fund (HEPCF): Unsatisfactory. This provincial fund was
cancelled by the HPG due to lack of effective demand on the terms offered by the fund, reflecting a rapidly



                                                      - 8 -

changing local financial market. No alternative funding program was developed as replacement.
Consequently no environmental benefit ensued from the component.

Water Quality Monitoring and Management: Satisfactory. Both Hubei Environmental Monitoring
Center (HEMC) and Wuhan Environmental Monitoring Center (WEMC) are better able to respond to
air/water quality management needs. HEMC has a new pollution monitoring system in operation
responding to national and provincial demands. WEMC benefited through improved equipment and
monitoring capability, and a data management information system. Training was an important aspect of
this component; both centers benefited from local and overseas training programs on environmental
management. Air and water quality monitoring is now performed regularly and reliably through these
centers.

Institutional Strengthening through Technical Assistance (TA) and Training: Moderately
Satisfactory. While the TA and training program was fully completed as planned, the rating reflects the
incomplete institutional reforms accomplished during project implementation. The project included
extensive and varied training programs in China and overseas. Subjects included: institutional and
financial management; wastewater and solid waste management; construction; procurement; environmental
management; and operation of facilities. Staff training was extended to 114 person months in China, and
48 person months overseas. Staff remained in their jobs and used the learning achieved. Postponing the
mobilization of the institutional development and construction management TA to better coincide with the
reform and physical implementation schedules respectively, would likely have provided more efficient
utilization of the corresponding foreign technical experts.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR strategy focused on establishing economic least-cost options for each component, and providing
rigorous analyses of such options. An economic rate of return was not calculated for the project because of
the difficulty and time-consuming efforts required to obtain reliable quantified estimates of benefits. These
included improved quality of river and lake water bodies, and air quality in the project cities, and, as a
consequence, enhanced value for drinking, industrial, agriculture and recreational use, and improved
well-being of the city residents. Project outcome became more of preventing further water quality
degradation than a significant improvement of the water quality in the respective surface waters, due to
parallel rapid urban economic expansion. The implemented solutions remained the least­cost options for
the project interventions.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not estimated at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated modest based on detailed assessments referred to in Section
4.1, Objective (a). Significant institutional development occurred also in conjunction with the preparation
of the project, including legal establishment of all the wastewater and solid waste companies involved in the
project. The project helped move the provision of these services from a government bureau model to an
enterprise model. Enterprise accounting systems were implemented in all of these utility companies during
the project implementation.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Inflation Rates. Both domestic and foreign inflation rates varied substantially from the values estimated at
appraisal. The annual domestic inflation rate was projected to decline gradually from 10.6 to 6.2 percent



                                                      - 9 -

from 1996 to 2000. In fact, the index fell from 8.3 to ­1.4 percent between 1996 and 1999 and remained
negative through 2002, with positive values of 1.2 and 3.9 posted for 2003 and 2004 respectively. Foreign
inflation showed a similar trend. An annual value of 2.6 percent was projected through 2002, whereas
substantial negative values (varying between ­7.0 and ­0.2 percent/year) were posted throughout this
period. This contributed to the lower project costs than projected, allowing additional works to be carried
out using savings.

Low Bid Prices. The final costs (bid price plus variations) for major civil works and equipment contracts
were consistently much lower than the SAR estimates (averaging 35 percent). A increasingly competitive
domestic market for civil works contracts, and lower than anticipated inflation figures, contributed to the
lower prices. Despite the relatively high International Competitive Bidding (ICB) threshold of US$10
million, the ICB for civil works contracts attracted no interest from foreign bidders; all such contracts were
awarded to local firms.

Changing Local Financial Markets. The HEPCF fund was cancelled by the provincial government for the
following reasons: (a) in-country loans became more attractive after the project was appraised; (b) lending
criteria by the domestic bank intermediary and the Bank were not compatible; and (c) the repayment period
(3 to 5 years) was too short to be competitive in the new environment. No alternative program was
considered required to replace HEPCF at the time.

Other Factors. A severe flood occurred in the Yangtze basin in 1998. This caused about six months delay
of interceptor construction in Huangshi and Wuhan. The 2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
(SARS) virus epidemic in China, caused about four months delay in implementing the additional works
program. The uncertainties caused by a downturn in the steel market contributed to the Echeng steel
company leaving the project. (See also 5.4 below).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Procurement Delays. Internal clearance procedures for ICB contracts were protracted and time
consuming. The Tendering Department of the Mechanical and Electrical Bureau of the Ministry of
Commerce carried out this task for the GOC, being involved at all stages of the tender process (document
review, bid evaluation, complaints, etc.). The process time varied between three and nine months. This
and Bank review procedures should be factored into implementation schedules in future. Procurement
delays were also severely impacted in 2003 and early 2004 by the local government reorganization process,
due to uncertainty regarding local approval authorities.

More Stringent Discharge Standards. Specific discharge standards for effluent from preliminary or
primary wastewater treatment plants did not exist before 2002. In 2002, the GOC issued a comprehensive
standard covering the quality of effluent discharged from municipal treatment plants. This standard relates
effluent quality to that of the receiving water body and its use. The impact of this was that the project
municipalities needed to adopt secondary wastewater treatment processes to meet the new standard, which
caused some revisions of the respective city wastewater master plans, and related uncertainty regarding
contract initiations in the meantime. Upgrading of a few plants to secondary treatment was included in the
additional works program.

Shortage of Counterpart Funds. Insufficient budgetary allocations by the municipal governments affected
construction progress negatively, particularly during the early years of project implementation. During the
later stages of the project, this was moderated by: (a) ready availability of national bond funds; and (b)
higher revenues generated from wastewater tariffs.

Jinkou Landfill Closure. During the years after the completion of this Wuhan landfill in 2000, the



                                                     - 10 -

continued expansion of the city and its residential areas moved closer and closer to the landfill site, to the
point when the city decided, rather than restrict further urban expansion in the landfill vicinity, to close the
landfill in mid 2005. The city instead appropriately initiated construction of a new landfill 40 km outside
of its built up area. While the Jinkou landfill served the city well during five years (70% of the landfill
capacity was used at the time of the closure), due to the city's very rapid growth and the subsequent closure
decision, the life of the investment was reduced from about seven to five years, and caused the percentage
of solid waste disposed to sanitary landfills to fall from more than 50% to 16% in mid 2005. The new
landfill is expected to be opened at end of 2006, at which time the 50% (or higher) disposal ratio will be
achieved again. The Jinkou site is now being developed as a green space, with planting of trees and grass.

Institutional and Financial Reforms. While at the time of the project closure, most of the intended
reforms, for example asset transfers to the newly established public utility companies, tariff increases,
direct remittances of tariff revenues, etc. were implemented (except for Xiangfan wastewater management),
the corresponding decisions tended to be taken later than agreed.

Local Government Reorganization. The uncertainties regarding roles and decision-making authority
created by the local government reorganizations in 2003 delayed the implementation of the additional works
significantly. This difficult period of local government administrative reform also frustrated urgently
needed reforms for the wastewater and solid waste companies to respond to some of the financial
covenants.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
While the project benefited from the generally stable staffing in the HUEPO (a temporary project
coordination office), this office relied very heavily on consultant support, and consequently had limited
means to impact project related decision making among the many local governments and implementing
agencies.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Costs: The final project cost is $302.1 million, including interest during construction. This is 21.6 percent
lower than the original cost estimate of $385.2 million, and includes the additional components costing
$65.6 million. Based on the original project scope, the final cost is only some 60 percent of the SAR
estimate. The project was prepared during a period of high and volatile inflation (see Section 5.1 above).
It became clear during implementation that a large portion of the loan would remain unused at the end of
the project. The reasons included: (a) the actual cost of the Industrial Pollution Component (IPC) was
reduced substantially following the withdrawal of ESC and the cancellation of the HEPCF; (b) the bids for
the major contracts were substantially lower than the SAR estimates due to increased domestic
competitiveness in bidding for civil works; (c) inflation projections were over-estimated in the SAR; and (d)
government unit rates used for the SAR estimates over-estimated market prices, especially when linked
with the "low responsive bid" requirement in the Bank's procurement guidelines.

As a result, the HPG aand the Bank agreed to include additional municipal investments, well defined and
consistent with enhancing the project objectives, rather than cancel some $70 million of contract savings of
the loan. Three new sub-components were added (solid waste, wastewater management and environmental
monitoring), and at the same time $47.32 million of the loan were cancelled. In order to allow adequate
time for implementation of the added investments, the closing date was extended twice, for a total period of
34 months to April 30, 2005. The first extension was required due to the additional investments being
appraised close to the end of the original project closing date. The need for the second extension arose due
to the impacts of the local government reorganization, the incidence of the SARS virus epidemic in 2003,
and to the resulting implementation delays for these additional investments.



                                                       - 11 -

Finance: The final amount of Loan disbursed was $77.68 million. The IDA Credit of SDR16.8 million
was fully used. The Bank financed 33.5 percent of the total project cost, somewhat less than the figure of
38.9 percent estimated at appraisal.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the project's sustainability is rated likely although this rating varies between the components and
cities. HPG has remained committed to environmental protection with a Han River Basin Management
Project proposed for Bank financing (under preparation), further supporting that objective. All the original
physical components were successfully completed and are fully operational, apart from the Xiangfan
wastewater treatment plant, which operates only intermittently due to budget constraints. The additional
sub-components were fully operational by the end of 2005 (apart from the Hanxi treatment plant, due in
May 2006). At project closing, assurances were provided for the availability of adequate local funds for
the timely completion of the remaining contracts. Normal local construction supervision was being
maintained.

While later than originally expected, all wastewater companies have made significant progress on their
financial and institutional reforms. The sustainability of Huangshi component is rated likely since
Huangshi Municipal Drainage Company (HMDC) has operated the facilities since 2002; compliance with
financial covenants was maintained in 2003 and 2004. Early problems with transfer of revenues from the
Huangshi water company are largely overcome. A tariff adjustment to Y0.8/t is planned later in 2006 to
meet the needs of the Qingshan secondary treatment plant being due for operations in May 2006. The
Wuhan component is rated highly likely. Wuhan Urban Drainage Development Company (WUDDC)
currently owns and operates all its assets and receives direct remittance of the tariff revenues. Completed
facilities have been in successful operation since 2002, and WUDDC is in full compliance with financial
covenants. WUDDC plan to request a tariff adjustment in October 2006 (from Y0.80/t to Y1-1.20/t) to
take effect as of mid 2007, in order to meet the needs related to additional investments, partially funded by
Asian Development Bank. The Xiangfan component is rated unlikely. Xiangfan Wastewater Treatment
Company (XWTC) still does not operate as a fully functioning utility, but relies on municipal budget
allocations. While the Xiangfan municipality increased the wastewater tariff to Y0.63/t in mid 2005, the
collection rate is poor (less than 50 percent). The company's assets are still operated by a municipal
government bureau. While the sewerage system is in full operation, the wastewater is only intermittently
treated at the plant before being discharged to the Han River.

While the sustainability strength of the solid waste components vary somewhat across the cities, it is rated
likely overall based on: (a) sanitary landfill sites were completed in all four cities and are in full operation,
apart from the Jinkou site in Wuhan which was closed by the municipal government in mid-2005 (a new
adequate sanitary landfill is on schedule to be in operation at end of 2006); (b) while the revenues generated
from municipal charges are insufficient to support the waste operations, required subsidies from budgetary
allocations have generally been reliable; (c) while the Huangshi and Wuhan waste companies deal only with
landfill site operation, district government units have long experience with the refuse collection, transport
and vehicle maintenance in these cities; and (d) Xiangfan and Yichang waste companies have proven
themselves as efficient bulk waste transport and disposal companies, as intended in the SAR, although the
charges and collection rates (60 percent at Yichang) are low. This is common in China, even in many
much larger cities. Regarding the Jinkou site in Wuhan, the originally planned waste capacity for this site
was about 6 million ton. At the site closing, it had already received 4.2 million ton, or 70% of the planned



                                                       - 12 -

volume. Wuhan plans to make effective use of the closed site as a green space.


In Huangshi a charge of Y40.8/ton is applied for collection and disposal. Huangshi waste company
receives Y21/ton to cover debt service and disposal. Costs are projected to rise steeply towards the end of
2005 when the old in-city dumps are closed. Plans have been established for additional municipal budget.
In Wuhan, the solid waste company receives a municipal allocation of about Y4.0/ton for disposing of
Wuhan's 5000 tons/day of refuse, while the municipal government deals with the debt service costs. At
Xiangfan the revenue from the Y2/person/ month charge equated to Y47/ton in 2004, for collection,
disposal and debt service. Since the corresponding costs that year were Y53/ton, a need exist for only a
limited municipal allocation. In Yichang, a revenue of Y6 million was generated in 2004 based on charges
of Y50/ton for residential users and Y72/ton for commercial users. This company also received a
municipal allocation of Y10 million. Total revenue in 2004 equaled Y63.5/ton compared with a Y82/ton
cost for collection and treatment. Continued government subsidies are planned for.

The sustainability of the portion of the IPC component that was financed under the project is rated highly
likely. Pollution abatement measures were successfully completed by 2000 at Exi Chemical Company, and
Jinmen and Yichang cement companies. These facilities have been in operation for the past five years. All
three companies continue as viable commercial enterprises and the pollution abatement measures resulted
in much improved air and wastewater quality.

The overall institutional sustainability is rated likely although the rating would uncertain at this stage
regarding the Xiangfan wastewater company due to limited reform progress to date. For the other
companies, the legal and organizational foundations are in place, the skill profile and experience of the
personnel is adequate, and the asset situation of the utility companies is stable.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The original physical components have been successfully operating for varying periods since 2000. Staff
training was given high priority by the operating companies (see Section 4.2). This ensured a smooth
transition to regular operations and staff is well equipped with the necessary skills to operate and maintain
the new facilities. All project utility companies have short-term as well as longer-term operational plans,
linked to their five year and longer term business plans.

Financial: Huangshi and Wuhan wastewater companies met their financial targets in 2004, and at project
closure in April 2005. Compliance is expected for the full 2005. A tariff adjustment is needed at Huangshi
in 2006, at present scheduled from the end of 2006. Xiangfan has made least progress with its institutional
reform, with the wastewater operation still directly funded by the municipality. While this small company
remained out of compliance with financial covenants at project closure, the municipal government made a
major user charge adjustment (from Y0.23 to Y0.63/m3) as of July, 2005. While the proceeds started to be
fully transferred to the Xiangfan Wastewater Treatment Company from the Xiangfan Finance Bureau as of
mid 2005, new investments underway will required a further significant user charge adjustments in coming
years.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification: satisfactory. The Bank fielded a highly experienced team of senior sector specialists, very
familiar with the environmental sector issues in China and beyond. The China: Urban Environmental
Service Management report identified the need for the government to develop a mix of point source control


                                                       - 13 -

and collective treatment of wastes in order to control urban environmental degradation. This strategy was
adopted in HUEP and the project design conformed to GOC and HPG sector policies, and the Bank's CAS.
The wastewater component comprised the first stage of strategic programs to intercept and treat
wastewater in three cities, and the IPC component identified the highest-impact air and water polluting
enterprises.

Preparation: satisfactory. The Bank team was a very experienced one with a broad and relevant skill mix,
and was substantially maintained throughout preparation. This team worked closely with HUEPO, the
PIU's, and the foreign and local consultant teams throughout. The project was comprehensively designed,
with extensive financial and environmental analysis, and with particular focus on least cost solutions and
safeguard reviews. The project was designed with the view toward maximizing the impact of policy and
institutional innovation in the province. The importance of establishing sustainable wastewater and solid
waste companies, and related institutional and financial reforms, was emphasized to achieve maximum
project impact. More than $3 million of foreign/local preparation consultant support (financed by foreign
governments) was timely mobilized, including for water quality monitoring, and ecological studies of East
Lake in Wuhan. The design of the solid waste component included improvement both in waste collection
and disposal to sanitary landfill sites.

Appraisal: satisfactory. A broad-based, very experienced Bank team of seven professionals, all with
previous China experience, carried out a thorough project appraisal (see SAR). At appraisal, all
procurement arrangements were finalized, contract packages determined and draft tender documents
completed for about 40 percent of the municipal investment program. Procurement and financial
management training was provided to the implementing units, and preparations for technical assistance and
training during project implementation activities were well advanced with corresponding TORs completed.
While project monitoring indicators were included in the SAR together with base-line data, the water
quality indicators were of a very general nature only. The project was reviewed thoroughly based on the
Bank's safeguard policies at the time, with EIAs and RAPs forming an adequate basis for subsequent
monitoring. The inclusion of the Hubei Environmental Pollution Control Fund (HEPCF) and the Industrial
Pollution Control (IPC) components in the project reflected the comprehensiveness of the project
preparation and appraisal from a strategic environmental improvement perspective. However, as
mentioned earlier, the risks associated with these were somewhat underestimated.

7.2 Supervision:
The performance of the Bank during supervision is rated satisfactory. A total of 20 supervision missions
were undertaken, averaging every six months. The teams comprised institutional, financial, safeguards,
industrial, and municipal engineering specialists. The project experienced unforeseen circumstances and
issues that were addressed promptly and constructively by the Bank team in its assistance to the HUEPO.
During such periods, significant additional support and supervision was carried out from the Bank's
Beijing office. One-person missions from the Beijing office were also carried out periodically for
supervision of the safeguard aspects of the project implementation. The HEPCF ($5 million) and IPC
components were cancelled and reduced respectively due to circumstances outside the project's control.
The project closing date was extended twice, once after the original project scope had been implemented, to
allow additional works using contract savings, and a second time to allow additional time to substantially
complete these works (the delay having been caused by the impact of government administrative reform
process and the SARS epidemic). Thorough review of project status and performance were carried out
before each extension. Detailed appraisal of the additional works was carried out by the Bank team. Bank
management was engaged extensively at both times.

Timely supervision supported social safeguard policies to be implemented transparently and enabled the



                                                    - 14 -

livelihood of displaced persons to be recovered timely. During the early stages of the project, the Borrower
experienced difficulty with the concept of contract award to the "lowest responsive bidder" resulting in one
case of mis-procurement on a civil works contract of $9.1 million (the corresponding loan amount of $3.6
million was cancelled). Particular supervision attention was paid to the loan covenants and related
remedies. Issues relating to institutional reform rightly dominated mission discussions from 2000 to 2003
when the project was rated unsatisfactory. During this time, review meetings were held with provincial and
municipal officials at the highest level, and detailed action plans agreed. This included a commitment letter
received from the Wuhan Municipal Government in May 2002. Comprehensive mission aide-memoires
were produced throughout (see project file).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Comprehensive teams were fielded during preparation
as well as supervision. Extensive consulting support was mobilized by the Bank for project preparation.
As it became clear that significant loan savings would occur, the Bank team actively supported HUEPO in
defining the most effective additional works, and undertook thorough appraisal of the same. The Bank
intensified supervision during the periods of implementation delays and noncompliance with loan
covenants, elevating the dialogue to the senior management of municipalities and the province. Detailed
action plans were agreed upon. Extensive performance reviews were carried out before extending the loan
closing dates.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. At project identification, HPG established a high level Leading Group, chaired by a Vice
Governor of the province, and a provincial project office (HUEPO) headed by a senior manager in HEPB.
Project Implementation Units (PIU's) were staffed with experienced technical and management personnel,
and HPG benefited from substantial international and local consultant support during preparation,
including for Design Review and Advisory (DRA) services engaged by HPG. The consultant teams were
staffed by senior sector specialists who critically reviewed options to ensure least-cost appropriate designs.
The timely appointment of consultants and municipal design bureaus enabled an ambitious HPG
preparation schedule to be maintained, while providing high quality designs. While the project was ready
for physical implementation, delays in loan effectiveness occurred due to late implementation of a
wastewater tariff adjustment. EIA and RAP reports were an integral part of the preparation process,
together with economic and financial considerations. As mentioned above, the risks related to the HEPCF
and IPC were underestimated.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. Throughout, the provincial and municipal governments remained committed to the overall
sector policies, although the timing of reform decisions and corresponding implementation tended to be
delayed, and varied among the municipalities (see Table A and B in Annex 1). For example, asset transfer
to new utility companies, tariff reforms, and availability of sufficient resources for sustainable utility
operations, depends more on government decisions in China than on the utility company management.

While HUEPO and PIU's were maintained and adequately staffed throughout the project life, and
continuity of management largely maintained, HUEPO relied to a large extent on consultant support for
many functions, and the PIUs relied on such support for their financial projections. Design institutes,
consultants and the selected procurement agencies were engaged in a timely manner and provided
competent professional support. During the early project stage, implementation was delayed by lack of
timely counterpart fund availability, particularly in the smaller municipalities. This was soon rectified
though through access to government bond funds.



                                                      - 15 -

Reporting was timely in accordance with the legal requirements, although construction progress was
emphasized more than performance indicator and reform progress follow-up. More recently the report
scope was broadened to include more reference to institutional activities. While environmental monitoring
was continuously undertaken, as per standard government procedures, the corresponding results were
included in project reporting first in 2004 and reviewed in detail at the ICR stage. A significant
contributing factor was difficulties in distinguishing the degree of the project's positive impact on the water
quality in the respective water bodies compared to many other (mostly negative) influencing factors.

Land acquisition and resettlement were implemented in accordance with national policies and Bank
guidelines (for details, see sections 4.1, 7.6 and the Borrower's Implementation Completion Report.)
HUEPO demonstrated strong performance in managing the social safeguard aspects of the project even
though the subprojects were located in different municipalities. Land acquisition and resettlement were
enhanced for displaced persons regarding, for example, compensation rates and jobs provided. The Bank's
thematic resettlement supervision team was fully satisfied with the efforts by HUEPO and the local PIUs.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Although the performance of the agencies varied, and most emphasized construction, overall
they performed satisfactorily considering the state of the entities and the sectors at project closing, and that
most agencies were newly established at project start. All wastewater and solid waste investments, and the
water quality monitoring, technical assistance and training activities of the original project scope, were
implemented by the original project closing date, below budget, and with good construction quality.
Continuity of management and staff was largely maintained, with the exceptions in Wuhan. There were a
number of changes in senior staff in the Wuhan wastewater company, and for the Wuhan solid waste
company the senior management was changed at the time of the municipal reorganization in 2003.

While compliance with the wastewater cost recovery covenant (in Huangshi, Wuhan, and Xiangfan) proved
difficult during 2000 through 2003, the required tariff levels are in effect since 2004, except for Xiangfan
(see Section 6.2). A comprehensive Charging Study for the solid waste companies was completed in 1999
with support from an international consultant team. While completed two years later than originally
planned due to HUEPO prioritization of project start-up activities, this study produced a proposed action
plan to recover full costs for solid waste services from commercial and industrial users. The Xiangfan
solid waste company does not require any budget allocations to cover operations and debt service costs. It
meets these costs from its tariffs. The other three solid waste companies, however, still rely to a greater or
lesser extent on municipal budgetary allocations to meet operational and debt service costs, since revenue
from user charges and collection rates remain low (common throughout China). The funding levels for
these three solid waste operations vary widely between the cities though (see Section 6.1). Nevertheless,
waste collection and disposal to sanitary landfill continues in all cities in line with targets projected in the
SAR, apart from Wuhan, where the Jinkou site has closed recently (see Section 5.2). A replacement site is
under construction in Wuhan and expected to be in operation at the end of 2006. A reduced IPC
component was successfully implemented at Jinmen and Yichang cement companies, and at Exi Chemical
Company; these investments resulted in substantial positive environmental impact (see Section 4).

Resettlement and environmental impact activities were carried out satisfactorily in accordance with Chinese
regulations and Bank guidelines. Each implementing agency engaged local social and environmental
academies to support their safeguard programs throughout the project duration. Resettlements activities
were carried out thoroughly and in a timely manner. While follow-up of the project environmental impact
assessments were undertaken periodically as agreed at project appraisal, these follow-ups were not reported



                                                      - 16 -

on in any details in the project progress reports provided to the Bank. (They were reviewed during Bank
supervision missions.)

While sometimes delayed (as explained earlier), procurement was done in accordance with Bank guidelines
with one notable exception. During the early stages of the project, the Borrower experienced difficulty with
the concept of contract award to the "lowest responsive bidder" resulting in one case of mis-procurement
on a civil works contract of $9.1 million. The GOC internal review process for ICB contracts was not
anticipated in the implementation schedule. This caused delays in awarding contracts, particularly in cases
where complaints needed to be addressed. Engagement of consultant teams to assist with implementation,
however, enabled the work to proceed satisfactorily.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The original project scope of investments was
completed successfully and is substantially in full operation. The same applies to the additional works
program although this was delayed for noted reasons. While institutional reforms were slow to materialize,
they were implemented to a great extent at project closing.

8. Lessons Learned

·        When new project agencies and implementing units are being established in conjunction with a
project, and related institutional and financial sector reforms are to be advanced, this project demonstrated
the importance of setting the corresponding reform targets and timelines as realisticly as possible, taking
into account the readiness of related governmental decision-making bodies to act on the same. Otherwise,
with overambitious goals, good advances may be accomplished, but all targets still not met.
·        While the monitoring indicators provided in the SAR, and subsequently enhanced in conjunction
with the additional works, were overall comprehensive in the Chinese context, they later highlighted the
challenge of determining (at a reasonable cost) the specific project outcome and impact on water quality, as
opposed to many other positive or negative influencing factors and developments. In order for
implementing entities to be in a position to evaluate project impacts more effectively throughout
implementation, the monitoring indicators should be defined in a way that facilitates a cost-effective
monitoring program. In this case it is clear that the water bodies would have deteriorated even further
without the project, but it is difficult to determine how much.
·        Project agencies and implementing units should in future similar projects include to the extent
possible (or actively build) personnel with utility and environmental management skills, in addition to
construction management expertise, bearing in mind the utility operational management needs longer term.
In this case, most implementing agencies and PIUs were newly established, and while focusing on
construction implementation, also obtained significant training and technical assistance during project
implementation.
·        Civil works contracts in infrastructure projects in China do not attract any interest internationally,
even when contracts are packaged in amounts exceeding $10.0 million. An increase in the ICB ceiling for
civil works contracts is unlikely to change this. Local firms are well skilled to undertake the work at very
competitive prices. Appraisal cost estimates should properly reflect this reality, and reflect the latest
market situation for similar infrastructure projects in China. (GOC's unit-rate prices tend to lag behind the
rapid evolving market rates in China.) In addition, the option of ICB turn-key contracts could be
considered to encourage local/foreign joint venture firms to participate, with potential for even stronger
construction management and introduction of new technology.
·        As realistic processing times as possible for GOC and Bank contract reviews should be included in
implementation schedules to avoid the appearance of implementation delays. This applies particularly to
ICB contracts, for which extensive domestic procedures exist, and to particularly large or complex



                                                       - 17 -

contracts (including any turn-key contracts).
·        While challenging, when applying intermediary approaches such as the HEPCF and the IPC
components to finance industrial investments, extensive efforts are required to assess the effective demand,
potential changes in local financial markets and other influencing factors, etc. to ensure the viability of the
approach and reduce project risks at the time.
·        The borrower issued a contract to an international consulting firm (TA Package A) shortly after
loan effectiveness, for institutional and financial development support to the newly established utility
companies. This proved to be too early for optimal TA effectiveness. The utility companies were during
the initial years of project implementation functioning mostly as construction management companies, with
no assets yet under their management and with very limited general utility management and operational
activities. For TA support to be most effective, it should be closely coordinated with the project
implementation schedule, and be provided at a time when the clients (the TA beneficiaries) are in the best
position to make effective use of the TA.
·        During the preparation and implementation of the RAPs for this project, detailed field surveys
allowed not only minimization of negative impacts due to land acquisition and structure demolition, but
also helped reduce the cost of the related project civil works. An approach recommended for future similar
projects.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Borrower's Implementation Completion Report attached as Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                      - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Objective (a): Institutional reform and policies for sustained environmental impact.

Indicator Matrix              1995    1996      1997      1998     1999     2000    2001    2002   2003    2004    2005
Hubei Enioenmental
Protection. Bueaur
(HEPB)                         40       45         5       55       60        65
Percentage collection
of pollution levy fee
Actual/latest estimate                                                                                                60

No.of enterprises             300      500       800      1000     1200     1500
covered by discharge
permits
Actual/latest estimate                                                                                              2028/b

Wastewater
Companies
Tariffs in Y/m3                       0.18*
Actual/latest estimate.
Huangshi (HMDC)                                                                                                    Y0.40/m3
Wuhan (WUDDC)                                                                                                      Y0.80/m3
Xiangfan (XWTC) /c                                                                                                 Y0.63/m3

Operating ratio                        < 1.0
Actual/latest estimate                for all
HMDC                                   years                                                                         <1.0
WUDDC                                                                                                                <1.0
XWTC                                                                                                                NA /b

Debt service ratio                    < 1.3
Actual/latest estimate                for all
HMDC                                  years                                                                          <1.3
WUDDC                                                                                                                >1.3
XWTC                                                                                                                 <1.3

Solid Waste Operations

Commercial and industrial
tariff Y/ton.                      < average cost of collection and treatment from July 1, 1997 onwards.

Actual/latest estimate
Huangshi (HSWC)                    Charge of Y40.8/ton applied from 2003. HSWC receives Y21/ton to cover debt service
                                   and costs of landfill operations.
Wuhan (WSWC)                       Allocation of Y7.0 mill. by municipal government in 2005, corresponding to Y4.0/ton for
                                   landfill operation. Debt service paid by local government.
Xiangfan (XSWC)                    Charge of Y2/person/month from 1998. Revenue of Y12 mill. generated in 2005,
                                   covering collection, disposal and debt service (Y47/ton).
Yichang (YSWC)                     Charges of Y50/ton for residential and Y72/ton for commercial users apply. In 2004
                                   revenue = Y6.0 mill. Y10.0 mill municipal allocation also
                                   Applied, covering operational costs. Debt service paid by local government.
/a. All projections as per SAR or PSR.
/b. Includes 1608 wastewater discharge permits and 420 exhaust discharge permits.
/c. XWTC still operates through a municipal department.
*(< average cost per m3 of treated wastewater)




                                                                 - 19 -

Objective (b): To maintain or improve surface water quality through improved wastewater collection and
treatment in three cities. /a


Indicator Matrix                1995    1996        1997      1998      1999      2000     2001     2002       2003      2004
Wuhan. /b
East Lake water quality          IV                             IV       IV        IV        III                           III
Actual/latest estimate                                                                                                     IV
(I - >V depending on
pollution parameter)

Huangshi
Cihu lake water quality
-southern shore                  >V                             >V       >V         V        IV                            IV
Actual/latest estimate                                                                                                     IV
(I - >V depending on
pollution parameter
Xiangfan
Qilile and Xiaoqing
River Water quality. /d          >V                             V        V         IV        IV                           III
Actual/latest estimate                                                                                                    III
(I - V depending on
pollution parameter)
/a. As part of the ICR preparation, the project team reviewed changes over time of a number of pollutants in the respective city, to reflect
a more comprehensive understanding of the water quality level changes than reflected in the applied water quality index I­V. This data is
in project file and available upon request.
/b. Water quality: Class I and II: high quality suitable as drinking water source; Class III: usable for drinking water after treatment; Class
IV: boating, fishing, industrial water supply; Class V; irrigation and industrial cooling.
/c. Air quality Class I: sustained exposure poses no risk to well-being; Class II: plants/animals can maintain normal development; Class
III: all except sensitive plants & animals can attain normal development.
/d. Quality measurements done at junction of Qilile/Xiaoqing rivers.

Objective ( c): To protect water & land quality through improved solid waste management in four cities.

Indicator Matrix                1995    1996        1997      1998      1999      2000     2001     2002       2003      2004        2005
Solid waste percentage
disposed to sanitary
landfill or equivalent

Huangshi                         18                            >25       >37       >37      >37                                      >50
Actual/latest estimate                                                                                                                27

Wuhan                            17                            >30       >44       >44      >44                                      >50
Actual/latest estimate                                                                       45       48        53         51        16 /a

Xiangfan
Actual/latest estimate            0                             0        >15       >43      >43                                       >5
                                                                                                                                     100
Yichang
Actual/latest estimate           66                            >75       >95                                                         >95
                                                                                                                                      83
/a. The Jinkou landfill in Wuhan was completed in 2000. The site was closed in 2005 by the municipal government due to proximity to
new housing developments. A new landfill is under construction 40km from the city and is scheduled for operation as of end of 2006. In
the meantime, the solid waste percentage disposed to sanitary landfills is reduced to 16.




                                                                     - 20 -

Objective (d): To identify highest-impact industrial air and water polluters and significantly reduce their
pollution

Indicator Matrix             1995     1996       1997      1998    1999      2000     2001   2002    2003     2004      2005
Air Quality

Ezhou                         III        III       III      III       II       II      II      II     II        II        II
Actual/latest estimate
Sulfur dioxide (SO2)                     II        II       III       II       II      II      II     II        II        II
Total susp. particulate                  III       III      III      III       II      II      II      I         I         I
(TSP)

Yichang Cement /a
(No projections in
SAR/PSR)
Actual/latest estimate
In city location.
SO2                                      III       III       II       II       II      II      II     III      III        III
TSP                                      III       III      III      III      III     III       I     II        II        II
At new plant location.
SO2. /b                                                                                               II        II        II
TSP                                                                                                   III      III        III
/a. The plant was relocated away from the city center in 2002.
/b. Regarding SO2, the old plant produced 76.6 T/yr.; new plant produces only 45 T/yr.
Regarding dust emission, the old plant produced 2600 T/yr.; new plant produces only 115T/yr.




                                           Table A. Assessment of Achievements

Project Entity                 Relative                Rating of                        Rating of        Rating of
                               importance              physical                         institutional    financial
                               of the entity           implementation                   reform           reform
                               in the project          achievements                     achievements     achievements
Wuhan Urban Drainage           High                   High                              Medium           Medium (delays in tariff
Development Company                                                                                      and other reforms)
Huangshi Municipal             High                    High                             High             Medium (due to delays in
Drainage Company                                                                                         tariff increases)
Xiangfan Wastewater            Medium                  Medium (completed on time;       Low              Low
Treatment Company                                      good quality; but only in
                                                       limited operation).
Wuhan Solid Waste              High                    High (but closed after five      Low              Low
Company                                                years of operation)
Huangshi Solid Waste           High                    High                             Low              Low
Companies
Yichang Solid Waste            Medium                  High                             Medium           Medium
Company
Xiangfan Solid Waste           Medium                  High                             Medium           Medium
Company
Hubei Environmental            High                    High                             NA               NA
Monitoring Centers
Wuhan Environmental            High                   High                              NA               NA
Monitoring Centers
Echeng Steel Company           High                    Low (investments done            NA               NA
(ESC)                                                  outside of the project)
Yichang and Jinmen             High                    High                             NA               NA
Cement Companies, and
Exi Chemical Co.



                                                                  - 21 -

                       Table B. Details on Financial Reform Achievements


Project Entity Tariffs Operating  Adoption of   Full       Direct     Full Cost Debt
                       Ratio      Enterprise    Autonomy   Remittance Recovery  Service
                       (WWCs)     Accounting               of WW Fee
Wuhan Urban     High   High       High          Medium     High (but  Medium    High
Drainage                                                   not until
Development Co                                             2004)
Huangshi        Mediu  High       High          Medium     High (but  Medium    High
Municipal       m                                          implemente
Drainage Co.                                               d
                                                           late)
Xiangfan        Low    Low        Low           Low        Low        Low       Low
Wastewater
Treatment Co.
Wuhan Solid     Low    NA         Low           Low        NA         Low       NA
Waste Company
Huangshi Solid  Low    NA         Low           Low        NA         Medium    NA
Waste Company
Yicheng Solid   Mediu  NA         Low           Low        NA         Medium    NA
Waste Company   m
Xiangfan Solid  Mediu  NA         High          Medium     NA         Medium    NA
Waste Company   m




                                             - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                          Appraisal              Actual/Latest          Percentage of
                                                                                           Estimate                  Estimate               Appraisal
                                  Component                                               US$ million              US$ million
 Huangshi:                                                                                     13.90                      21.88                     200
      Solid Waste Management
      Wastewater Management ­original component
                    -additional works
 Wuhan:                                                                                      122.10                     167.18                   177.8
       Solid Waste Management ­original component
                    -additional works
       Wastewater Management-original component
                    -additional works
 Xiangfan:                                                                                     45.40                      44.98                     258
       Solid Waste Management
       Wastewater Management
 Yichang:                                                                                    197.00                     255.10                   229.6
       Solid Waste Management
                  Subtotal - original component.
                    -additional works
 Technical Assistance & Training ­original                                                      8.30                       8.72                  105.1
                    -additional
 Industrial Pollution Control /a                                                             135.50                       28.96                    21.4
 Water Quality Monitoring                                                                       2.50                       2.10                      84
                    Hubei Monitoring Center
                    Wuhan Monitoring Center
              Subtotal
 Total Baseline Cost /b
                  Physical Contingencies                                                       34.60
                    Price Contingencies
            Total Project Costs ­original project.                                           370.20                     286.09                     59.6
                    -additional works.
              Total Cost ­original +additional.
                    Interest during construction /c                                            15.00                      15.97                    77.3
 Total Financing Required                                                                    385.20                     302.06                     78.4

 Total Baseline Cost                                                                       1329.70                     1133.04
   Physical Contingencies                                                                      24.10
   Price Contingencies                                                                         10.50
                                      Total Project Costs                                  1364.30                     1133.04
                           Total Financing Required                                        1364.30                     1133.04
/a. The sums include allocations for both the line of credit and HEPCF.
/b. Includes the cost of land.
/c. Interest during construction is based on on-lending rates for projected disbursements of loan/credit proceeds, and payment of commitment charges.
/d. Calculation based on appraisal estimate of "base cost plus contingencies" in US$.
    Note: At appraisal the exchange rate was assumed to vary over the project life. Base value was Y8.4 = US$1.0 in 1995.




                                                                         - 23 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                         1
                                                              Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                      ICB                NCB                      2             N.B.F.           Total Cost
                                                                                    Other
1. Works                                      44.20              69.50               0.00                  0.90              114.60
                                             (18.00)            (28.20)             (0.00)               (0.00)             (46.20)
2. Goods                                      55.20                1.00              1.60                  3.80              61.60
                                             (41.60)             (0.80)             (0.40)               (0.00)             (42.80)
3. Services                                    0.00                0.00             10.20                  0.00              10.20
Institutional Development                    (0.00)              (0.00)             (8.00)               (0.00)              (8.00)
& Training
4. Miscellaneous                               0.00                0.00            135.00                  0.00              135.00
                                             (0.00)              (0.00)            (50.00)               (0.00)             (50.00)
5. Construction                                0.00                0.00              0.00                20.00               20.00
Management                                   (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)
6.Supervision & Project                        0.00                0.00              3.90                24.40               28.30
Managment                                    (0.00)              (0.00)             (3.00)               (0.00)              (3.00)
    Total                                     99.40              70.50             150.70                49.10               369.70
                                             (59.60)            (29.00)            (61.40)               (0.00)            (150.00)

"3. Services" refers to Institutional Development & Training.
"5. Miscellaneous" refers to Construction Management Services.
"6. Miscellaneous" refers to Supervision & Project Management.

/1. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan/Credit. All costs include contingencies.
/2. Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing
the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
/3. N.B.F. = Not Bank/IDA-financed.
/4. The Industrial Pollution Control Component would be disbursed through (a) a line-of-credit and (b) sub loans of
HP's revolving credit facility.




                                                              - 24 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                  1
                                                               Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                           ICB           NCB               2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                              Other
1. Works                                          28.52           89.20        0.00            5.54             123.26
                                                  (7.32)         (32.53)      (0.00)           (0.00)           (39.85)
2. Goods                                          33.99           0.00         0.51            0.00             34.50
                                                  (33.47)        (0.00)       (0.00)           (0.00)           (33.47)
3. Services                                         0.00          0.00        10.46            0.00             10.46
Institutional Development                         (0.00)         (0.00)       (10.46)          (0.00)           (10.46)
& Training
4. Miscellaneous                                    0.00          0.00        33.72            0.00             33.72
                                                  (0.00)         (0.00)       (16.45)          (0.00)           (16.45)
5. Construction                                     0.00          0.00         0.00            56.00            56.00
Management                                        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
6.Supervision & Project                             0.00          0.00         0.93            43.19            44.12
Managment                                         (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.93)           (0.00)           (0.93)
    Total                                         62.51           89.20       45.62           104.73            302.06
                                                  (40.79)        (32.53)      (27.84)          (0.00)          (101.16)
"3. Services" refers to Institutional Development & Training.
"5. Miscellaneous" refers to Construction Management Services.
"6. Miscellaneous" refers to Supervision & Project Management.
 1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
    of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
    managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
    /3. N.B.F. = Not Bank /IDA-financed.
    /4. The Industrial Pollution Control Component was disbursed through a line-of-credit. The HEPCF was cancelled.




                                                               - 25 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                                  Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                      Appraisal Estimate                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 Bank          Govt.         CoF.          Bank          Govt.         CoF.         Bank  Govt.   CoF.
Hubei Government                              149.70                                    183.63                            122.7
Municipal Governments &
Enterprises
Industrial Enterprises                         85.50                                     17.27                             20.2
World Bank                       150.00                                   101.16                                    67.4
Co. Financing /b                                             0.00                                       0.00                       0.0
Total /a                         150.00       235.20         0.00         101.16        200.90          0.00        67.4   85.4    0.0

  /a. Includes interest during construction (IDC); $15.0 million at appraisal; $15.97 million actual.
  /b. Bilateral grant assistance was provided by the following countries to assist with project preparation activities:

  Country                                   Amount                                Purpose
                                          US$ million
   Japan                                      1.00                     Municipal solid waste management
   Canada                                     0.40                     Water quality monitoring
   Canada                                     0.80                     Ecological balance of East Lake
   Australia                                  0.63                     Municipal wastewater management
   Norway                                     0.30                     Nightsoil management
   Total                                      3.13




                                                               - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Least-cost methods were used to justify investment choices at appraisal. An Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) was not calculated. The reasons for this approach are properly justified in the Staff Appraisal
Report.




                                                  - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/1994                   3    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             PROJECT ADVISOR (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/1995                   7    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                                             (1); WATER &
                                             SANITATION ENGINEERS
                                             (2); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PROJECT
                                             ADVISOR (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

              04/07/1996                4    ENGINEER (1); ECONOMICS          S               S
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT (1)
              10/29/1996                2    ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER          S               S
                                             (1)
              05/07/1997                3    ENGINEER (2); FINANCIAL          S               S
                                             ANALYST (1)
              11/28/1997                3    ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER          S               S
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              06/20/1998                2    TTL/SANITARY ENGINEER            U               U
                                             (1); SENIOR PROJECT
                                             ADVISOR (1)
              MTR: 02/04/1999           5    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER/TTL           U               U
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              06/26/1999                3    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER/TTL           U               U
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); SECTOR DIRECTOR (1)
              03/21/2000                3    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER/TTL           S               U
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                                             ADVISOR (1)
              09/22/2000                3    TEAM LEADER/ENGINEER             S               U
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); LOCAL PROJECT



                                              - 28 -

                                            ADVISOR (1)
               01/16/2001              4    TEAM LEADER/ENGINEER              S    U
                                            (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                            (1); PROJECT ENGINEER (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPECT. (1)
               06/09/2001              3    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            CONSULTANT (2)
               10/22/2001              3    SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER            S    S
                                            (1); PROJECT ADVISOR (1);
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
               01/24/2002              3    TEAM LEADER/ENGINEER              S    S
                                            (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                            (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                                            SPECIALI (1)
               06/25/2002              3    TTL/ENGINEER (1);                 S    S
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                            INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALI
                                            (1)
               12/17/2002              2    TTL & ENGINEER (1);               S    S
                                            INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALI
                                            (1)
               08/27/2003              4    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);           U    U
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                            INSTITUTIONAL SPECIAL.
                                            (1); URBAN MGMT SPECT. (1)
               02/06/2004              4    URBAN SPECIALIST (1);             S    S
                                            ENGINEER (2); FINANCIAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
               09/10/2004              4    SR. URBAN SPECIALIST (1);         S    S
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                            PROJECT ADVISOR (1);
                                            ENGINEER (1)

 ICR
               07/2005                4     MUNICIPAL ENGINEER                S    S
                                            (1); SANITARY
                                            ENGINEER (1); INST.
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                            (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             110                           310
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    67                          206
  Supervision                            154                           680
  ICR                                      12                           40
  Total                                  343                         1,236




                                            - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Resettlement
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report No. 14879-CHA
Borrower's Implementation Completion Report dated August, 2005.
Aid Memoires/Project Status Reports
Quarterly Progress Status Reports from Client




                                               - 32 -

        N




     N




N

N




     N

