Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14879-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
NOVEMBER 15, 1995
Environmental and Municipal Development Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1, 1995)
Currency = Renminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = 100 fen
Y 1.00 = $0.12
$1.00 = Y8.4
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
i millimeter (mm) = 0.0394 inch (in)
I centimeter (cm) = 0.3937 inch (in)
I meter (m) = 3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.6214 mile (mi)
I square meter (mi2) = 10.7639 square feet (ft2)
1 square kilometer(km2) = 0.3861 square mile (mi )
I cubic meter(m 3) = 35.3147cubicfeet(ft )
cubic meter (mi3) or ton of water = 284 US gallons
1 hectare (ha) = 2.4711 acres (ac)
I liter (1) = 0.2642 US gallon (gal)
liter per capita per day (1/c/d) = 0.2642 US gallon per capita-day
cubic meter per second (m3/sec) = 35.3145 cubic feet per second



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AUSAID - Australian Agency for International Development
CAS      - Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA    - Canadian International Development Agency
CNIITC - China National Instruments International Tendering Company
EA       - Environmental Assessment
EPB      - Environmental Protection Bureau
HEMC   - Hubei Environmental Monitoring Center
HEPB    - Hubei Environmental Protection Bureau
HEPC    - Hubei Environmental Protection Committee
HEPCF  - Hubei Environmental Pollution Control Fund
HFTIB    - Hubei Finance Bureau
TIMDC   - Huangshi Municipal Drainage Company
HP       - Hubei Province
HPG      - Hubei Provincial Government
HPPC    - Hubei Provincial Planning Commission
HUEPO  - Hubei Urban Environmental Project Office
ICB      - International Competitive Bidding
MFMD   - Municipal Facilities Management Division
NCB      - National Competitive Bidding
NEPA    - National Environmental Protection Agency
OED      - Operations Evaluation Department
PCBC    - People's Construction Bank of China
PHRD   - Policy & Human Resources Development
QA       - Quality Assurance
RAP      - Resettlement Action Plan
SAA      - State Audit Administration
SOE      - Statement of Expenditure
TVE      - Township and Village Enterprise
UCB      - Urban Construction Bureau
UNDP   - United Nations Development Programme
WEMC  - Wuhan Environmental Monitoring Center
WHO    - World Health Organization
WMWE  - Wuban Municipal Wastewater Enterprise
XMSC   - Xiangfan Municipal Sewerage Company






CHINA
HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The People's Republic of China.
Implementing Agency:     Hubei Urban Environmental Project Office.
Beneficiaries:           Hubei Province; Yichang, Huangshi, Xiangfan, and Wuhan
Municipalities; the wastewater companies of Huangshi,
Xiangfan, and Wuhan Municipalities; industrial enterprises.
Poverty:                 Not applicable.
Amount:                  Loan:  $125 million equivalent.
Credit: SDR 16.8 million ($25 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Loan:  20 years including 5 years grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate for currency pool
loans.
Credit: Standard, with 35 years' maturity including 10 years
of grace.
Commitment Fee:          Loan:  0.75 percent  on  undisbursed  loan  balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Credit: 0.50 percent on  undisbursed  credit  balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:         From the Government of China to Hubei Province and from
Hubei Province to the Municipalities:
Loan:  20 years including 5 years grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate, and commitment charge of
0.75 percent.
Credit: 20 years including 5 years grace at the Association's
standard terms.
From the muricipalities to the wastewater companies:
15 years including five years grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate, and a commitment charge of 0.75
percent.



From Hubei Province to the industrial enterprises:
up to 12 years including up to 3 years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate plus a spread of no less than
1.5 percent per year, and a commitment charge of 0.75
percent.
Financing Plan:           See Table 3.2.
Net Present Value:        The solid waste and wastewater handling and treatment
investments in the project were determined through least-cost
analysis.
Staff Appraisal Report:    1 4879-CHA.
Maps:                     IBRD Nos. 27175 and 27250.
Project ID Number:        CN-PE-3602



CONTENTS
1. URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ...........................................1
A. Urban Environmental Conditions ...........................................1
B. Regulation Of Point Sources ...........................................3
C. Collective Waste Handling And Treatment ...........................................4
D. Bank Group Sector Strategy ...........................................5
2. THE PROJECT AREA ...........................................8
A. Existing Environmental Conditions ..........................................X8
B. Regulatory Strategies ...........................................9
C. Institutional Strategies ...........................................1.1
D. Investment Strategies .......................................... 12
E. Project Formulation ..........................................                                                 14
3. THlE PROPOSED PROJECT ..........................................                                                          15
A. Project Objectives ..........................................                                                  15
B. Project Description ..........................................                                                 15
C. Project Cost Estimates ..........................................                                              16
D. Financing Plan ..........................................                                                      19
E. Procurement ..........................................                                                        20
F. Disbursement ..........................................                                                       23
G. Land Acquisition And Resettlement ..........................................                                   24
H. Environmental Impact Assessment ..........................................                                    25
I. Project Monitoring, Reporting And Supervision ..........................................                          26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited China in June 1995.
Project team members included Mr. George Plant (Senior Operations Officer and Task
Manager), Mr. Lee Travers (Economist and Co-Task Manager), Mr. Roger Heath (Principal
Industrial Engineer), Mr. Jack Fritz (Environmental Engineer), Miss Sun Chongwu
(Operations Officer, RMC, Beijing), Mr. Terry Hall (Sanitary Engineering Consultant), Mr.
Patrick McCarthy (Financial Consultant), Mr. David Jackson (Solid Waste Consultant) and
Prof. Wang Yangxiang (Industrial Consultant). Assistance was also provided by Miss Chen
Tianshu (Interpreter). Peer reviewers for the project were Mr. Wiebe Moes (SA3EI);
Mr. Bernard Baratz (EMTEN); and Ms. Selina Shum (EC3IV). The managing division is
EA2EM. The Division Chief is Ms. Katherine Sierra and the Department Director is
Mr. Nicholas C. Hope.



- fit-
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .......................................... 31
A. Project Management ........................................................                                                       31
B. Implementation  Responsibilities ........................................................                                         32
C. Status Of Engineering ........................................................                                                    36
5. FINANCE ........................................................                                                                               37
A. Financial Management ........................................................                                                     37
B. Accounting ........................................................                                                                37
C. Audits ........................................................                                                                   38
D. Provincial Finance ........................................................                                                       38
E. Municipal Finance ........................................................                                                        39
F. Wastewater Agencies ........................................................                                                      39
G. Wastes Management ........................................................                                                        43
H. Industrial And Environmental Pollution Control Subprojects .......................... 44
6. ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS ................. 45
A. Project Justification ........................................................                                                    45
B. Economic Analysis ........................................................                                                        45
C. Environmental Impact ........................................................                                                     49
D. Affordability  And  Poverty  Assessment ........................................................     50
E. Project Risks ........................................................                                                            50
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................................ 53
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Background To Hubei Province And Project Cities ......................................... 57
Annex  2:  Detailed  Project Description ........................................................                                                61
Annex  3:  Detailed  Project Cost Estimates ........................................................                                             81
Annex 4: Schedule Of Contract Packages .......................................................                                                   91
Annex 5: Schedule Of Disbursements ........................................................                                                      94
Annex  6:  Land  Acquisition  And  Resettlement ........................................................                                           95
Annex 7: Enviromnental Assessment Summary ........................................................    105
Annex  8:  Project Implementation  Schedule ........................................................                                            128
Annex 9: Supervision Plan ........................................................                                                              129
Annex  10:  Hubei Province  Organization ........................................................                                               130
Annex 11: Environmental Improvement Action Plan                                                   .................................. 132
Annex 12: Hubei Environmental Pollution Control Fund                                                   .            ............................. 136
Annex 13: Municipal Finances                                           ................................................... 142
Annex 14: Economic, Social And Environmental Considerations   .                                                            ....................... 156
Annex 15: Selected Documents And Data Available In The Project File . ................. 174



- iii -
Tables in Text
Table 3.1:  SUMMARY  COST ESTIMATES .................................................................                                    18
Table 3.2:  FINANCING  PLAN .................................................................                                            19
Table 3.3:  PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .................................................................                                      21
Table 3.4:  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS .................................................... 26
Table 3.5:  DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE INDICATORS ........................................................... 26
Table 4.1:  IMPLEMENTING  AGENCIES .................................................................                                     32
Table 5.1:  WASTEWATER AVERAGE TARIFFS .................................................................  40
Table 5.2: KEY WASTEWATER FINANCIAL AND OPERATING INDICATORS ......................... 42
FIGURES IN TEXT
Figure  1.1:  URBAN  TSP  AND  SO2 LEVELS .................................................................                                 2
MAPs
IBRD 27175 Hubei Urban Environmental Project (I)
IBRD 27250 Hubei Urban Environmental Project (II)






- 1 -
1. URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT,
A. URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS
1.1   The mid-1970s loss to pollution of a major urban raw water supply source near
Beijing first drew China's attention to the damage pollution could cause. Over the
ensuing 20 years China has developed an environmental protection system employing a
broad set of control instruments administered through environmental protection bureaus
now found in all cities and virtually all rural counties. This experience led China to
develop a national environmental action plan to coordinate domestic environmental
improvement efforts. China has also been a responsive partner in international efforts to
control pollution and was one of the first countries to develop their Agenda 21 program
after the Rio conference.
1.2   Despite their activism, the Chinese have had mixed success in implementing
environmental policy over the past two decades. Some aspects of the record are quite
good-total suspended particulate (TSP) concentrations have been markedly reduced in
cities in both north and south China (see Figure 1.1) and state-owned enterprise
discharges of toxic metals in wastewater have also fallen substantially. However, even
with reductions in TSPs, ambient concentrations remain above international and Chinese
guidelines in many cities and sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions have not been effectively
constrained (see Figure 1.1). Water pollution continues to grow. The percentage of
urban aquifers deemed polluted has risen from 20 percent in 1983 to 45 percent today. In
the most recently published water quality survey, at least some sections of rivers in 54 of
58 reporting cities failed to meet even the lowest acceptable standard, leaving few
economic uses-except as waste sinks.
1.3   The human cost of these pollutants is high. Over 400 million Chinese live in
cities, a number expected to jump to some 800 million by 2010. Annual premature
deaths in urban China due to TSP are currently estimated at over 150,000. Other
epidemiological work has shown a very strong relationship between outdoor SO2
concentrations and mortality in northern Chinese cities. The health costs of water
pollution are more difficult to measure. But water pollution has forced cities to move to
increasingly distant and more expensive raw water sources, farmers have had to switch
For a detailed discussion please see "China: Environmental Strategy Paper" (Report No. 9669-CHA, April
1992); and "China: Urban Environmental Service Managements' (Report No. 13073-CHA, December
1994).



- 2 -
from irrigation with surface water to pumping groundwater, and fisheries have been
damaged.
Figure 1.1: URBAN TSP AND SO2 LEVELS,
NORTHERN AND SOUTHERN CHINA, 1981-92
TSP Levels: Northern and Southern China, 1981-92
mglm3
1.2
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2                  _
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
- North
-19F- South
- WHO Guideline
SO2 Levels: Northern and Southern China, 1981-92
mgnm3
0.14
0.112
0.10
0.08
0.06
0.04
0.02
0.00          I          I      I      I      I      I         I      I
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
+ North
-1- South
WHO Guidelines
1.4    The reasons for the growing pollution are not difficult to identify. A coal-based
fuel system firing a large stock of inefficient boilers and power plants contributes to air
quality problems, as does widespread dependence on coal stoves for household cooking
and heating. With urban growth and rising personal incomes have come rapid increases
in the volurne of municipal wastewater flows-they grew from 7 billion m annually in
1984 to  13 billion m3 in 1992.  Those came with the growth of in-house water



- 3 -
connections and of washing machines and flush toilets. Industrial wastewater discharges
in urban areas declined over that same period, as reuse and other water-saving techniques
increased water use efficiency. Solid waste generation has also grown rapidly, and only
some 25 percent of the municipal solid waste and nightsoil are disposed of to national
standards. The remainder is dumped at uncovered dumping sites without leachate or gas
control facilities.
1.5   The nature of the discharges affecting the urban environment dictate a mix of
regulatory and investment responses by different levels of government. These have been
discussed in two Bank sector studies, the first analyzing overall environmental
circumstances and policy (China: Environmental Strategy Paper, Report No. 9669-CHA,
April 1992) and the second that specific to the urban sector (China: Urban Environmental
Service Management, Report No. 13073-CHA, December 1994). As described in those
reports, municipal governments must seek an efficient mix of point source control
through regulation and collective treatment of wastes.
B. REGULATION OF POINT SOURCES
1.6   The regulation of point source pollution falls to the National Environmental
Protection Agency (NEPA), as the secretariat of the State Council Environmental
Protection Committee.  NEPA  drafts national regulations and other aspects of
environmental policy for consideration by the State Council and National People's
Congress. NEPA has the power to interpret national environmental regulations and
standards, including those governing the operations of the local environmental protection
bureaus (EPBs) that work at provincial and municipal level. However, NEPA lacks
implementation authority, a power left to local governments and the EPBs under them.
1.7   Provincial governments are authorized to set local environmental standards in the
absence of preemptive national standards, or to impose more stringent standards than
those required by the national govermnent. Provincial EPBs coordinate these local
policies and, in contrast to NEPA, may play a direct role in implementation. However,
the municipal, urban district and county EPBs bear the main burden of enforcement for
both national and provincial regulations. The budgets, personnel appointments, and work
plans of each level EPB derive from the government of that level. To aid quality control,
environmental performance must be reported to the next higher administrative level EPB,
which also sets testing protocols and other performance criteria.
1.8   China's regulatory approach has focused on three instruments: environmental
assessment before approval of new projects; the "three simultaneous" licensing strategy
that requires integration of pollution control in project design, inclusion of the abatement
measures in the actual investment, and proper operation of the abatement equipment; and
a pollution levy fee chargeable against waste streams that have concentrations of'
pollutants above permitted levels. More recently, goverrunents have been authorized to
levy a small charge on wastewater discharges within standards.



1.9   The pollution levy fees fund operation of the environmental protection system.
Local EPBs retain approximately 20 percent of the fees to cover operating costs, while
earmarking the remaining funds to finance pollution abatement in eligible enterprises.
The handling of the earmarked funds has shifted over time from being granted directly
back to the enterprise paying the fee to lending the funds on concessional terms for
eligible pollution control investments.
1.10  NEPA now recognizes two problems with the pollution levy fee system. First,
fees are typically set considerably below the marginal cost of effluent treatment, which
encourages enterprises to pay the fee rather than operate or invest in treatment facilities or
cleaner production technologies. Second, by setting fees on a concentration basis, the
surface water receiving discharges could fail to meet standards even though all
enterprises in a watershed individually meet standards. Conversely, if assimilative
capacity is high and enterprises few, the concentration standard could force compliance
costs far above the damage done by the discharge.
1.11  Two more regulatory issues originate in structural features of the economy. The
first arises from the fact that local governments usually own the major enterprises within
their boundaries, leading to pressures to relax regulation or fee collection in the interest of
employment and profits. The second is that the enterprises operating on the periphery of
cities may have a large impact on municipal environmental quality, yet fall outside
municipal control. This latter problem is particularly acute with the small-scale tovnship
and village enterprises (TVEs). Individual TVE enforcement costs are high relative to
output, yet in the aggregate TVE pollution has a large impact on the downstream
environment.
1.12  NEPA has a large research and experimentation program underway to icLentify
new approaches to overcome these and other regulatory problems. Among the initiatives
is the use of catchment specific mass-based pollution permits to replace the
concentration-based fees. More generally, NEPA seeks effective market based pollution
control mechanisms to complement the national shift to a market-based econormy and
avoid many of the problems of enterprise-specific regulation.  The Bank supports
NEPA's program through the Environmental Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2522) and
investment projects such as this proposed loan.
C. COLLECTIVE WASTE HANDLING AND TREATMENT
1.13  Urban environmental services, which include wastewater collection and treatment
systems and solid waste collection and treatment, fall under the purview of the
Construction Commissions found in every Chinese city. Overall regulatory guidance and
standard setting is provided by the Ministry of Construction and the provincial
Construction Bureaus. The Ministry and Bureaus set national and provincial policy for
urban and regional planning, infrastructure development planning, and facility operating
standards. They also specify financial accounting procedures and goals. Based on those
policies and standards, the municipal commissions provide or regulate providers of the



- 5 -
actual service. The municipal commissions are typically among the largest and most
powerful of the municipal administrative bodies, having under them bureaus or
companies directly providing key urban services.
1.14  Chinese cities are characterized by a good correspondence between expenditure
responsibility and control over revenue. This sets them apart from cities in many
developing countries, which have been characterized by inadequate funding to meet
mandated services. Chinese cities also tend to have well-staffed administrations, with
their broad control over the local economy making them an attractive employer. These
advantages have helped China achieve piped water supply to nearly 90 percent of all
urban residents, but has not automatically led to high levels of service in every field. The
low level of adequate solid waste disposal was cited earlier and local watercourses
continue to serve as both drains and sewers for nearly 40 percent of the area of Chinese
cities. Wastewater treatment levels are very low, with only 4.5 percent of municipal
flows treated in 1992. Cities have given priority to water supply, roads, and enterprise
investment over environmental services. Yet rapidly growing problems with raw water
quality are forcing recognition across cities that wastes need to be adequately handled.
1.15  The major policy problem identified in China: Urban Environmental Service
Management was the failure to charge, or charge adequately, for environmental services.
Although cities have long charged for water delivery, residential wastewater charges are
virtually unknown, while enterprise charges have been rare, and where collected tar
below operating needs. Solid waste collection fees are more often charged, but those
services still require substantial subsidies. An important consequence of this failure to
charge adequate user fees is that service investment programs have failed to meet goals
due to lack of finance. The Ministry of Construction estimates that two thirds of the
municipal wastewater treatment plants either do not operate, or operate far below
capacity, due to lack of funds. And, when users do not have to pay they have no
incentive to reduce waste volumes. This creates the need for larger service systems when
they are provided.
D. BANK GROUP SECTOR STRATEGY
1.16  The Bank Group highlighted enhancing environmental protection and alleviating
infrastructure bottlenecks as two of the four areas of concentration under the China
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in June 1995. The Bank
Group's close collaboration with the Chinese government covers both the regulatory and
service provision  aspects of urban  environtnental management.   The China.
Environmental Strategy Paper sector study led to the Environmental Technical
Assistance Project noted earlier, which assists NEPA in its efforts to find more efficient
regulatory methods, improve staff capabilities, and bolster environmental monitoring.
That project complements Bank-administered but Japanese Government-financed
technical assistance to NEPA covering (a) the environmental impact assessment process;
(b) waste minimization and pollution control in rural industries; (c) hazardous/toxic waste
management; (d) economic/financial mechanisms for environmental management; and



- 6 -
(e) environmental information management systems. The Global Environmental Facility
has supported studies and projects on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the loss
of biodiversity in China,and reduced pollution in internatina water. The Montreal
Protocol Fund has supported a large program focused on reducing production of and
ozone-depleting substances. Finally, Beijing Municipality has joined with four other
Asian cities as members of the Metropolitan Environmental Improvement Progran
financed by UNDP and the World Bank.
1.17  In addition to national regulatory assistance, the Bank Group is currently involved
in five urban environmental projects in eight cities, which incorporate policy, financing
and organizational strategies for improved environmental regulation and service delivery
at the provincial and municipal levels.  Another four ongoing investment projects
involving 12 cities include related issues such as municipal water supply and sanitation.
The initial round of projects focused on China's largest cities-Shanghai, Beijing, and
Tianjin-and those located primarily in the wealthier northeast and coastal provinces.
Environmental pressures remain very high in those areas and cooperation will continue,
as with the recently appraised Second Shanghai Sewerage Project and the Shandong
Environment Project now being prepared.  However, the proposed Hubei Urban
Environmental Project marks a shift in geographic focus, moving toward inland and
poorer areas. Hubei, a medium income province, is located in central China, while
projects now being prepared in the very poor Yunnan and Guangxi provinces will further
test the feasibility of policy and institutional solutions.
1.18  A review of ongoing Bank Group projects in the sector in China and elsewhere
presents relevant lessons in pollution control and the provision and management of urban
environmental services.
1.19  The Bank experience in pollution control includes the projects in China, as well as
in Mexico, Brazil, India, Indonesia and the Russian Federation. A recent review of Bank
experience (Industry and Environment: Patterns in World Bank Lending) emphasizes the
need for political commitment, clear standards and regulations, incentives to comply, and
institutional capability to monitor and enforce standards. When industrial pollution
abatement subloans are involved, the following conditions increase likelihood of success:
a profitable and growing industrial sector, flexibility in choice of technology, availability
of funds at close-to-market terms, and targeting on sources that can yield significant
improvement in the ambient environment. The pollution abatement component draws on
these lessons and those in the two recent environmental sector studies. The latter stress
issues of political commitment, appropriate standards and incentives, and institutional
monitoring and enforcement capabilities. This project addresses those issues through an
environmental improvement action plan to strengthen the provincial and municipal EPBs
in Hubei to maximize project impact beyond the directly benefiting municipalities.
1.20  Bankwide municipal management sector work (Urban Service Delivery: Finding
the Right Incentives) emphasizes the need to properly assign functional responsibilities
and link revenue to expenditures.  In China's case, environmental services are



- 7 -
appropriately provided at the municipal level, where a high percentage of government
revenue is also captured. China: Urban Environmental Service Management concludes
that the major failing in environmental services has been dependence on municipal
budget transfers to fund services, while greater reliance on user charges would be
affordable, induce resource conservation, and create a more dependable income stream.
For that reason, increasing tariffs has been a major focal point of the policy dialogue in
this project. This responds, too, to a major finding in the OED review of Bank water and
sanitation projects (Water Supply and Sanitation Projects: The Bank Experience 1967-
1989), wherein physical performance was generally good, but sustaining financial
viability and overall sectoral development was less successful. Adequate sector revenues
have been so crucial to successful operation of these investments that the Bank now sees the
needed tariff structures as the major sign of municipal commitment and therefore asks for
initial adjustments to be made during project processing. The proposed project follows this
model.
1.21  This project thus responds to Bank experience and CAS objectives, first through
an improved regulatory environment, reduction of current pollution loads, and protection
of critical water and land resources, and second through commercialization of operating
agencies, improved tariff policy, and modem operating techniques. The Bank's strategy
flows from and supports China's Environmental Action Plan and Agenda 21, which
provide the basis for joint Government and Bank action in the environmental sector,
especially in regard to the urban environment. Finally, the provincial focus recognizes
the effective decentralization of regulatory and investment authority in China, and draws
on local political power and commitment to induce wider use of the solutions
demonstrated under the project.



- 8 -
2. THE PROJECT AREA
A. EXISTING ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS
2.1    Hubei Province, located in the mid-Yangtze River basin, supports a population of
55 million in an area roughly one third the size of France. Some 15 million people live in
Hubei's 31 cities, which are concentrated along the Han and Yangtze Rivers. Wuhan, the
provincial capital and China's fifth largest city with 3.9 million people, sits at the
confluence of the Han and Yangtze. The river systems have contributed to low transport
costs and good market access, which in turn have fostered 40 years of industrial and
commercial development at the national average pace. Hubei now ranks fourteenth
amnong the 30 provinces in per capita national income.
2.2   Hubei's industrial structure, based on steel, nonferrous metals, pulp and paper,
cement, and fertilizer and other chemicals, is one that demands relatively high investment
to control pollution. However, much of the plant and equipment predates China's and
Hubei's concern with environmental impacts. As a result, industrial air and water
pollution abatement faces an estimated investment backlog of several billion yuan to
bring plants into full compliance with existing discharge standards. Complicating the
compliance problem, many highly polluting plants are sited in heavily populated areas,
the result of a now discarded strategy to minimize infrastructure investment by colocating
industry with worker housing and social services. Polluting enterprises now pay some
Y 120 million ($14.3 million) annually in pollution levy fees. These fees, recycled as
earmarked pollution control investments, fall far short of the pollution abatement
financing requirements.
2.3    Municipal environmental services have also lagged. Sanitary landfills began
replacing uncontrolled dumping only in the last four years. By the early 1 990s, sewerage
systems captured only half of urban Hubei's wastewater (and only 7.2 percent c,f total
urban flows were treated, most of those at source by urban industries). The large average
annual flows in the Han (1,230 m3/sec) and Yangtze (23,800 m3/sec) provide excellent
dilution of urban and agricultural wastewater, but groundwater, lakes and smaller rivers
have not fared so well in the face of untreated industrial and domestic waste effluent
totaling about 2.7 billion m3/year. Industrial discharges currently account for about
58 percent of the total, although in line with national experience this proportion is
declining as water use quotas and recycling requirements hold industrial effluent volumes
steady. Also mirroring national experience, domestic waste discharges are increasing as
rapidly as 15 percent annually. Many urban lakes and rivers have become little more than
wastewater conveyors and sinks, with ambient water quality consistently below the



Chinese standard for human contact. Air pollution in several cities ranks among the
worst in China.
2.4   The Central Government and Hubei Province have requested World Bank and
bilateral assistance to address these problems. Hubei Province identified four cities
which it considered were in urgent need of urban environmental service investments.
Three of these cities-Wuhan, Huangshi, and Yichang-are on the Yangtze River; the
fourth-Xiangfan-is on the Han River (see Annex 1). Major air polluters in an
additional two cities, Ezhou and Jingmen, were identified as creating particularly serious
damage. These six cities account for 60 percent of Hubei's urban population and
73 percent of the urban wastewater, 72 percent of TSP, and 82 percent of urban solid
waste loads in the province. Hubei Province and its cities know the major sources of
pollution, track their impact on the ambient environment, and have developed plans to
ameliorate their damage. Annual, five-year, and, for industry, 10-year abatement and
investment plans have been developed that incorporate regulatory, institutional, and
investment responses
B. REGULATORY STRATEGIES
2.5    Hubei Province and the Hubei Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau
(HEPB) have developed an Environmental Improvement Action Plan (see Annex 11) that
relies on:
*     regulatory instruments
*     financial disincentives
*     positive financial incentives
*     research and training
2.6   The main regulatory instruments are those of environmental assessment,
licensing, and fees for excess discharges described earlier. The province has, in addition,
decided to move from concentration-based to mass-based discharge control, as a means of
better matching discharges to assimilative capacity. Successful implementation of the
mass-based discharge program has been established as a key indicator of regulatory
innovation. The time-based implementation plan will be matched by a research program
to track effectiveness of this new approach.
2.7   Financial disincentives are based on the pollution fee levied on excess discharges.
The action plan takes collection rates of the levy fee as a key measure of regulatory
efficiency. Current collections amount to about 40 percent of estimated obligations, a
seemingly low rate, but in line with national experience. The province proposes to
increase the collection rate by 50 percent over tive years.  Success on both counts
depends on the commitment of provincial and city political leaders, who must back the
EPBs in their attempts to control pollution.



- 10-
2.8    While levy fee payment acts as a disincentive to polluters, availability of
earmarked pollution abatement funds can be structured to provide a positive incentive for
cleaner production. Hubei has joined other provinces in shifting the earmarked pollution
levy fees from a grant to loan system. The loan funds remain under the control of the
municipal and county EPBs, with as yet few attempts to improve procedures under which
enterprises gain use of the funds or have that use evaluated. In many cases, the funds
automatically flow back to the paying enterprise, which prevents their systematic
application to the most serious pollution problems. The provincial EPB now seeks
provincial government support for shifting a portion of the pollution levy fees to a Hubei
Environmental Pollution Control Fund (HEPCF). The Fund would experiment with
improved targeting and evaluation procedures while targeting loans to the previously
neglected small-scale enterprise sector. They also seek project participation in this Fund
through a $5 million loan, which would parallel efforts under Bank-supported projects in
other provinces.
2.9    To further strengthen enterprise financial incentives for meeting mandated
pollution control goals, the province sought to include a line of credit for industrial
pollution control within the proposed project. With a proposed $45 million allocation,
the line of credit would provide a fund three times the size of the annual pollution levy
fee collections. Eligibility for the line of credit was restricted in the first instance to the
117 most polluting industrial enterprises in Hubei, which are responsible for over
60 percent of Hubei's industrial pollution. These enterprises were then evaluated on the
toxicity of their pollutants and the population within the catchment affected by the
pollution. The top-ranked firms were then subject to a simple economic screening that
eliminated (a) all enterprises that had a negative net worth and were losing money and
(b) any enterprise whose abatement strategy depended on production of a commodity line
in which the enterprise had no prior experience.  With priority based on their
environmental impact, remaining firms were then eligible for more thorough technical,
financial, and economic appraisal, which, if satisfactory, would give them access to the
line of credit. The line of credit would be limited to financing goods and equipment.
Line-of-credit terms would include a substantial positive real interest rate, but a longer
repayment period than normally available in Chinese commercial loans. The longer
repayment period would be key to feasible financing plans and speed earlier resolution of
some major pollution problems.
2.10   Enterprises whose profit levels will not support the major pollution control
investments many of them need present a particular challenge for the provincial and
municipal governments. The province annually identifies those polluters for whom
regulatory sanctions and earmarked or other loan funds alone will not induce compliance,
then must decide whether to shut them down or identify sources of capital to finance
process change or end-of-pipe treatment. This important aspect of the Action Plan poses
some of the greatest difficulties, as it is intimately linked with overall state-owned
enterprise reform. With enterprises now bearing many of the social security obligations
that will be borne or managed by the state after the transition, plant closing woulcd leave
workers with neither the security of their jobs nor the protection of labor insurance



- II -
programs. The annual provincial program recognizes that solutions may be beyond
municipal resources and therefore takes the lead in developing solutions to exemplary
problems.
2.11   Research and training complement the above efforts. The planned research on
mass-based discharge license effectiveness has been noted earlier. Other topics for
analysis include the contribution of rural enterprise to provincial pollution loads (as a first
step to improving regulation of that sector) and low cost interventions for pollution
control in the small-scale paper and chemical industries. The training program would
help EPB staff at the provincial and municipal level gain the skills needed to improve
their work. The project includes a technical assistance component designed to support
Hubei's implementation of the Action Plan. The technical assistance package would
provide funds for the research program and to allow an expanded training program,
especially in areas where the HEPB could take advantage of foreign experience and
expertise. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Hubei Provincial
Government (HPG) would (a) carry out the agreed Environmental Improvement Action
Plan, including annual improvements in pollution levy fee collection efficiency, meeting
the discharge permit implementation timetable; completing the agreed research
program; and implementing the staff training program; and (b) report to the Bank, not
later than June 30 at each year, on progress in meeting Plan goals and additional actions
to be taken to implement the Plan.. Technical assistance for this effort will be provided
through the proposed loan/credit [para. 3.3(d)].
C. INSTITUTIONAL STRATEGIES
2.12  Efficient and sustainable delivery of municipal environmental services depends on
the establishment of appropriate institutions to manage those services. Current practice in
Hubei cities, as in most of China, relies on city owned, but financially autonomous,
enterprises to run water systems, while city government bureaus relying on normal
budgetary transfers manage wastewater collection and treatment and solid waste
collection and disposal. Those organizational choices match traditional financial goals,
which sought self-sufficiency for water companies but considered wastewater and solid
waste disposal to be welfare services.
2.13  The traditional organization and practices in wastewater and solid waste make it
very difficult for Hubei's cities to charge the tariffs needed if polluters are to pay the full
cost of abatement services and funds for service expansion are to be found.  The
managing bureaus do not depreciate fixed assets, so cannot identify the true cost of
service provision. Nor do their accounting practices provide managers with the financial
tools needed for efficient management. An important element of the proposed project
would be the establishment, in three project cities, of financially autonomous wastewater
agencies, organized under enterprise accounting rules, able to charge tariffs adequate to
cover operating and maintenance costs and the greater of debt service or depreciation.
Environmental sanitation bureaus, which handle solid wastes, face a more difficult
challenge in efficiently identifying and billing household users. For these bureaus, cost



- 12 -
accounting techniques would be introduced that permit them to identify the cost of
operations, and they would be expected to charge those full costs to the commercial and
industrial users of their services.
2.14  The proposed institutional innovations under this project move provision of these
important environmental services much closer to an enterprise model than the current
government bureau model. After the changes have been implemented, for the first time
municipal managers will be able to know the cost of the different components of service
provision and therefore be in a position to decide whether further innovations, such as
contracting with independent operators for some or all of the services would promise
further efficiency gains.  The details of the institutional goals and structures are
elaborated in Chapter 4.
2.15  The project provides wide-ranging technical assistance to the new operating
agencies. One technical assistance package (Package A) would help the implementing
agencies introduce new accounting systems and management information systems. A
second element of that package would build on the accounting outputs to design tariff
structures to meet the new financial goals. A second package (Package B) would focus
on physical operation of the new and existing services. This would range from system
operator training to investment planning for system expansion (see para. 3.3).
D. INVESTMENT STRATEGIES
2.16  The policy and institutional initiatives must be accompanied by investment in
environmental services if environmental quality gains are to be had.  Each of the
participating cities has ambitious long run sector investment programs and each is
seriously constrained by intersectoral competition for current revenues. The following
discussion lays out the background to actions in each sector. The actual investment
choices are described in the next chapter and in Annex 2.
2.17  Wastewater Management. The water quality problems of Hubei's cities arise
from untreated, mainly industrial, wastewater discharging to lakes, rivers and streams,
sometimes close to the cities' water supply intakes. While between 80 and 90 percent of
Hubei's urban population are served by septic tanks, which capture most solids and
provide some treatment, where sewerage systems are absent, the liquid fraction
discharges to the nearest natural drainage. When wastewater flows do enter sewerage
systems, these are typically combined systems that also handle stormwater. Three cities
would benefit from wastewater investments under the project. Only two of the cities-
Huangshi and Wuhan-now  have treatment plants for municipal sewerage.  The
Huangshi plant, which treats 70 percent industrial waste and 30 percent domestic waste,
operates at about 70 percent of capacity and treats less than 20 percent of total flows. The
recently commissioned Wuhan plant, which serves part of one city district, has operated
sporadically due to lack of operating funds.
2.18  The financial problems underlying treatment plant operation will be addressed
through the policy and institutional development activities already described. Collection



- 13 -
system expansion will rely on conventional sewers, as lower cost alternatives are not
available in these densely populated areas. Substantial investments are needed simply to
divert wastewater from the rivers and lakes within the built-up areas and this will be the
focus of investments under the proposed project.  With sewers in place, treatment
becomes possible, but high investment costs prevent treatment goals to be fully realized
at this stage. The treatment strategy under the project is to provide primary treatment
where discharges continue to lakes and preliminary treatment for discharges to the Han or
Yangtze, with their high assimilative capacity.  During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from HPG that it would cause Huangshi, Wuhan and Xiangfan Municipalities,
by December 31, 1996, to develop and thereafter implement a time-bound Action Plan
acceptable to the Bank for the connection to their municipal sewerage system of all
wastewater discharge from buildings and septic tanks located within 100 meters of said
systein.
2.19 Solid Waste and Nightsoil Management. Few municipal landfills in Hubei
meet accepted national or international standards. In 1991, only 5 percent of municipal
wastes were deemed to have been safely disposed of. The remainder went to dumps
providing no protection from leachate contamination for underlying aquifers or local
surface waters, nor any collection and flaring of landfill gas. Solid waste leachate and the
migration of polluted surface waters share blame for the high levels of urban aquifer
contamination in Hubei. The landfill gas contributes to global warming, but the lack of
collection systems also poses the hazard of uncontrolled burning in the dumps. On the
positive side, Chinese, and Hubei's, cities do a good job of collecting solid waste.
Although unsightly and malodorous collection points are a major source of citizen
environmental complaint, frequent garbage collection succeeds in minimizing potential
health hazards from this source. Engineering analysis of collection and transfer activities
suggests that economies can be had from reduced handling and transport in large
compression vehicles rather than the common practice of using smaller, open trucks. The
proposed project helps four cities construct landfills meeting national and international
standards. Technical assistance under the project will help them implement accounting
systems that for the first time allow them to track costs by system component. This, in
turn, will allow them to evaluate alternative strategies for waste collection, using the
experience with the new vehicle types purchased under the project.
2.20  Environmental sanitation bureaus also take responsibility for municipal nightsoil
handling. In the four project cities, some 30 percent of the urban population have access
only to dry latrines or public toilets. Those, and the septic tanks that collect the solids
from private flush toilets, must be pumped at regular intervals. Until the early 1980s.
suburban farms had a high demand for nightsoil and many rural collectives removed
urban nightsoil at no cost to the city. More recently, broad availability of chemical
fertilizer has led to diminishing nightsoil use in rural communities and increased nightsoil
handling costs to cities. Cities now deliver the nightsoil to rural dumping stations, where
good practice relies on fermentation to kill parasites, bacteria and viruses before use in
agriculture and aquaculture. However, current dumping station designs have not met
sanitation targets. The proposed project would support existing city programs to replace



- 14 -
public dry latrines with flush latrines and pilot improved septic tank and dumping station
designs.
E. PROJECT FORMULATION
2.21  Recognizing the pressures on Hubei's urban environment, the Central
Government has approached the World Bank for support in funding a long-term
investment program in environmental protection in the province. At the same time, HPG
recognizes environmental protection as a prerequisite for long-term economic growth and
gives investments in environmental protection high priority. During project preparation it
was found that most municipal planning was done only up to the year 2000. Given that
some of the proposed project investments would not be completed until about 2002,
planning under this project used growth projections to the year 2010 in siting and sizing
investments.
2.22  HPG directed the Hubei Urban Environment Project Office (HUEPO-see para.
4.1), to coordinate the preparation, and subsequently monitor the execution, of the
proposed project. HUEPO has retained foreign and local consultants and local design
institutes to help prepare the project.  The collaboration of foreign consultants in
preparation work for the proposed wastewater and water quality monitoring components
was financed by the Australian Agency for International Development (AUSAID) and the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). The Japanese Policy and Human
Resources Development (PHRD) fund supported preparation of the solid waste and
industrial pollution control components. The proposed wastes management component
preparation was assisted through the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
funded Regional Water Supply and Sanitation Group-East Asia Program.



- 15-
3. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   The project is part of a phased development program designed to improve
environmental conditions and management in Hubei Province. Specific objectives of this
project are to: (a) put in place institutions and policies able to sustain progress on the
provincial plan for environmental improvement; (b) improve wastewater collection and
treatment in three cities, thus maintaining or raising surface water quality to levels
suitable for municipal supply, agricultural, or other purposes; (c) improve wastes
management in four cities, thus protecting water and land quality; and (d) identify the
highest-impact industrial air and water polluters and significantly reduce their pollution.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.2   The project would support policy and institutional innovation, and provide
physical works for wastewater handling, air pollution control, and solid waste
management. A detailed description of proposed investments is given in Annex 2. A
summary description of the various project components is given below. The indicated
costs include physical and price contingencies.
(a)   Wastewater Management in Huangshi, Wuhan and Xiangfan, comprising
sewer systems, pump stations, and wastewater treatment facilities.
$184.5 million
(b)   Municipal Wastes Management in Huangshi, Wuhan, Xiangftn and
Yichang, comprising sanitary landfill development, waste transfer facilities,
vehicles and equipment.                          $37.1 million
(c)   Industrial Pollution Control. A line of credit to assist selected large-scale
industrial enterprises to carry out works for pollution abatement in order to
comply with environmental regulations.           $130.5 million
(d)   Hubei Environmental Pollution Control Fund. A revolving fund, to
finance high environmental impact investments in small-scale industry,
supporting the core prograrn in air and wastewater management.
$5.0 million



- 16-
(e)   Water Quality Monitoring and Management in Hubei and Wuhan
Environmental Monitoring Centers, comprising water quality monitoring
technology, data management equipment, and institutional development.
$2.9 million
(f)   Institutional Strengthening through Technical Assistance and Training
for supporting and strengthening project management, HEPB and city EPBs,
financial and municipal utility operations and management, wastewater and
solid waste management, water quality monitoring, feasibility studies,
training and future project preparation.         $10.2 million
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                     $370.2 million
3.3  Institutional development and policy strengthening components [para. 3.2(f)] would
enhance policies and operational experience in environmental protection and wastewater,
municipal solid waste, and nightsoil management. Support to these initiatives has been
grouped into four technical assistance packages-Package A (financial), Package B
(technical), Package C (environmental strengthening) and Package D (other, including
future project preparation), and would comprise:
(a)   training of staff of wastewater and sanitation entities in financial
management and accounting systems, including unit cost accounting,
management information systems, and pricing policies (Package A);
(b)   strengthening overall provincial management and financial practices in
Hubei Province through the introduction of capital budgeting techniques,
analysis of investment alternatives and performance monitoring (Package
A);
(c)   strengthening project management and sector institutions through technical
assistance and training for efficient project implementation (Package B);
(d)   assisting in implementing an Environmental Improvement Action Plan for
strengthening EPB staffs and for the enforcement of pollution regulations
(Package C); and
(e)   providing technical assistance for future project preparation (Package D).
C. PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
3.4   The estimated cost of the project, including contingencies and local duties and
taxes, is Y 3,344.7 million ($370.2 million). The foreign exchange component is Y 952.3
million ($104.7 million), or about 28 percent of project costs. Local customs duties and
taxes are estimated at Y 110.8 million ($11.65 million). The total financing required,
which includes $15.0 million of interest during construction, is $385.2 million (Y 3,481.2



- 17-
million). A summary of cost estimates is given in Table 3.1 below. Detailed cost
estimates are provided in Annex 3.
3.5   Base cost estimates are based on preliminary engineering designs, and reflect
price levels expected to prevail in December 1995, based on current inflation rates. The
unit prices were derived from the following sources: (a) quotations obtained from
manufacturers and suppliers; (b) prices of goods and works from recent contracts; and
(c) construction costs published by the central and Hubei Governments, all adjusted for
inflation. Physical contingencies of 15 percent have been applied to base costs for most
components, except for vehicles and mechanical equipment of the wastes management
component, where 10 percent has been adopted to reflect higher confidence in the
estimated costs of this component. Construction Management and Services costs of
2.5 percent of the civil works and materials and equipment costs of the wastewater
cormponent, and 1.25 percent of the civil works of the wastes management component,
have been included in the project cost estimates. Project management and engineering
overhead costs of 12 percent are also included.
3.6   Price contingencies have been applied to expenditures at projected global foreign
and local inflation rates. In view of the large variation between foreign and local price
contingency projections, the $/Yuan exchange rate has been assumed to vary in order to
maintain purchasing power parity. The inflation rate projections used are as follows:
Parameter        1996    1997    1998    1999        2000      2001      2002
Foreign            2.6     2.6      2.6      2.6       2.6      2.6       2.6
Local             10.6     8.5      7.0      6.5       6.2      6.2       6.2



- 18-
Table 3.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
%      % Total
(Y Million)             (S Million)        Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign   Total   Local Foreign Total  Exchange   Costs
Huangshi
Wastes Mgmt                       28.5      4.5      33.0    3.4    0.5    3.9         14         1
WastewaterMgmt                    68.0     16.1      84.1    8.1    1.9   10.0         19         3
Subtotal                       96.4      20.7    117.1   11.5    2.5   13.9         18         4
Wuhan
Wastes Mgmt                      114.8     16.4    131.3   13.7    2.0   15.6          13         5
WastewaterMgmt                  623.5    271.0    894.6   74.2   32.3  106.5           30        32
Subtotal                      738.8    287.5  1,025.8   87.9   34.2  122.1          28        36
Xiangfan
Wastes Mgmt                       36.3      4.0      40.4    4.3    0.5    4.8         10         I
Wastewater Mgmt                  270.3     70.5    340.8   32.2    8.4   40.6          21        12
Subtotal                      306.7     74.5    381.2   36.5    8.9   45.4          20        14
Yichang
Wastes Mgmt                      56.6       9.1     65.7    6.7    1.1    7.8         14         2
Subtotal                       56.6       9.1     65.7    6.7    1.1    7.8         14         2
Technical Asst & Trg                 15.2      54.9     70.1    1.8    6.5    8.3         78         2
Industrial Pollution Control La     799.2    339.3  1,138.5   95.1   40.4  135.5          30        40
Water Quality Monitoring
Hubei Monitoring Center            8.9      5.1      14.0    1.1    0.6    1.7        37          -
Wuhan Monitoring Center            5.3      1.4       6.7    0.6    0.2    0.8        21          -
Subtotal                       14.2       6.5     20.7    1.7    0.8    2.5         32         1
Total BASELINE COSTS Lb            2-026.6    22251  2819.1  24I1    241  356i            2a         0Q0
Physical Contingencies           143.9     59.1    203.0   17.0    7 0   24.1         29          7
PriceContingencies              221.9    100.7    322.6    7.2    3.3   10.5           31         3
Total PROJECT COSTS                2392.4    25232  3344:7  265   10Q42  372               21        110
lntcrest during construetionL&     0.0    136.5    136.5    0.0   15.0   15.0
Total FINANCING REQUIRED           23924  1J088    3481.  265  11[97  3852
la The sums include allocations for both the line of credit and HEPCF.
Lb Includes cost of land (S20.0 million, or Y 170.4 million).
L Interest during construction is based on onlending rates for projected disbursements of loan/credit proceeds,
and payment of commitment charges.



- 19 -
D. FINANCING PLAN
3.7   The financing plan for the project is shown in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Source                         Local       Foreign      Total     Percentage
Hubei Government, Municipal     134.7        15.0        149.7        38.9
Governments and Enterprises
Industrial enterprises           85.5         0.0         85.5        22.2
IBRD/IDA                         45.3       104.7        150.0        38.9
Total Financing Required a   2655        119.7        38 2         I00.
/a Includes interest during construction (IDC) of $15.0 million.
3.8   The IBRD loan and IDA credit would be made to the People's Republic of China.
The IBRD loan of $125 million equivalent would be for a 20-year tenn, including a five
year grace period on standard Bank terms. The IDA credit of SDR 16.8 million ($25
million equivalent) would be for a 35-year term, including a 10-year grace period on
standard Association terms. The proceeds of the loan and credit would be made available
to HP on the following terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank/IDA: the loan at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate, for a 20-year period including a five-year grace
period, and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent per year, and the credit at the
Association's standard service charge for a 20-year period, including a five-year grace
period, and a commitment charge of 0.50 percent per year. Hubei Province would bear the
foreign exchange risk. HP would make industrial pollution control subloans available to
industrial enterprises at a rate equal to the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus a
spread of not less than 1.5 percent per year, with the enterprises bearing a commitment
charge of 0.75 percent and the foreign exchange risk; the grace period would be up to 3
years, and the maturity up to 12 years. HP would allocate part of the proceeds to the
municipalities on the same terms as received from China. The municipalities would
onlend the proceeds of the loan/credit allocated to them to the wastewater entities for 15
years, including a five year grace period, at a rate equal to the Bank's standard variable
interest rate, with the entities bearing the commitment charges and the foreign exchange
risk. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
3.9   Execution  of subsidiary  loan  agreements  between  the  participating
muunicipalities and their wastewater entities, satisfactory to the Bank/lIDA, is a condition
of effectiveness. A separate Project Agreement, including operational, financial and
monitoring covenants, would be executed between HP and IBRD/IDA.



- 20 -
3.10  About $5.0 million equivalent of loan/credit proceeds would be onlent by HP
from a revolving credit facility (the Hubei Environmental Pollution Control Fund-
HEPCF) to participating enterprises for eligible small scale pollution control subprojects.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a) HP, through the HEPCF, would
onlend to participating enterprises at a rate equal to the Bank's standard variable
interest rate plus a spread of not less than 1.5 percent per year, with the enterprises
bearing a commitment charge of 0.75percent and the foreign exchange risk. The
maturity would be for three to five years, including a one to two year period of grace.
Subloan repayments would be recycledfor additional pollution control subprojects to the
extent not needed to repay China; and (b) HP would, through HEPB allocate to HEPCF
a total of about Y 45.0 million of pollution levy fees over the three fiscal years
commencing 1996, annually depositing with HEPCF at least Y 1S million by June 30 of
each such year.
E. PROCUREMENT
3.11  Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the Bank/IDA would be
agreed upon with HPG. All procurement activities will be organized through the
International Tendering Company of China National Instruments Import and Export
Corporation (CNIITC), which has been contracted by HUEPO (para. 4.1) to carry out the
work. CNIITC is an experienced and competent procurement agent which is familiar
with, and has had recent and relevant experience in international competitive bidding
(ICB) work on Bank/IDA-financed projects. The tender documents to be used in the
project would be based on the standard bid documents prepared by the Ministry of
Finance and approved by the World Bank Group. All civil works contracts would be
grouped whenever practical into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $10
million or more each, and contracts for goods shall be grouped into packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more each, to attract maximum international
competition.  Prequalification of bidders would be undertaken for all civil works
contracts with an estimated value over $6.0 million equivalent each. Annex 4 lists the
Schedule of Contract Packages and the method of procurement, and Table 3.3
summarizes the procurement categories and the expected procurement methods. The
contract packages and the method of procurement have been agreed with HUEPO.
3.12  Civil Works.  Excluding the industrial and environmental pollution control
components, there is a total of about $1 14.6 million of civil works of which about $44.2
million (39 percent) would be procured using ICB procedures.  Qualified domestic
contractors under ICB will be eligible for a 7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation, in
accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines-January 1995. ICB procedures
would be used for all civil works contracts of estimated value of $10.0 million or more (i.e.,
three contracts). All remaining civil works are too small, scattered or scheduled too far
apart to be packaged to be of interest to foreign firms. Of the remaining works, about $69.5
million would be awarded through national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures,
acceptable to the Bank/IDA.  The NCB procedures recently promulgated by the
Government have been reviewed and approved by the World Bank Group. Interested



- 21 -
foreign bidders would be allowed to bid for NCB contracts. The Water Quality Monitoring
component works would not be Bank financed.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million, including contingencies)
Procurement Methods
Project Component                ICB     NCB    OtherLa  NBFLb    Total
Civil Works                      44.2    69.5       0.0      0.9   114.6
(18.0)   (28.2)    (0.0)    (0.0)   (46.2)
Equipment & Materials            55.2      1.0      1.6      3.8    61.6
(41.6)    (0.8)    (0.4)    (0.0)   (42.8)
Industrial Pollution Control      0.0      0.0   135.5       0.0   135.5
(0.0)    (0.0)   (50.0)    (0.0)   (50.0)
Other
Land Acquisition                  0.0      0.0      0.0     20.0    20.0
(0.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)   (0-0)    (0.0)
Institutional Development &       0.0      0.0    10.2       0.0    10.2
Training                        (0.0)    (0.0)    (8.0)     (0.0)    (8.0)
Construction Management Services    0.0    0.0      3.9      0.0      3.9
(0.0)    (0.0)    (3.0)    (0.0)    (3.0)
Supervision & Project Management    0.0    0.0      0.0     24.4    24.4
(0.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)    (0.0)
Total                          2i99.   695    1512        491   3702
La Other procurement methods include those under the line of credit through an agent
bank, intemational and national shopping, consultant services (recruited in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines) and training.
lb NBF = Not Bank/IDA-financed.
/c The Industrial Pollution Control Component would be disbursed through (a) a line-of-
credit and (b) subloans of HP's revolving credit facility.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by IBRD/IDA.



- 22 -
3.13  Equipment and Materials. Excluding the industrial and environmental pollution
control components, there is a total of about $61.6 million of equipment and materials in the
project, of which about $55.2 million (90 percent) would be procured using ICB
procedures. Qualified domestic bidders will be eligible for a preference in bid evaluation of
15 percent or customs duties and import tax payable by a non exempt importer, whichever
is less. All equipment and materials with individual contract values of $200,000 or more
equivalent would be procured using ICB procedures.
3.14  Equipment and materials with individual contract values less than $200,000
equivalent would be awarded using NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank, up to an
aggregate amount of $1.0 million. Contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent up to
an aggregate amount of $1.65 million, would be procured through international or
national shopping procedures with at least three price quotations.
3.15  Industrial  Pollution  Control  Component.    Under  the  line-of-credit
subcomponent, the People's Construction Bank of China (PCBC), Hubei Branch, would
review the contract packages and the methods of procurement.  The procedures for
procurement would be the same as those for Bank Group-financed PCBC projects which
the Bank has reviewed and found satisfactory. Individual contracts with an estimated value
of $5 million or more would be procured under ICB. Contracts below $5 million and not
less than $200,000 would be awarded through International Shopping, after evaluation and
comparison of quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers from at least three
countries. Contracts below $200,000 would be awarded through National Shopping, after
evaluation and comparison of quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers.
These contracts would be subject to post-review by the Bank Group, and PCBC would
maintain all relevant documents in its records for this purpose.
3.16  Environmental  Pollution  Control Component.    Under the  HEPCF
subcomponent, in which no loan will exceed $500,000, contracts for equipment and
materials financed through HEPCF subloans would be awarded after solicitation and
evaluation through international or national shopping procedures of at least three written
price quotations from eligible suppliers. This is consistent with procedures that the Bank
Group has reviewed and found satisfactory.
3.17  Technical Assistance and Training. All consultants to be retained under the
project would be recruited in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency-
August, 1981". National consultants and counterpart staff would be engaged or assigned by
the concerned agencies of Hubei Province. Consultants have already been retained for
project preparation and design (para. 2.22). At negotiations, HP provided a copy of a
signed contract, acceptable to the Bank/IDA, with a consultant firmn for Package B
(construction management and supervision of the works to be constructed under the project,
and sector institutional strengthening). HPG anticipates signing a contract with a consulting
firm for Package A (financial) by loan effectiveness. The Terms of Reference for these
consultancy services are in the Project File (Annex 15).



- 23 -
3.18  Review of Bid Documents and Contracts. All civil works packages in excess of
$2 million (about 14 contracts, 84 percent of the works), and all equipment and materials
contracts of $1 million or more (about eight contracts, 83 percent of the equipment and
materials), would be subject to the Bank/IDA's normal prior review, including
prequalification, notice of invitation to bid, bid documents, bid evaluation and contracts.
The threshold for prior review of contracts for consultants would be $100,000 equivalent
for firms and $50,000 for individual contracts. For contracts below the threshold, prior
review will apply to terms of reference, single source selection, assignments of a critical
nature, and any amendments that would raise contract value above the prior review
threshold. Other contracts would also be subject to selective post-award review.
3.19  Prequalification.  The Standard Prequalification Document for the People's
Republic of China, issued by the Ministry of Finance and approved by the World Bank
Group, would be used for preparing the invitation document. HUEPO and CNIITC hold
copies of this document (together with standard bidding documents for ICB and NCB
works and goods invitations).
F. DISBURSEMENT
3.20  The proposed IBRD Loan of $125 million and IDA Credit of $25 million
equivalent would be disbursed over a period of about six and a half years, consistent with
the Bank's latest urban sector disbursement profile for China. Disbursements would be
as indicated below.
Amount
Category                            ($ million)         Percent of expenditures
Civil works
(a) For solid waste management in      0.8      40 percent of expenditures
Xiangfan
(b) Other                             40.4      40 percent of expenditures
Goods                                             100 percent of foreign expenditures,
(a) IPC                               45.0       100 percent of local expenditures (ex-
(b) HEPCF                              5.0      factory) and 75 percent of local
(c) Other                             42.8      expenditures for other items procured
locally
Consultant services and training        11.0      100 percent of expenditures
Unallocated                             5.0
iTota                               150



- 24 -
3.21   To expedite disbursements, a Special Account with an authorized allocation of
$8.0 million, representing about four months' average disbursements, would be
established. It would be replenished monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn
down to 50 percent of its initial value, whichever occurs first. Disbursements would be
made against statements of expenditure (SOEs), certified by HUEPO, for: (a) contracts
for (i) civil works valued at less than $2 million; and (ii) equipment and materials costing
less than $1 million equivalent; (b) contracts for consulting services costing less than
$100,000 equivalent for firrns and $50,000 equivalent for individuals; and (c) training.
Documents supporting the SOEs would be retained by HUEPO and made available for
inspection during the course of Bank/IDA supervision missions and external auditors.
All other disbursements will be made against fully documented expenditures.  A
Schedule of Disbursements is given in Annex 5. To facilitate efficient and prompt startup
of the project, continued progress on final design begun during project preparation, and
contruction of access roads and other preparatory works needed to avoid delays,
retroactive financing of up to SDR 7.0 million ($10.5 million equivalent, seven percent of
the value of the loan and credit) would be provided for expenditures incurred after
September 1, 1995, covering initial civil works and goods contracts, and consulting
services. The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001, and, therefore, the
Loan/Credit Closing Date would be June 30, 2002.
3.22   The (a) execution of afinancial agency agreement with a bank, satisfactory to the
Bank/lIDA, for the Jinancial, economic and technical appraisal of suibprojects under the
Industrial Pollution Control Line-of-Credit subcomponent (paras. 4.10-4.11); and
(b) approval, by the Bank, of an operational manual governing HEPCF subloan
processing and approvals, and the execution of an acceptable financial agency
agreement between HEPCF and a bank for HEPCF subloan processing (para. 4.12)
would be conditions of disbursement for the loan/credit proceeds allocated to the
respective Industrical and Environmental Pollution Control components. Completion to
the satisfaction of the Bank/lIDA, of a feasibility study, detailed designs, environmental
assessment (EA), anid a land acquisition and resettlement plan for a proposed landfill in
Xiangfan (para. 4.18) would be a condition of disbursement for the Xiangfan Solid Vaste
component.
G. LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
3.23  Several project components would require the acquisition of land and resettlement
of current users. These include the municipal components in Yichang, Xiangfan,
Huangshi, and Wuhan, and four of the six preidentified applicants for the industrial
pollution control line of credit (para. 4.11). Resettlement impacts include the permanent
relocation of 39 farnilies, the temporary relocation of 137 families, and new employment
for some 996 people. Permanent relocation is spread across four communities and all
households will resettle within their original administrative village boundaries. The
temporary relocation will all occur in Xiangfan Municipality and is estimated to last less
than a month. It is needed to protect householders while a wastewater conveyor trench is
dug adjacent to their houses and the contractor repairs any damage resulting from the



- 25 -
trencling. The employment impact will be spread across several communities. In most
cases, displaced workers will be given new jobs in their current company, or on land or in
companies owned by the collective of which they are currently members. In other cases,
the collective or project unit will take responsibility for placing the affected worker in
suitable outside employment or, if the worker so desires, provide financing for self-
employment. For both housing and employment resettlement, the project agencies have
allocated funds and taken other measures to ensure that resettler's standards of living are
maintained or improved.  A  Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), acceptable to the
Bank/IDA has been received. A summary of the RAP is presented in Annex 6.
3.24   All project cities have experienced, specialized teams responsible for resettlement
administration and the first round of consultation with affected communities has been
completed. The implementation of the RAP will be monitored by the municipal and
provincial project offices in addition to the monitoring obligations assumed by municipal
governments for all involuntary resettlement within their boundaries.  To provide
additional protection to resettler interests, technical assistance funds in Package B (para.
3.3) will be used to finance periodic independent evaluation of the resettlement work. If
not incorporated in the approved RAP, candidates for subloans will be analyzed for
possible resettlement. Where resettlement would occur, a separate RAP, acceptable to the
Bank/IDA, will be a prerequisite for the subloan approval. Once site selection is
contirmede for the Xiangfan landfill, a RAP will be prepared for that site. Any change in
project design will also be analyzed for possible resettlement impact and, if such impacts
exist, the RAP would be amended, in a manner acceptable to the Bank/IDA, as necessary
to reflect such changes. During negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom HPG that it
would carry ouit or cause to be carried out resettlement ofpersons affected by the project
in a manner and according to the Resettlement Action Plan satisfactory to the Bank/IDA.
H. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
3.25   The proposed project would have a positive environmental impact.  It is a
Category A project according to the Operational Directive classification, principally on
account of the four proposed landfills. In accordance with Chinese regulations, an EA
was prepared that covered all project components. The EA was reviewed by HEPB and
the World Bank Group and found to be satisfactory; it is summarized in Annex 7. While
the project would remove substantial pollution loads, some possible side effects have
been identified and mitigative measures developed during the EA process. In particular,
appropriate arrangements have been made for the beneficial use, wherever possible, of
construction spoil, and for the use in agriculture of sludge from wastewater treatment.
Similarly, the siting of wastewater treatment plants minimizes impact upon residential
areas and the discharges are to watercourses where the residual pollution load may be
assimilated without significant detriment to local water quality. Candidates for subloans
or any change in project scope will be analyzed for possible environmental impact.
Where the possibility of adverse impact is identified, an EA will be prepared that meets
Chinese requirements and is satisfactory to the Bank/IDA.  During negotiations,
assurances were obtainedfrom HPG that it would carry out or cause to be carried out, in



- 26 -
a manner satisfactory to the Bank/IDA, the mitigation plans specified in the
Environmental Impact Assessment.
1. PROJECT MONITORING, REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
3.26   The proposed project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 8. Operational
and financial monitoring indicators for the agencies are given in the Finance section
(Chapter 5), and the assumptions to the financial projections are provided in Annex 13.
The format and content of project progress reports and project impact monitoring
indicators and methodology were discussed and confirmed during negotiations.
3.27   Project impact would be monitored with respect to the objectives, for which the
key indicators are summarized below. The expected level of the performnance indicators is
based on timely implementation of the project components summarized in para. 3.2 and
detailed in Annex 2.
Table 3.4: INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1995  1996          1997          1998          1999          2000
EPB
% collection pollution    40    45             50            55            60            65
levy fees
Industries covered by    300   500            800         1,000         1,200         1,500
discharge permits
Wastewater Companies
Tariffs                     -  0.18  2 avg. cost of 2 avg. cost of 2 avg. cost of  2 avg. cost of
m3 treated   m3 treated    m3 treated    m3 treated
Operating ratio             -    <1            <I            <1           <1            <1
Solid Waste Operations
Commercial & industrial     -     -  2 avg. cost of 2 avg. cost of 2 avg. cost of 2 avg. cost of
tariffs (from July 1,                 collections &   collections &   collections &   collections &
1997)                                   treatment     treatment     treatment     treatment



- 27 -
Table 3.5: DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE INDICATORS
1994      1998      1999      2000       2001        2005
baseline
Water Quality L/
Wuhan
East Lake water quality            IV        IV        IV        IV         III         III
Huangshi
Cihu Lake water quality -         <V         <V        <V          V         IV         IV
southern shore
Xiangfan
Qilile River water quality        <V          V         V         IV        IV          III
Xiaoqinghe water quality          <-V         V         V         IV        IV          III
Ezhou
Xingang River water quality        IV        IV        IV        111        III          11
Solid Waste (% disposed to
sanitary landfill or equiv.)
Wuhan                            17%      30%      44%       244%       44%       50%
Huangshi                         18%       25%     37%       237%       37%       50%
Xiangfan                          0%           -    >15%       43%       243%       45%
Yichang                          66%       75%     95%       95%       95%       95%
Air Quality /b
Ezhou                         Class IlI   Class ill   Class 11  >Class 11  >Class 11   >Class 11
[Other areas to be added as IPC components are approved]
>: good as or better than
<: worse than.
L   Water quality: Classes I and I: high quality suitable for drinking water source; Class III: usable for
drinking water after treatment; Class IV: boating, fishing, industrial water supply; Class V: irrigation
and industrial cooling.
/b  Air quality: Class 1: sustained exposure poses no risk to well-being; Class 11: all plants and animals
can attain normal development; Class III: all except sensitive plants and animals can attain normal
development.



- 28 -
Supervision missions will consider a broader set of indicators, including:
(a)    Municipal environmental services:
(i)    Financial and Institutional Development
a.    Implementation of accounting systems that permit financial
goals to be evaluated, and achievement of these goals
(paras. 5.15, 5.17, 5.21, Table 5.2).
b.    Approval by city and province, prior to December 31 of
each year, of tariff increases needed in subsequent year, and
implementation of those tariffs (paras. 5.17, 5.21).
(ii)    Project implementation
a.    Physical progress: comparison of actual versus appraisal
schedules (Annax8).
b.    Technical Assistance: comparison of outputs to terms of
reference requirements (Annex 2).
(iii)    Project Impact
a.    Total volume and percentage of municipal wastewaters
captured by the reticulation system, compared to plan
(Annex 2).
b.    Percentage of wastewater treated  to  standard  before
discharge to surface waters, compared to plan (Annex 2).
c.    Annual review  of quality of surface water at selected
locations versus December 1995 actual.
(b)    Industrial Pollution Control:
(i)    Physical progress: Actual versus appraisal schedules.
(ii)    Effluent quality from the new or upgraded unit compared to 1995
levels.
(iii)    Ambient environmental quality at the original plant site, district,
and city after project and in 1995.
(iv)    If plant relocated, anbient environmental quality at the new site,
district, and city after project and in 1995.



- 29 -
(c)   Environmental Improvement Action Plans:
(i)    Realization of annual goals set out in Plan (AnnexI 11).
(ii)    Research program: timeliness and quality of output compared to
Plan (Annex 1 1).
(iii)    Training program:  timeliness, number trained, and quality of
training compared to Plan (Annex 11).
(d)   Resettlement:
(i)    Comparison of implementation to RAP standards and timing
(Annex 6).
(ii)    Quality of work as shown through independent evaluation
(Annex 6).
3.28  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that quarterly reports on project
progress would be prepared by each implementing agency and consolidated by HUEPO,
then sent to the Bank/IDA by the thirtieth day of January, April, and October of each year,
commencing in January 1996. An annual report due on or about July 30 each year
would integrate the results of the quarterly reports from the preceding 12 months, The
following understanding was obtained during negotiations and recorded in the minutes of
negotiations: that the last progress report of each year would include the latest project
cost estimate and financing plan for the following year, including HP 's draft budget fbr
local counterpart funds. An implementation completion report, reviewing the planned
objectives and the achievements of the project, including costs and benefits derived, and
performance and contribution of all parties associated with project execution, would be
prepared by HP and submitted to the Bank/IDA within six months of the Closing Date.
DIuring negotiations, assurances were obtained that, not later than six months cfter the
('losing Date, or such later date as may be agreed between the HP and the Bank/IDA,
HP would (a) prepare and submit to the Bank/lIDA, a plan for the future operation of the
investments financed under the project; and (b) afford the Bank/lIDA a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views on said plan.
3.29  To facilitate implementation, a Project Launch Workshop would be held in early
1996. Project supervision would monitor impact with respect to the objectives (para.
3.27), and focus on key sector issues such as utility pricing and environmental regulatory
effectiveness.  Bank experience with supervision of the ongoing Liaoning Urban
Infrastructure and Environment Projects, which, like the proposed project, are multicity
projects, suggests that Bank/IDA supervision would require about 85 staff-weeks over the
life of the project, of which about 25 staff-weeks would be at headquarters for the review
of progress and audit reports, procurement actions and correspondence, etc., and 60 staff-
weeks would be in the field. More intensive supervision would be required during the
first three years of the project, during which time the technical assistance would be made
operational and many procurement contracts would have been tendered, evaluated and
awarded. Supervision would be provided by environmental engineering and financial



- 30-
staff, as well as other specialists, as needed. The Project Supervision Plan is shown in
Annex 9.
3.30   A mid-term review tentatively scheduled for late 1997, would be held to assess
the progress in implementation of the various components of the project. A key issue for
the review would be the possible reallocation of loan/credit proceeds from
underperforming municipalities to better performing municipalities, as an incentive for
strong municipal performance. The mid-term review mission would pay particular
attention to utility tariffs, environmental regulation, and associated policy issues critical
to project and sector success.



- 31 -
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT MANAGEMENT
4.1   The Hubei Environmental Protection Committee (HEPC), established in 1989,
has responsibility for the formulation of environmental policies and coordination of
environmental protection matters. It is headed by a vice-governor with support from the
deputy directors of Hubei Province Economic Commission, Hubei Province Planning
Commission, Hubei Province Science and Technology Commission, Hubei
Environmental Protection Bureau, Hubei Province Finance Bureau, and at least 16 other
representatives of at least the deputy director level representing a wide spectrum of
industry and government organizations. An organizational chart of the Hubei Provincial
Government is presented in Annex I O.  HEPC designated HEPB as the agency
responsible for managing the project. This Bureau organized and staffed HUEPO to
prepare and execute the project, including the supervision and monitoring of contracts,
maintenance of project records, and the submission of progress reports to the Bank/IDA
(para. 3.28). Environmental Protection Committees were set up in each of the project
municipalities, under which municipal project offices were established. During project
preparation, HUEPO and the municipal project offices received regular policy guidance
from their respective committees. These committees were headed by senior officials of
government: the Vice-Governor in the case of Hubei Province, and at least vice-mayor
rank in the project municipalities. The municipal project offices in turn created and
staffed subproject offices in each of the implementing agencies. HUEPO provides
functional guidance to the municipal project offices.
4.2   HUEPO has interacted well with the various project offices and consultants,
expedited resources to undertake preparation, and arranged for the project preparation
work to be completed to the satisfaction of HPG and the Bank/IDA, resulting in the
project having been appraised satisfactorily.  HUEPO would have the following
responsibilities during project implementation:
(a)   overall project coordination, macro-level project management and
monitoring:
(b)   annual budget preparation;
(c)   project-wide quality assurance;
(d)   progress reporting to HPG and the Bank/IDA, including cost management,
project impact and environmental improvement assessment;



- 32 -
(e)    interagency coordination and procurement support; and
(f)    sectoral training facilitation.
4.3    To enable HUEPO to undertake this work effectively, it has been strengthened,
and the personnel skill mix adjusted to reflect the needs of the implementation and
construction phase of the project. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
HIPG that HUEPO and the participating municipalities' project offices would be
maintained throughout implementation with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to
the Bank/IlDA, with competent staff in adequate numbers.
B. IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
4.4    The institutions designated by HPG and its municipal govermtents to implement,
and finance, the various components of the project, are listed in Table 4. 1, below.
Table 4.1: IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
Project Component                          Implementing Agency
Huiangh
Wastewater                                 Huangshi Municipal Drainage Company
Waste Management                           Appearance & Environmental Sanitation Bureau
Wuhan
Wastewater                                 Wuhan Municipal Wastewater Agency
Wastes Management                          Environmental Sanitation Bureau
Xiangfan
Wastewater                                 Xiangfan Municipal Wastewater Company
Wastes Management                          Environmental Sanitation Bureau
Yichang
Wastes Management                          Environmental Sanitation Bureau
Industrial Management and Environmental
Pollution Contol
Line of Credit                             Provincial Finance Bureau
Subloans                                   Hubei Environmental Protection Bureau
Water Ouality Monitoring & Management      Hubei Environmental Monitoring Center
Wuhan Environmental Monitoring Center
Technical Assistance & Traininy            Hubei Provincial Govemment
4.5    Provincial and Municipal Institutions. HPG is headed by a govemor assisted by
seven vice-govemors, each of whom  oversees several commissions and/or departments.
Various provincial commissions, departments and bureaus provide supervision and



- 33 -
guidance to the municipalities on matters relating to infrastructure, planning, development
and operation, including environmental protection works. Organization charts of the HPG
and the interrelationship of the project implementing agencies with the provincial
government are given in Annex 1O.
4.6    The organization of the municipal governments of Huangshi, Wuhan, Xiangfan and
Yichang is similar. Municipal affairs are overseen by the municipal economic and planning
commissions, and municipal urban and rural construction commissions.  The latter
commissions supervise a number of bureaus which are responsible for the physical
planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of urban infrastructure, and for
environmental protection. In addition, several bureaus concerned with urban infrastructure
report directly to the office of the mayor. These include the Finance Bureau, the Water
Conservancy Bureau, the Bureau of Public Health and Public Security Bureau.
4.7    As part of China's and Hubei's policy of reforms in the public utilities sector, the
participating municipalities have established self-accounting, and self-funding state-owned
entities to implement the wastewater components of the project. Prior to negotiations, the
Bank/lIDA received (a) conformed copies of the charters, and (b) business licenses of these
agencies. The wastes management component is to be implemented, operated and
maintained by the municipalities' Sanitation Departments/Divisions.
4.8    Wastewater. Until the creation of wastewater entities, wastewater collection,
treatment and disposal were generally provided by the sewerage sections of municipal
facilities management divisions (MFMDs) of the municipal governments. These divisions
reported to the municipal urban construction bureaus (UCBs), which, in turn, came under
the authority of the municipal construction commissions. MFMDs are also responsible for
the operation and maintenance of roads, bridges, parks and street lighting. The sewerage
sections did not operate on a financially autonomous basis, transferring, instead, all tariff
revenue collections to the UCB. Funds were consolidated at the UCB level and allocated to
the various sections for operation, maintenance and capital works, on the basis of budgets
prepared and submitted by the sections. The wastewater entities created for the project will
account for their own capital and operating costs, and existing wastewater assets are being
transferred to the entities' books. While the new entities are still required to remit their
revenues to their respective municipal governments, such funds are earmarked to finance
the operation and maintenance of the sewerage facilities, and service debt. The remitted
revenues, therefore, are returned in their entirety to the entities. While less desired than full
autonomy, water companies function efficiently under such a svstem. Staff from the
existing sewerage sections in the three project cities were transferred to the newly-formned
wastewater entities and have the skills needed to maintain and operate those entities, %% ith
training provided under the project.
4.9    Wastes Management. Domestic and municipal solid waste and nightsoil collection
and disposal are the responsibility of the municipal sanitation departments. Domestic waste
and nightsoil collections are usually performed by subdistrict teams who collect the waste
from the residential units and transfer it, usually by handcart, to transfer stations around the



- 34 -
cities. From there it is collected by the sanitation departments and disposed of at landfills or
dumping grounds, or, in the case of nightsoil, to storage tanks, into the sewerage system, or
to farmers. Neighborhood committees collect fees to offset collection costs.  Other
domestic costs are covered by a flat tax per employee and through general government
revenues. Industrial (including hazardous/toxic) and commercial wastes are disposed of by
the enterprises themselves, or by the sanitation departments, against payment of fees or
service charges.  Infectious hospital waste is normally incinerated by the hospitals
themselves; the domestic hospital waste is disposed of in the same manner as other
domestic waste. Recycling is practiced widely in all the project cities. The recyclables are
mainly ferrous and nonferrous metals, rubber, plastic, glass, paper and textiles. The
recyclables are usually brought to municipal-run collection points by the waste producers
themselves or by informal-sector operators. The latter collect material from producers,
from collection points, transfer stations or the disposal sites. Some of the recyclables
collected by the informal sector are sold directly to enterprises.
4.10  Industrial Pollution Control Line-of-Credit. The People's Construction Bank of
China, Hubei Branch, acting as agent for Hubei Provincial Finance Bureau, will be
responsible for appraising specific subprojects to be financed under the line of credit.
PCBC was appraised by the Bank/IDA and found to have the staff and administrative
capacity to undertake satisfactorily the agent role. A list of seven first-priority, and three
second-priority subprojects were selected by the Hubei Provincial Planning Commission,
(HPPC), working with HEPB and other regulatory agencies. Two of these subprojects
(Ezhou Iron & Steel and Yichang Cement) have been appraised jointly by PCBC and the
Bank/IDA to assess the appraisal process and criteria to be used.
4.11  Preparation work on the remaining subprojects will be carried out by the individual
enterprises. PCBC will conduct the financial and technical appraisal for the prepared
subprojects.   Subproject appraisal documentation will also include environmental
assessments and resettlement action plans prepared in conformity with Bank guidelines.
PCBC will report appraisal findings to HFB, which will confirm final approval of the
subproject with HPPC. The appraisal reports for these subprojects will then be sent to the
Bank/IDA by HPPC, through HUEPO, for approval before a subloan is approved. In
addition, PCBC will administer the disbursement and collection of funds for the
subprojects, review the contract packages, and determine the methods of procurement
required. In this capacity, PCBC will bear no financial risks. Assurances were obtained
dcuring negotiations that procedures and criteria for subproject appraisal, satisfactory to
the BanklIDA, would be followed. The project files contain the appraisal criteria which
have been agreed upon with HP. The signing of a financial agency agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank/IDA, between HP and a bank, including the relevant procedures and for the
provision of the necessary services, would he a condition of disbursement for this
subcomponent (para. 3.22).
4.12   Environmental Pollution Control Fund. The Hubei Environmental Pollution
Control Fund will be operated as a part of HEPB, although with segregated accounting and
special operating procedures.  The management and operation of the HEPCF are



- 35 -
summarized in Annex 12. The purpose of the HEPCF will be to provide funds for
environmental pollution control, targeted to small-scale enterprises.  Project selection
criteria have been proposed and generally follow that of similar funds in operation
elsewhere in China. Projects will be selected according to cost effectiveness and finaic;ia,
viability, with the first three appraisals and all appraisals for proposed subloans of over
$300,000 receiving ex-ante review by the Bank and the remainder subject to ex-post review.
Appraisal criteria, both technical and financial, and environmental and resettlement
requirements parallel those used in the Industrial Pollution Control Line-of-Credit described
in the previous paragraph. The principal funding sources for HEPCF will be fees levied on
pollution discharges (para. 3. 10), the proceeds of the Loan/Credit and recycling of loan and
interest payments. The approval by the Bank/IDA of an operational manual governing
HEPCF subloan processing and approval, and the execution of an acceptable financial
agency agreement between HP and a bank for subloan processing, would he conditions of
disbursement (para. 3.22).
4.13 Water Quality Monitoring and Management: Hubei Environmental
Monitoring Center (HEMC). HEMC, which was established in 1975, reports to the
Hubei Environmental Protection Bureau (HEPB). HEMC does not carry out routine
monitoring, but rather is responsible for supervising the work of municipal (Level 3) and
county (Level 4) monitoring centers in Hubei Province. These centers collect and analyze
the regular environmental monitoring samples from river cross-sections and lake sampling
points. The results are sent to HEMC where they are collated and analyzed to provide
provincial environmental quality reports. HEMC's major functions are: (a) technical
direction and training of Level 3 and 4 monitoring centers; (b) establishment and
coordination of the provincial environmental monitoring network; (c) environmental
pollution investigations; (d) data management and analyses; (e) development of
environmental quality standards; (f) development and validation of new test protocols;
(g) certification of Level 3 monitoring centers; (h) major environmental impact
assessments; (i) complex analyses which cannot be performed by municipal and COullt)
centers; and (j) research and development.
4.14  HEMC is headed by a director and has a staff of about 120, including some 80 well-
qualified technical staff. Its organizational structure includes 18 departments, of which 14
are technical and the balance administrative.
4.15 Water Quality Monitoring and Management: Wuhan Environmental
Monitoring Center (WEMC). WEMC, which was established in 1979 as a Level 3
(municipal) monitoring center, is one of the main divisions of the Wuhan Environmental
Protection Bureau, and reports to that Bureau. WEMC is responsible for monitoring
(a) water quality, (b) air quality, and (c) solid wastes. In addition to carrying out its own
analyses, WEMC oversees and compiles data from 13 Level 4 monitoring centers within
Wuhan Municipality. It produces reports for the national and provincial monitoring centers
which document industrial wastewater, surface water quality and statistical aialyses of
sampling results.  WEMC has also been given responsibility for a WorlJ  I lealtli



- 36 -
Organization Global Environmental Monitoring Station on the Yangtze River, upstream of
the Han River.
4.16   WEMC is headed by a director and has a staff of 140, including some 135 well-
qualified  technical staff.  Its organizational structure includes  13 departments,
encompassing the following four analytical functions: (a) water quality monitoring; (b) air
quality monitoring; (c) biotic monitoring; and (d) physical testing.
4.17  Institutional Development and Training. As the wastewater entities have been
created only recently and the solid waste bureaus lack financial management tools, the
project institutional development and training component has been designed specifically to
address the accounting, management information, financial management, utility pricing,
technical requirements and training needs of the entities, in particular, through activities
supported by Packages A and B (see Annex 2). Prior to negotiations HPG provided a
signed contract, acceptable to the Bank/IDA, for the provision of construction management
and operational training consulting services under Package B (para. 3.17). HPG expects to
sign a contract for the provision of financial consulting services under Package A by
effectiveness of the Loan and Credit.
C. STATUS OF ENGINEERING
4.18  Xiangfan identified an alternative landfill site late in the project preparation cycle.
To test this alternative, the Xiangfan Municipal Government intends to complete, not
later  than  December  31,  1996, (a) a  feasibility  study;  (b) detailed  design;
(c) environmental assessment; and (d) land acquisition and resettlement plan (para. 3.22).
4.19   Project preparation and design work has been undertaken jointly by international
and local consultants and design bureaus, and is well advanced. Work on final design
and draft bidding document for (a) the landfill operating equipment and solid waste
vehicles for Wuhan, Yichang and Huangshi; (b) Wuhan: Shahu/Erlangmiao/Longwangzui
civil works and equipment supply and installation; (c) Xiangfan: Fancheng interceptors
civil works; and (d) Yichang: Huangjiawan sanitary landfill, representing approximately
20 percent of municipal component investments was completed in June 1995. The
remaining final design and bidding document preparation work will continue during the
period prior to effectiveness.



- 37 -
5. FINANCE
A. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
5.1   Since 1978, Chinese economic reforms have evolved gradually toward an
increasingly decentralized financial system. Most industrial production and prices have
become free of government control, and enterprises have to purchase most of their inputs
at market prices. Enterprise reform has become a high priority of the Government. In
this connection, the guiding principles of the recently promulgated "regulations on
transforming the management mechanisms of state-owned industrial enterprises" are to
separate government administration from enterprise management, increase the autonomy
and accountability of state-owned enterprises, and increase competition and market
orientation. The reformn efforts to improve economic policies and enterprise efficiencies
are essential for sustaining both economic development and environmental protection in
the longer run.
5.2   In order for the enterprises to assume their increased responsibilities efficiently and
effectively, strengthening their financial management is essential. Toward this end, the
proposed project would support the application of modem management techniques and
human resource development for the utility companies.
B. ACCOUNTING
5.3   Different accounting systems are used by enterprises (autonomous units),
construction units (which execute investment projects) and local government
departments, in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Ministry of Finance.
5.4   Enterprise Accounting. All the state-owned enterprises in China follow a unified
enterprise accounting system. The accounting framework was developed in the context of a
highly centralized planned economy. With a view to complementing the ongoing efforts to
deepen reforms in the financial sector and enterprise management, the accounting system in
China needed modernization to permit satisfactory financial management in an increasingly
decentralized and market-oriented environment. As a first step, the general principles of
enterprise (the term to include public utilities such as water, sewerage, and district heating
companies) accounting were revised by the Ministry of Finance from July 1, 1993 to be
more consistent with internationally generally accepted accounting practice. As part of the
reforms, enterprises are required to produce five reports for submission to (Governrmeii:
balance sheet, income statement, source and application of funds, profit distribution, and
details of main business. The first two reports are required monthly, the remainder on an



- 38 -
annual basis.  All enterprise implementing agencies included in the project will be
following the new accounting and reporting formats.
5.5    Government Accounting. The regular government department accounts reflect
expenditures incurred against budget allocations by HPG or their municipal government.
Accounting is handled in a decentralized manner through transfers to subunits from which
actual expenditures are made and recorded on a cash basis. Accounts are kept at all levels,
and each subunit reflects in its accounts the budget allocation it receives from the unit
above.
5.6   Project Accounts. Project accounts would be maintained by HUEPO and the
environmental sanitation divisions of Huangshi, Wuhan, Xiangfan and Yichang in
accordance with the State Construction Unit Accounting System. This system prescribes
generally accepted accounting practices, including double entry bookkeeping, subsidiary
ledger accounting, and rules for capitalizing and expensing various items of expenditure. It
also sets out detailed accounting definitions for capital works, cash control, receivables and
payables. In addition, it identifies a number of basic monthly, quarterly and annual
reporting fornats, including funds flow statements and balance sheets. The construction
accounting system is comprehensive, and is adequate for the proposed project. Project-
related expenditures incurred by enterprises (e.g., the wastewater entities and the industries
to be included in the industrial pollution control component), would be reflected within
their respective enterprise accounting systems.
C. AUDITS
5.7    As with other IBRD-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment Audit
Bureau of the State Audit Administration (SAA), established in 1983, would have overall
responsibility for auditing accounts concerning the project. The actual auditing work will
be conducted by the Hubei Provincial Audit Department under SAA's supervision. This
arrangement is satisfactory. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
following annual audits would be submitted to the BanklIDA within six months after the end
of the financial year: (a) audit of the project accounts maintained by HUEPO and the
environmental sanitation divisions of Huangshi, Wuhan, Xiangfan and Yichang; (h) audit of
the Special Account; (c) audit of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs); (d) audits of the
financial statements of the wastewater entities of Huangshi, Wuhan and Xiangfan, and
(e) audit of HEPCF. The Bank/lIDA would expect to receive the first such audit reports by
June 30, 1997, covering project implementation activities commencing in fiscal year 1996.
D. PROVINCIAL FINANCE
5.8   The Hubei Provincial Government has two types of finance, on-budgetary and off-
budgetary. On-budgetary revenues are provided through taxes, the base and rate of which
are set by the Central Government. The central government directly controls the single
largest tax source-the value-added tax-receipts from which are shared with local
government. A variety of other taxes are collected and used directly by local government.
Most off-budgetary revenues consist of special fees paid by enterprises, and fees and



- 39 -
charges relating to construction activities. These are used for capital expenditures. On-
budgetary and off-budgetary accounts are not consolidated. While information on off-
budgetary revenues and expenditures is confidential, and was not, therefore, provided to the
Bank/IDA, they are said to be at least as large as the on-budgetary data.
5.9   HP will recover the debt associated with the project as it is being passed on to the
municipalities and industrial enterprises. HPG will monitor municipal finances to assure
that the municipalities and their respective agencies meet their debt service obligations.
Should the municipalities and their subborrowers be unable to fulfill their obligations, HP
would have no difficulty in covering debt service through its own resources, as the debt
service represented by the project is small compared to total provincial budgetary
expenditures. Provincial fiscal budgetary revenues and expenditures totaled about Y 13.1
billion ($1.6 billion) and Y 10.9 billion ($1.3 billion), respectively, in 1994. Between
1991 and 1994, revenues and expenditures increased on average by about 11 and
3 percent a year, respectively. Revenues are derived mainly from taxes on industry and
commerce, which have been remitted by the municipalities. Revenues and expenditures
are projected to grow at about 5 percent a year in real terms during the project period.
E. MUNICIPAL FINANCE
5.10 HP will, through the municipalities of Huangshi, Wuhan, Xiangfan and Yichang,
provide all funding not met by (a) the proceeds of the Bank Loan and IDA Credit, and
(b) funds generated  internally  by  the  implementing  agencies.   During  project
implementation, the financial projections show that these requirements would be of the
order of Y 109 million for Huangshi, Y 923 million for Wuhan, Y 338 million for
Xiangfan, and Y 62 million for Yichang. The municipalities, like HPG, have two sources
of finance, on-budget and off-budget. The off-budget details are confidential, and were not,
therefore, provided to the Bank/IDA. The municipal funding requirements would come
from many more sources than municipal on-budget revenue. The Hubei Finance Bureau
(HFB) has independently assessed the municipalities' abilitv to generate the required
counterpart funds from assured sources.
5.11   Average annual project-related expenditures comprise between about I to 4 percent
of the municipalities' annual total on-budget expenditures, and between 20 and 40 percent
of their annual capital expenditures, except for Xiangfan where the planned expenditures
were substantially curtailed due to counterpart funding constraints, but still temporarily
represent about a twofold increase in capital expenditures. During negotiations, assurancc..
were obtained from HPG that it would provide, directly or through the municipalitie.s, the
necessary counterpartfunds for the execution of the project.
F. WASTEWATER AGENCIES
5.12  As the wastewater agencies, which evolved out of the cities' departmental
wastewater operations, were established only in the latter phases of the project
preparation cycle, no assessment of their past performance was possible. Based on the
limited data available, it was determined that the Huangshi and Xiangfan departmental



- 40 -
wastewater operations were able to meet their operating expenses, excluding
depreciation, in 1994. As is the practice in departmental operations, no provision for
depreciation was made. Had depreciation charges been included, their operations would
have run at a loss. In Huangshi, the revenue from wastewater operations in 1994 was
calculated to be Y 3.5 million, based on 1993 drainage fee collections of Y 1.9 million
plus industrial discharge fee collections of Y 1.2 million, adjusted to reflect some
inflation. In Xiangfan, no operating revenues were assumed. Instead, an amount of Y 4.7
million was assumed as nonoperating revenue, representing discharge fees paid to
Xiangfan EPB. As no departmental revenue data were made available from Wuhan, the
financial projections were developed from the net historical value of investments made in
the wastewater sector. The financial objective set by HPG for the newly-established
wastewater companies is to achieve full cost recovery, and, if possible, generate some
funds for future capital investment.
Wastewater Treatment
5.13   Prior to negotiations, the Bank/IDA received written confirmation from HPG that it
had authorized the wastewater agencies of Huangshi, Wuhan and Xiangfan to implement
enhanced wastewater tariffs from January 1, 1996, such enhanced tariffs to be applicable to
all residerntial and nonresidential wastewater producers within the respective service areas of
the project wastewater agencies. The existing and initial revised average tariffs are set out
in Table 5.1 below. HPG confirned also that it had authorized the wastewater agencies to
increase their average wastewater tariffs by Y 0.02/M3 a year from 1997 to 2001. These
tariff levels should be sufficient to meet the financial covenants (para. 5.15) to at least the
year 2000 in the case of Huangshi and Xiangfan, and 2002 in the case of Wuhan. The
salient features of the projected finances of: (a) Huangshi Municipal Drainage Companv
(HMDC); (b) Wuhan Municipal Wastewater Enterprise (WMWE); and (c) Xiangfan
Municipal Sewerage Company (XMSC), are highlighted in Table 5.2 below. The
assumptions used in the financial projections and projected financial statements and detailed
monitoring indicators are included in Annex 13.
Table 5.1: WASTEWATER AVERAGE TARIFFS
Utility                     Existing Tariff L/           Revised Tariffs /b
(where applicable)
Huangshi Wastewater           Y 0.10 per m3              Y 0.18 per m3
Wuhan Wastewater              Y 0.08 per m3              Y 0.18 per m3
Xiangfan Wastewater           Y 0.1 (0 per m3            Y 0.18 per m3
La Applicable to nonresidential users only
Lb To be applicable to both residential and nonresidential users



- 41 -
5.14  Tariffs would be set at levels which would provide a contribution to capital
expenditures as well as cover operation and maintenance costs. The financial projections,
which are summarized below (Table 5.2) take this into account. Over the implementation
period of the project the wastewater entities are projected to make the following
contributions to their respective project investments: Huangshi-38 percent; Wuhan-
31 percent; and Xiangfan-13 percent, notwithstanding a more limited minimum financial
objective, as indicated in the following paragraph.
5.15  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that, commencing with Fiscal Year
1996, HPG would cause the wastewater entities of Huangshi, Wuhan and Xiangfan to
(a) produce revenues from their wastewater operations sufficient to cover their operations
and maintenance costs (including depreciation), and the amount by which debt service
requirements exceed the provision for depreciation; and (b) incur no additional debt
without the BanklIDA's agreement, unless a reasonable forecast shows that the entities
would have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times.
5.16  Implementation of a wastewater tariff of Y 0. 18/m3 applicable to all residential and
nonresidential wastewater producers within the service areas of HMDC, WAMWE and
XMSC is a condition of effectiveness.
5.17  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the wastewater companies
would prepare, before September 30, 1996, and in each of the following fiscal years,
forecasts satisfactory to the Bank/IDA, (a) to review whether they would meet the
covenanted requirements set forth above in such year and the following fiscal year; and
(b) to furnish the results of such reviews to the Bank/IDA. If any such review would show
that the wastewater company would not meet the requirements set out above, the company
would take all necessary measures, including adjustments to the structure of its tariffs and
charges, in order to meet the requirements.



- 42 -
Table 5.2: KEY WASTEWATER FINANCIAL AND OPERATING INDICATORS
Huangshi Municipal Drainage Company
(million, yuan, unless noted; current prices)
1994     1995      1996   1997    1998    1999   2000   2001    2002
Wastewater (Dom) m3        30       32        34      36      38       39      41      43      44
Wastewater (Ind) m3        37       43        49      55      61       67      73      79      85
Water Consumption m3    N.A.        92        96      100     105     110     114     120     125
Wastewater Billed m3     N.A.       73        77      80       84      88      92      96     100
Operating Revenue        N.A.    N.A.        13.8    16.1    18.5   21.0    23.8    29.3    32.0
OperatingExpenseLa         3.5      4.0       4.6    5.1      5.5     5.9    16.7    18.7   20.8
Net Income                -3.0    -3.1        5.3    6.3      7.5     9.0   -2.2    -1.5    -0.8
Average Tariff (Yuan     N.A.    N.A.        0.18    0.20    0.22    0.24    0.26    0.31    0.32
per Mi)
Capital Expenditures        0       9.4      23.3    28.2    30.6    21.9     8.8     6.0     0.2
Operating Ratio          N.A.    N.A.        0.56    0.51    0.47    0.43    0.95    0.93    0.92
Debt Service Coverage    N.A.    N.A.        12.2   7.12    5.66    5.08    2.02    1.51    1.64
(times)
Wuhan Municipal Wastewater Enterprise
(million, yuan, unless noted; current prices)
1994     1995      1996    1997    1998    1999   2000   2001   2002
Wastewater(Dom)m3        N.A.      321       338    355      373     391     410    428    448
Wastewater(Ind)m3        N.A.      358       368     379    391      402    414    427    440
WaterConsumptionm3    N.A.         848       883    918      954    992   1,030   1,069   1,109
Wastewater Billed m 3    N.A.      678       706    734    764       793     824     855      887
Operating Revenue        N.A.    N.A.         127     147    168      190    214    239       266
OperatingExpensela       N.A.    27.8        31.4   37.4   44.1    52.1    111        122     134
Net Income               N.A.       -43      72.7   78.6    81.4    86.9    19.6      4.4    21.9
Average Tariff(Yuan      N.A.    N.A.        0.18    0.20    0.22    0.24    0.26    0.28    0.30
perm )
Capital Expenditures        0      120       148    363      566      67       67       0       0
Operating Ratio          N.A.    N.A.        0.37    0.36    0.36    0.36    0.74    0.83    0.79
Debt Service Coverage    N.A.    N.A.        13.6   7.33    4.67    3.91    2.76    1.61    1.89
(times)



- 43 -
Xiangfan Municipal Sewerage Company
(million, unless noted; current prices)
1994    1995     1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
Wastewater(Dom)m3       35.3    38.9      42.5   45.9   49.5   53.0   56.7   60.1   63.7
Wastewater (Ind) m3      109     120       132    142    153    164    175    186    197
Water Consumptionm3    N.A.      180      188    197    205    215    224    234    245
Wastewater Billed m3   N.A.      144      150    157    164    173    179    188    196
Operating Revenue      N.A.    N.A.       27.1   31.4   36.1   41.2   46.7   67.0   70.5
Operating Expense /a     4.0     4.9       5.7    6.7    8.0    9.4   27.4   29.9   32.7
Net Income              -2.4    -4.2      15.2   13.3   13.0   15.6   -5.6    4.5    6.2
Average Tariff (Yuan   N.A.    N.A.       0.18    0.20    0.22    0.24    0.26    0.36    0.36
per M3)
Capital Expenditures      0       11       179    224     49      38       1      0       0
Operating Ratio        N.A.    N.A.       0.32    0.30    0.29    0.29    0.82    0.73    0.73
Debt Service Coverage    N.A.    N.A.     5.83   2.78    2.23    2.31    1.34    1.35    1.43
(times)
la Excludes depreciation.
G. WASTES MANAGEMENT
5.18   Solid waste and nightsoil management services are general municipal services
which have traditionally been funded from the general revenues of local governments.
However, where individual users of the services have been identified, local governments
have, as a policy matter, charged such users for the services provided. Thus, commercial
and industrial entities which haul their refuse to landfill for disposal, or contract with
their respective sanitation departments to do so, have been charged a disposal fee.
5.19   The 1993 recurrent cost recovery ratios for solid waste management in the project
cities were as follows: Huangshi-43 percent; Wuhan-4 1 percent; Xiangfan-26 percent;
and Yichang -35 percent. Huangshi and Wuhan have shown a steadily improving
performance over the period 1990-93; Xiangfan's performance over the same period has
been static.  Yichang commenced charging for its service only in 1992 when its cost
recovery ratio was 40 percent. The 1993 cost recovery ratios for nightsoil among the cities
varied from 8 percent to 20 percent.
5.20   All four project cities have considered increasing their fees and charges, and in two
of the cities the appropriate authorities have already approved higher charges for some parts
of the services. The cost recovery objective for solid waste and nightsoil services for all
four cities is to recover the full unit cost of collection and disposal where user identification
and billing is economically feasible. The balance of the cost for providing these services
would be met from the general revenues of the municipality.



- 44 -
5.21   During the implementation phase of this component the cities have indicated that
they intend to apply a portion of the proceeds of their respective solid waste and nightsoil
user charges and fees towards meeting their counterpart funding requirements. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from HPG that it would ensure that Huangshi,
Wuhan, Xiangfan, and Yichang Municipalities would each: (a) not later than April 1,
1997, complete a study of the fees and user charges needed for the recovery of the full
costs of providing solid waste collection and disposal services to industrial and
commercial users; the report of that study shall include a detailed, time-bound action
plan, acceptable to the Bank, enabling such recovery as of July 1, 1997; and
(b) thereafter implement the said action plan taking into account the Bank/IDA's
comments thereon.
5.22   As these services have been decentralized to the district and subdistrict levels, and
because the accounting systems, particularly at the lower levels, are weak, accurate costs of
providing these services have been difficult to determine. The project, therefore, includes
technical assistance and training to help develop appropriate accounting, including unit cost
accounting, and management information systems for determining accurate unit costs of the
services at the various stages, e.g., collection, transportation, treatment (in the case of
nightsoil), and final disposal. With such information, the cities would then be in a better
position tu (a) assess the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the services; (b) price their
services to recover the full economic cost where user identification and billing is
economically feasible; and (c) judge whether the services, or parts thereof, can be further
commercialized or privatized.
I}. INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION CONTROL SUBPROJECTS
5.23   As some of the priority pollution control subprojects are, by nature, not
financially productive, the financial appraisal would focus on the long-term financial
health of the enterprises.  The key considerations in this assessment include the
enterprise's development goals and strategy, product mix and market analysis, investment
requirements and related financing arrangements, and projected financial performance in
terms of profitability, liquidity and debt servicing capabilities.  The two industrial
pollution control subprojects that Bank/IDA staff have already appraised meet the above
financial criteria and therefore are considered financially viable.  With a view to
promoting prudent financial management, the agreed subproject selection criteria call for
the entity to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of not less than 1.4 times after the
proposed subproject has reached full production capacity.



- 45 -
6. ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
CONSIDERATIONS
A. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.1   As described in Chapter 2, the project derives from the CAS in its support of
provincial efforts to substantially reduce pollution within the province, especially within
densely populated urban areas, by improving environmental regulation and providing new
models for the efficient organization and financing of urban environmental services.
Specifically, the project would support:
(a)   the more aggressive use of user fees to shift the burden of pollution
abatement to the polluter and induce waste minimization, and new
organizational forms for wastewater providers, to allow improved
management tools and to help minimize the cost of abatement;
(b)   the provincial and municipal EPBs in their efforts to implement more
effective regulatory instruments;
(c)   expansion of sewerage services, hence a reduction in water pollution, within
the boundaries of Wuhan, Xiangfan, and Huangshi, thus protecting the
urban environment and the health of their people;
(d)   the first municipal solid waste landfills meeting national standards in the
cities of Xiangfan and Yichang, and major capacity expansion in Huangshi
and Wuhan, with consequent protection of local land and water resources
and flaring of landfill methane to reduce greenhouse gas emissions; and
(e)   a line of credit to allow abatement of important industrial point sources of
pollution affecting large urban populations and a pollution control revolving
fund to provide a model for such funds.
B. ECONoMic ANALYSIS
6.2   Current methodologies do not permit high-confidence benefit estimates for the
major municipal investments in wastewater and solid waste collection and treatment
proposed under this project. Although some benefits, such as restoring Wuhan's East
Lake as a source of potable water, can be readily quantified, measurement becomes
exceedingly problematic for the complex of aesthetic, health, agricultural, and other
impacts that often reach far beyond the political boundaries of the polluter. For this



- 46 -
reason, project formulation did not utilize traditional benefit-cost analysis as the basis for
allocating resources.
6.3    During project identification, it became clear that Hubei and its cities needed
substantial change in policy and institutional structures along the lines described in the
sector work reported in Chapter 1 (China: Urban Environmental Service Management).
Policy problems included urban environmental services priced too low to discourage
waste generation or provide the financing needed to build, maintain, and operate services
such as wastewater collection and treatment. Government bureaus providing the services
lacked the financial tools to develop effective tariff strategies or the operating autonomy
needed to encourage managerial innovation. Gaps in environmental regulation were also
apparent. Therefore, investment choices were made with a view toward maximizing the
impact of policy and institutional innovation within the province. Specific investment
choices within sectors and cities responded to long-run municipal government strategies
to bring ambient environmental quality or service standards up to national guidelines and
were evaluated on a least-cost option basis. The analysis is discussed in more detail in
Annex 14 and the detailed calculations can be found in the project files. Highlights of the
analysis are given below.
6.4    City and Sector Choices. In urban environmental service provision, cities were
included in the project based on the size of the population potentially benefiting from
improved services and considering their value as models to other provincial cities. After
reviewing potential investments in some nine provincial cities, the four largest cities were
selected for further project development.  Each of those cities had already prepared
environmental improvement plans that outlined priority service improvements, both in
terms of the type of service and areas of the city needing service. Work with Bank missions
confirmed the choice to extend sewerage systems and build or substantially expand sanitary
landfills as the next step in environmental protection.
6.5    Credit market constraints (described much more fully in the China Department's
1995 Capital Markets Sector Study (No. 14501-CHA)) leave unexploited a large number of
abatement opportunities in economically and financially viable enterprises that currently
have a high pollution impact on large populations. Hubei Province therefore sought to use
part of the loan to fund such investments. The Province agreed with the Bank on a selection
process to identify the highest-impact polluters and provide them access to a line-of-credit
to finance abatement interventions.
6.6    Given that urban environmental problems could be successfully addressed only by a
combination of urban service and industrial pollution control measures, and that the high
visibility of Bank-financed operations was thought important to providing model
approaches to outstanding problems, HPG and the Bank/IDA agreed that both types of
activities should be incorporated into the loan and credit. The allocation of the loan and
credit between the two types of activities, approximately two thirds to municipal services
and one third to industrial and environmental pollution control, resulted from a shared
judgment about the balance that would produce maximum impact within the province.



- 47 -
6.7    Wastewater.  Wastewater collection and treatment programs are discussed in
detail in Annex 14. In no city were counterpart funds sufficient to finance completion of
wastewater collection systems. Therefore, the engineering and economic analysis sought
to identify the largest wastewater loads that could be picked up with availablc funds-a
variation on the least-cost approach. For Xiangfan, whose water pollution affects urban
tributaries to the Han River, and that river itself, only one of the two major urban districts
could be sewered. Of the two, Fancheng district could be handled at lower cost and was
therefore selected (Map 27175). The interceptor sewer will pick up most discharges to
the Xiaoqinghe and Qilihe Rivers, the largest within Fancheng, with a resulting quality
increase from below usable standard to Class III, which permits agricultural and
industrial use.2 The wastewater will discharge through a preliminary treatment plant to
the Han River, where a net improvement in water quality must await later primary and
secondary treatment. For Huangshi, on the Yangtze (Map 27175), the largest problem is
Cihu lake, major parts of which have deteriorated from Class III to worse than Class V in
a decade. Of the planned northern and southern trunk sewers around Cihu, the southern
would serve the largest sources of Cihu pollution and 120,000 people. This investment
alone is estimated to bring the lake back to Class III standard. Modeling showed that the
additional discharges to the Yangtze could be safely assimilated. Wuhan had lost the use
of 10 percent of municipal water supply previously extracted from East Lake, which has
fallen to Class IV in many areas. The cost of that loss had been an average of Y 20
million per year in replacement supply from the Yangtze. The chosen intervention of
diversion plus primary treatment will cost Y 640 million and restore East Lake quality to
Class IlI.
6.8    Solid Waste. Solid waste landfills are also discussed in detail in Annex 14. Here,
initial choices were among potential solid waste disposal strategies that included recycling,
composting, incineration, and landfilling. Recycling plays an active role in each of the
cities, captunrng most of the 5 percent of the municipal waste stream that can be profitably
recycled. The industry is highly competitive, with little scope for additional useful
municipal intervention. Composting, to recycle organic materials, has been tested with
scant success in Wuhan and other Chinese cities. Costs have been high and markets have
not supported product sales. A major problem for composting and incineration is that over
half of the waste stream is inorganic, with coal ash the dominant inorganic component.
Analysis in other cities with similar waste streams has shown incineration to be
substantially more costly than landfill. Based on that work, each of the four cities has
elected to use landfilling to handle their municipal solid wastes.
6.9    The cities have accepted that such landfills must comply with national standards, so
made no attempt to compare the cost of adding leachate and gas collection with the damage
that would ensue from their absence. Given the long run risks inherent in unprotected
2 The water quality classification system: Classes I and II: high quality suitable for drinking water
source; Class Ill: usable for drinking water after treatment; Class IV: boating, fishing, industrial water
supply; Class V: irrigation and industrial cooling.



- 48 -
landfills, the Bank accepted without additional impact evaluation the municipal judgment
on the need to provide leachate and gas collection and treatment. The least cost site and
design had, as one of the main decision criteria, minimization of the joint cost of transport
and land acquisition. As land acquisition cost correlates very strongly with resettlement
impact, this criteria also tends to minimize resettlement. For Wuhan, the availability of
suitable land adjoining an existing landfill determined the site choice.  Xiangfan is
continuing analysis of two alternative sites, while Yichang and Huangshi have both
confirmed sites among their alternatives.
6.10  Industrial Pollution Control. The industrial pollution control component has two
subcomponents, one a line of credit for major investments and the other a pollution control
fund targeting small investments and small-scale enterprises.  Eligibility criteria were
discussed in para. 2.9 and, second to the environmental impact ranking, require a
financially and economically viable enterprise. Once that is demonstrated, proposed
abatement measures would be appraised for technical feasibility and economic least cost.
Given the difficulty of valuing environmental externalities, an economic rate of return
would not normnally be calculated. This approach recognizes that the most efficient
pollution abatement investments will not necessarily produce a positive financial or easily
valued economic return and therefore focuses on the fundamental soundness of the
enterprise. The firm ranked most damaging among the viable firms was Ezhou Iron and
Steel Company (Egang). The firm's proposed abatement projects were jointly appraised by
Bank and PCBC staff to test the domestic appraisal process. Other line-of-credit applicants
must pass similar appraisals, all of which will be subject to Bank prior review.
6.11   The successful appraisal (see Annex 14, paras. 26-32 for fuller treatment) covered
two subcomponents at the enterprise, one for air pollution abatement and the other
wastewater treatment. The key appraisal finding showed the firm to be financially
healthy and economically viable. The firm benefited from progressive price liberalization
after 1992, and in 1994 had net profits of Y 220 million on sales of Y 1,520 million and
low debt compared to the industry average. The latter finding was particularly important
given the rapid integration of China's steel industry into the international market
economy. In terms of proposed interventions, the first Egang subcomponent will replace
a 40-year old electric arc furnace that is responsible for 23 percent of the TSP
concentrations within an urban area containing some 200,000 people. The proposed
investment is in a new furnace, incorporating up-to-date air pollution control, which will
produce virtually no particulates or oxides of nitrogen (NOJ) and will improve air quality
for affected people from Class III to Class II. The smallest economically viable furnaces
now have a capacity of about 300,000 tons/year, some 20 percent higher than the current
furnace. This capacity increase, coupled with input efficiency gains and the higher
quality output of modern furnaces, will give that subcomponent a positive financial and
economic return before accounting for the environmental benefits. The investment itself
will yield an estimated 12 percent financial and 23 percent economic rate of return, where
the economic rate of return incorporates none of the air quality gains. Most of the gap
between the financial and economic rates of return is due to the fact that Egang steel is



- 49 -
priced 20 to 30 percent below CIF imported prices for equivalent products. That gap
leaves substantial room to absorb price pressures should the world steel market soften.
6.12 The analysis also looked at the sensitivity of the economic rate of returns to
various changes. The four factors judged to have the greatest impact on the economic
rate of return were changes in the economic price of steel, an increase in input costs
relative to sales prices, higher-than-anticipated capital costs, and lower-than-anticipated
efficiency levels (Annex 14, para. 29). To drop the ERR to 12 percent, a combination of
factors including a 20 percent drop in sales price (to over 40 percent below intemational
market levels), a 10 percent increase in capital costs, and a 10 percent "learning curve"
drop in efficiency would have to occur simultaneously. Note that this ERR does not
consider environmental benefits, hence understates true returns. This or similar adverse
combinations are judged highly unlikely given Egang's operating experience and recent
market history in the key input and output markets.
6.13 The high and robust economic returns to the proposed air pollution control
investment are an example of a "win-win" solution to an environmental problem.
However, Egang also includes an example of damaging wastewater discharges that are
difficult to value, and the main available intervention increases operating costs with no
corresponding increase in a marketable product. Egang discharges some 17 tons a year of
phenol, 11.8 tons of cyanide, and 462 tons of oil, as well as large amounts of solids and
chemical oxygen demand (COD) into local watercourses and then the Yangtze. The
phenol and cyanide contribute over 90 percent of all such discharges in Ezhou city and
the oil 63 percent, with the result that the major urban waterways fall to category IV for
phenol and oil, and II for cyanide.
6.14  To reduce these discharges, Egang will invest an estimated Y 130 million and
substantially revamp their wastewater handling system. All discharges currently entering
the Yanglan Lake or Xingang River will be intercepted, treated, and reused, ending
Egang's contribution to their pollution. Yanglan Lake is fished and used as an industrial
water supply source. The Xingang River provides potable water for villagers and a
source of industrial water supply. No epidemiological work has been done on the impact
of Egang discharges through fish consumption or domestic water supply, so damage
estimates were not possible. The most serious discharges, from the coking plant, will
continue to discharge directly to the Yangtze. However, a new coking wastewater
treatment plant financed by the project will radically reduce pollutants in that discharge,
with, for example, phenol falling from 1.53 tons/year to 0.45 tons/year and oil from
32.4 tons/year to 6.5 tons/year. The net effect of the investment will be to bring the
Xingang River and Yanglan Lake to Class II in these pollutants, allowing safe use of the
water.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
6.15   The project would contribute significantly to improving Hubei's environment, in
ways detailed in the body of this report and its annexes. Potential adverse impacts from



- 50 -
the sanitary landfill and industrial pollution control components require an "A" category
in terms of the World Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (EA).
Accordingly, a full EA has been completed, reviewed by the Bank and approved by
NEPA. The full report can be found in the project files. Annex 7 details the EA findings
and reflects the findings of the appraisal mission. The resettlement impact of the project
will be managed through a resettlement action plan that can be found in the project files
and is summarized in Annex 6.
D. AFFORDABILITY AND POVERTY ASSESSMENT
6.16   The affordability issue arises only with the wastewater components of the
proposed project.  The industrial pollution interventions will proceed only if the
enterprise can demonstrate that it will remain financially sound after the investment, and
solid waste charges will rise only for industrial and commercial users of the new landfills.
Affordability of the new wastewater systems was tested against current consumption
patterns and average income of the poorest 10 percent of the urban population in the three
cities. The proposed first-year tariff would consume an average of 0.25 percent of the
income of the poorest 10 percent, based on 80 percent of water used. Indeed, because the
poor are less likely than other households to have water piped to the house (using
standpipes instead, for which no fees are currently charged), even the 0.25 percent figure
represents an upper bound.
6.17   The affordability of the higher tariffs anticipated in later years will clearly depend
on changes in real income among the urban poor over time. In real termns, the tariffs will
increase to as much as twice the anticipated 1996 rate. With no change in real income
and no consumption effect, the average wastewater bill would increase to 0.50 percent of
average income for the poorest 10 percent of households. However, over the past decade,
the real incomes of the urban poor have risen in line with overall income increases. If
that pattem, and overall real personal income growth, continues near current rates,
wastewater tariffs as a percentage of personal income would remain virtually unchanged
from the first-year level. In absolute terms, the increase would be fully offset by first
year income gains.
E. PROJECT Risks
6.18   The proposed project faces or mitigates a variety of risks. Those risks are here
grouped under three general headings: implementation and operational risks, regulatory
risk, and risks to long-term sustainability. Each type of risk is discussed in detail in
Annex 14. Those findings will be briefly summarized here.
6.19   Project financing presents a risk due to the need for municipal counterpart
funding. Among the four cities, Xiangfan has committed the highest percentage of its
on-budget resources to the project.  The final investment represents a substantial
reduction on Xiangfan's requested program, in an attempt to minimize the financing risk.
Additional mitigation is provided by the phasing of the Xiangfan solid waste investments



- 51 -
and by independent provincial finance bureau affirmation of Bank findings on the
adequacy of counterpart funds.
6.20  The shift to new organizational forms for wastewater management is critical to
project success. Slow institutional innovation therefore becomes a project risk. All
cities are well along in the process, with Xiangfan having successfully completed the
transformation to an enterprise. In Huangshi, assets have been revalued and that work is
being reviewed by the State Asset Bureau, the last step before formal transfer. Wuhan has
begun revaluing assets and expects to undertake the transfer by the end of 1995, well before
planned effectiveness.  The groundwork is thus laid for introduction of the new
accounting and management information systems needed to efficiently guide the work of
these enterprises. In the long run, efficient operation will also depend on cities honoring
the autonomy of the enterprises in personnel and other management decisions. This
element of risk cannot be divorced from larger efforts within the economy to reform
government relations with the state owned enterprise sector. These issues have recently
received thorough analysis in State Owned Enterprise Reform (currently in yellow cover).
6.21   The industrial and environmental pollution control components create credit risk
born by the provincial government. Under the line of credit, the agent bank, for a fee,
undertakes project appraisal and handles fund administration on behalf of the provincial
goverrnment. An essential element of the project appraisal, which is subject to review and
confirmation by the provincial finance bureau, is analysis of the firm's financial strength
and the risk it faces in its input and output markets. Subloans to be made by HEPCF will
be governed by operating procedures that remain to be approved by the Bank/IDA.
HEPCF will also enter into an agreement with a bank for subloan processing. All
enterprises must meet a 1.4 debt service coverage requirement over the project life,
providing that margin of safety to the government exposure. The loans are being made at
no less than 150 basis points over the Bank variable lending rate, in US dollars, with the
enterprise bearing the foreign exchange risk. With fees to the agent bank amounting to
no more than 50 basis points, the provincial government will capture at least 100 basis
points to cover their costs and risks. In addition, they will enjoy the use of loan and
interest payments in the interval between collection from the enterprise and repayment to
the Ministry of Finance.
6.22  Operational risks arise in the industrial and environmental pollution control
components with the failure (documented in "China: Urban Environmental Services
Management") of many enterprises to operate their pollution abatement facilities. The
analysis addressed the risk that pollution abatement goals would not be met. Based on
the short-listed project designs, this risk is deemed to be very small for the reason that,
although not a requirement for access to the line-of-credit, the bulk of the proposed
investments are in process changes. The production process itself is inherently much
cleaner than the original process, leading to the pollution control gains
6.23   Major policy risks include possible resistance to timely implementation of the new
tariff structure. Failure to implement agreed tariffs would seriously impair the performance



- 52 -
incentives of the utilities and their ability to finance ongoing investment programs. To
mitigate this risk, a tariff increase before negotiation is being required and tariffs will be a
supervision focal point. The latter will be aided by the fact that service providers are
required to present annual accounts showing whether existing tariffs have met their
financial needs and to project tariff levels needed in the following year.
6.24   Significant regulatory risks also arise because the pollution control results
anticipated for the surface waters depend not only on sewerage technologies successfully
constructed and operated by the cities. Many important pollutants must be controlled at
source by the industries generating them. A failure to do so could threaten either the
sewerage infrastructure or the quality of the various lakes and rivers, depending on
enterprise discharge points. The principal means of mitigating this risk is a strong
regulatory regime. The importance of this work was recognized during preparation of the
project and is addressed under the environmental action plan (Annex 11).
6.25   The major risks to long term sustainability are financial and regulatory, and have
been discussed above. Additional risks arise from outside of the cities themselves and
center on polluting inputs to the various water bodies from areas beyond municipal
control. These additional pollutants could overwhelm any benefit that would otherwise
be realized by the planned investments. In the case of the network of waterways within
the cities, this risk is not great. Most of their watersheds are small, pollutants are of local
origin, and their control will be a function of the proper operation of the project.
However, the Han and Yangtze suffer from nonpoint source pollutants, particularly
agricultural, and carry substantial nutrient loads from upstream agriculture as well as
industrial pollution discharges. Satisfactory abatement of those polluting sources will
depend on the actions of a large number of political jurisdictions, most of which would
suffer no immediate harm from continued discharges to these rivers. The growing
appreciation within China of the importance of water pollution abatement offers the best
hope of inducing compliance with the current industrial regulations.  A  similar
appreciation of the risks from agriculture has yet to appear, and must become an element
of river basin quality control.



- 53 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   The following assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(a)   HPG would (i) carry out or cause to be carried out the agreed Environmental
Improvement Action Plan, including annual improvements in pollution levy
fee collection efficiency; meeting the discharge permit implementation
timetable; completing the agreed research program; and implementing the
staff training program; and (ii) report to the Bank/IDA, not later than June
30 of each year, on progress in meeting Plan goals and additional actions to
be taken to implement the Plan (para. 2.11);
(b)   Huangshi, Wuhan and Xiangfan municipalities would, by December 31,
1996, develop and thereafter implement a time-bound Action Plan
acceptable to the Bank/IDA for the connection to their municipal sewerage
system of all wastewater discharge from buildings and septic tanks located
within 100 meters of said system (para. 2.18);
(c)   HPG would onlend to industrial enterprises on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 3.8);
(d)   The municipalities would onlend the loan/credit proceeds to their respective
wastewater agencies, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank/IDA
(para. 3.8);
(e)   HP would onlend to participating enterprises, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 3.10);
(f)    HEPB would allocate to HEPCF about Y 45 million of pollution levy fees
over the three fiscal years commencing 1996, depositing annually with
HEPCF at least Y 15 million by June 30 of each such year (para. 3. 10);
(g)   HPG would carry out or cause to be carried out the resettlement of persons
affected by the project in a manner and according to the Resettlement Action
Plan satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 3.24);
(h)   HPG would cause the project agencies to carry out, in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank/IDA, the mitigation plans specified in the Environmental Impact
Assessment (para. 3.25);



- 54 -
(i)    Each implementing agency would prepare quarterly project progress reports;
HUEPO would then send a consolidated report to the Bank/IDA by the
thirtieth of the following month, commencing in January 1996 (para. 3.28);
(j)    HPG would (i) prepare, not later than six months after the Closing Date, or
such later date lo be agreed with the Bank/IDA, a plan for the future
operation of the project; and (ii) afford the Bank/IDA a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views on said plan (para. 3.28);
(k)   HPG would maintain HUEPO and the municipal project offices throughout
implementation, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank/IDA, and with competent staff in adequate numbers for the duration of
the project (para. 4.3);
(1)    HPG would follow or cause to be followed the procedures and criteria for
industrial subproject appraisal, satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 4.1 1);
(m)   HPG would arrange for the following annual audits to be submitted to the
Bank/IDA within six months after the end of the financial year: (i) audit of
the project accounts maintained by HUEPO; (ii) audit of the Special
Account; (iii) audit of statements of expenditure (SOE); (iv) audits of the
financial statements of the wastewater entities of Huangshi, Wuhan and
Xiangfan; and (v) audit of the financial statements of HEPCF (para. 5.7);
(n)   HPG would provide, or ensure that the municipalities provide, the necessary
counterpart funds for the execution of the project (para. 5.1 1);
(o)   Commencing with Fiscal Year 1996, HPG would cause the wastewater
entities of Huangshi, Wuhan and Xiangfan to (i) produce revenues from
their wastewater operations sufficient to cover their operations and
maintenance costs (including depreciation), and the amount by which debt
service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation; and (ii) incur no
additional debt without the Bank/IDA's agreement, unless a reasonable
forecast shows that the entities would have a debt service coverage of at
least 1.3 times (para. 5.15);
(p)   The wastewater companies would prepare, before September 30, 1996, and
in each of the following fiscal years, forecasts satisfactory to the Bank/IDA,
(i) to review whether they would meet the covenanted requirements set forth
above in such year and the following year; and (ii) to fumish the results of
such reviews to the Bank/IDA; if any such reviews would show that the
wastewater company would not meet the requirements set out above, the
company would take all necessary measures, including adjustments to the
structure of its tariffs and charges, in order to meet the requirements (para.
5.17); and



- 55 -
(q)   HPG  would ensure that Huangshi, Wuhan, Xiangfan, and Yichang
Municipalities each: (i) not later than April 1, 1997, complete a study of
the fees and user charges needed for the recovery of the full costs of
providing solid waste collection and disposal services to industrial and
commercial users; the report of that study shall include a detailed, time-
bound action plan, acceptable to the Bank/IDA, enabling such recovery as
of July 1, 1997; and (ii) thereafter implement the said action plan taking
into account the Bank/IDA's comments thereon (para. 5.21).
7.2   The last progress report of each year would include the latest project cost estimate
and financing plan for the following year, including HP's draft budget for local counterpart
funds (para. 3.28).
7.3   The following are conditions of loan/credit effectiveness:  (a) execution of
subsidiary loan agreements between the project municipalities and implementing
agencies, satisfactory to the Bank/IDA (para. 3.9); and (b) implementation of a
wastewater tariff of Y 0.1 8/m3 applicable to all residential and nonresidential wastewater
producers within the source areas of HMDC, WMWE and XMSC (para. 5.16).
7.4   The following are conditions of disbursement for the respective components:
(a)    Signature of a financial agency agreement with a bank, satisfactory to the
Bank/IDA, for the financial, economic and technical appraisal of subprojects
under the Industrial Pollution Control Line-of-Credit subcomponent [para.
3.22(a)];
(b)   Approval by the Bank/IDA of an operational manual for HEPCF, and the
execution of an acceptable financial agency agreement between HEPCF and
a bank for HEPCF subloan processing [para. 3.22(b)]; and
(c)    Completion  of a  satisfactory  feasibility  study, detailed  designs,
environmental assessment, and land acquisition and resettlement plan for a
proposed landfill in Xiangfan (para. 3.22).
7.5    With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for an IBRD
loan of $125 million equivalent for a period of 20 years, including five years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate, and an IDA credit of SDR 16.8 million ($25
million equivalent) at standard terms with 35 years' maturity, to the People's Republic of
China.



- 56 -



- 57-            ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: BACKGROUND TO HUBEI PROVINCE AND
PROJECT CITIES
Hubei Province
I.    Hubei Province is located in Central China and is bordered clockwise from the north
by the Provinces of Henan, Anhui, Jiangxi, Hunan, Sichuan and Shaanxi. It is traversed by
the mid-reaches of the Changjiang (Yangtze) River, the largest in the country. The
Province has a total land area of 186,000 km2 and a population of 55 million (1990), of
which about 15 million (27 percent) live in urban areas. While total population in the
Province has been growing at about 1.4 percent, nonagricultural population growth has been
about 8 percent a year since 1980. It ranks ninth among Chinese provinces and autonomous
regions in terms of population and aggregate GNP (Y 100 billion in 1992), and fourteenth
in terms of GNP per capita (Y 1,460).
2.    The topography of the Province is mountainous and hilly, except in the south. It has
a subtropical, hurnid, monsoonal climate with hot wet summers and dry winters. The
Province is prone to frequent droughts and floods. The average annual rainfall is 750 to
1.500 mm (30 to 59 inches). Although still predominately a rural province, industry
accounts for two thirds of Hubei's gross domestic output value, mainly from state-owned
enterprises that employ about two thirds of the industrial work force, mostly in heavy
industries, notably iron, steel, cement and chemicals.
luangshi
3.    Huangshi is located in the southeastem part of Hubei Province, on the south bank of
the middle reaches of the Changjiang (Yangtze) River and north of Huangjing Mountain,
and is the second largest city of the Province. Cihu, Daye and Quinshan Lakes lie in its
hinterland. There are four urban districts (Huangshigang, Shihuiyao, Xialu and Tieshan)
and one suburban county (Daye) in the city.
4.    The total municipal area is about 1,850 km2, of which the urban area is just under
10 percent. The total population is 1.35 million, of which the urban population is 510,000.
The 1-rban population density is around 3,000 persons per kmi2; the urban population is
expected to reach about 660,000 by year 2010.
5.    Historically, Huangshi was famous for its ore smelting. With the Daye steel plant,
an iron mine, a coal mine and a cement plant, it was among the pioneers of modem industry
in China. From this background, the city has developed an industrial base with a full range
of activities covering metallurgy, machinery, power generation, building materials and



- 58 -            ANNEX 1
textiles. The industrial output value was Y 3.3 billion in 1990; this is expected to reach
around Y 6.6 billion by year 2000.
6.    About 90 percent of the urban area in the vicinity of Shenyanggang Canal is served
by a piped combined wastewater and stormwater drainage system. A recently com3leted
secondary wastewater treatment plant in Huangshigang, with a capacity of 20,000 m /day,
is currently treating a mix of 70 percent industrial and 30 percent domestic wastewater. The
plant is operating at about 70 percent capacity. However, construction work is underway to
divert flows presently entering the northeast corner of Cihu Lake, to this treatment plant.
Untreated industrial effluent is currently being discharged into the southern area of Cihu
Lake, resulting in significant deterioration of the natural water quality and associated loss of
amenity to local residents. A major objective of the Huangshi Wastewater component is to
improve the water quality of Cihu Lake.
7.    The problems of solid waste and nightsoil management in Huangshi are typical of
those in Wuhan, Xiangfan and Yichang. While the primary collection systems are
effective, problems arise in the transfer, transport and disposal of the wastes. The handling
and uncontrolled disposal of wastes, often at illegal sites, pose health hazards to sanitation
department workers in particular, and to the public in general. Nightsoil is often applied
directly to fields before being allowed to digest in storage tanks. The major objectives of
the project cities' solid waste and nightsoil management components are, therefore, to
improve transfer facilities, transportation, and the ultimate disposal of wastes in an
environmentally acceptable manner.
Wuhan
8.    Wuhan is located in the east of Hubei Province in Central China and is the
Provincial capital. The Yangtze River enters the city from the southwest and the Han River
joins the Yangtze coming from the west. The two rivers divide the city into three parts:
Hankou, Wuchang and Hanyang. The city has seven urban districts (Jiangan, Jianhang,
Qiaokou, Hangyan, Wuchang, Quingshan and Hongshan), two suburban districts
(Dongxihu and Hannan) and four suburban counties (Wuchang, Huangpi, Hanyang and
Xinzhou). The area is generally flat with a large number of lakes. The highest point of the
city is Yujia Hill, 152 meters above sea level.
9.    The total municipal area is some 8,500 km2, of which the urban area is
approximately 10percent. The 1992 population of the municipality was about 6.8
million, of which the urban population was estimated to be 3.5 million. The urban
population density in the city is around 4,000 persons per km 2; the urban population is
expected to reach some 7.65 million by year 2000.
10.   Wuhan is a regional transportation center, located at the mid-point of the major
north-south rail line linking Beijing to Guangzhou. The Yangtze River is dredged to
provide a transportation route from Shanghai to Sichuan Province.



- 59 -           ANNEX 1
11.  In Wuhan there are some 4,500 industrial enterprises, making the city one of the
most important industrial centers in China. The main industries are iron and steel,
chemical, electronics, machinery and weaving. Wuhan Iron and Steel Works is one of the
largest in China, producing 7 million tons annually. The total industrial output was Y 22
billion in 1992, this is expected to increase tenfold by year 2010.
12.   About 60 percent of the urban area is served by a piped combined stormwater and
wastewater drainage system. Over 90 percent of the urban population is served by septic
tanks, with the effluent discharging to the combined system and open ditches. The
remaining population is served by water flush and dry pit communal public latrines.
13.   There are about 10 wastewater outfalls discharging directly into East Lake, which
is an existing source of municipal water supply. A further outfall, which accounted for
about 50 percent of the wastewater flows entering East lake, has now been diverted to the
Changjiang River.  A recently completed secondary wastewater treatment plant at
Waishahu, with a design capacity of 50,000 m3/d, was shut down a few weeks after
commissioning for lack of operating funds. One of the major objective of the Wuhan
Wastewater component is to improve the quality of the water body in East Lake.
Xiangfan
14.   Xiangfan, located in the northwestern part of Hubei Province, is a hub in the area
of four Provinces: Hubei, Henan, Sichuan and Shanxi. The city is divided in two
sections (Fancheng and Xiangyang) by the Han River, the largest tributary of the
Changjiang River, entering the city from the west. There are four urban districts
(Xiangcheng, Fandong, Fanxi and Jiaoqu) and two development zones (Xiangfan
Automobile Industry Zone and Fandong New Hi-Tech Zone). The area of Xiangfan is
generally flat.
15.   The total municipal area and population are 326 km and 584,000, respectively, of
which the urban area and population are 40 km2 and 475,000, respectively. The urban
2
population density is just under 12,000 persons per km .
16.   More than 80 percent of the existing urban area are served by a combined storm
and wastewater system. Over 80 percent of the population are served by septic tanks.
Fancheng, on the north side of the Han River, is divided into five drainage areas, three of
which discharge mainly domestic waste directly into the Han River. The remaining two
areas, Quinghekou and Qilihe, discharge predominantly industrial waste to the Qili and
Xiaoqing Rivers, which drain into the Han River. The Qili and Xiaoqing Rivers are
highly polluted.
17.   Xiangcheng, on the south side of the Han River, has three drainage systems, two
of which discharge to the river. The third system, in the old city area, discharges into the
city moat, which has, as a result, become highly polluted.



- 60 -           ANNEX 1
18.   There are two industrial wastewater treatment plants in Xiangfan, each of
10,000 m3/d capacity. Both plants are owned by textile factories, but operated by the
Xiangfan Environmental Protection Bureau.  Effluent from these plants, which is
understood to comply with Chinese national standards, is discharged to the Qili River.
19.   Planned development to the north and west of Fancheng will add further waste
loads to Qili River. A major objective of the project, therefore, is to address water quality
in this river, as well as Xiaoqing River and the city moat.
Yichang
20.   Yichang is located in the westem part of Hubei Province on the middle-upper
reaches of Changjiang River and is the location of the Three Gorges Dam and Ge7houba
Hydraulic Conservancy Project. The city is divided into two parts by the Changjiang
River and has three urban districts, Xiling, Wujia and Dianjun. The urban area is long
and narrow and the region is hilly, between mountainous land and the plains.
21.   The total municipal area is about 33 kin2, with the urban area covering 29 kM2, or
about 88 percent of total area. The total population is approximately 479,000, of whom
391,000 are classified as urban. The population density in the urban area is 13,000
persons per km .
22.   Yichang is a major Chinese scenic area and also the country's largest Hydraulic
Conservancy location. Tourism will gain increasing importance with the construction of
the Three Gorges Dam. The main industries are power generation, machinery, textile,
electronics, metallurgical and various light industries.
23.   The existing urban area is served by a combined storm and wastewater system,
except for new development areas (e.g., Dongshan Economic Development Zone), where
separate sewerage and drainage systems are being constructed.  Wastes from this
development zone are presently being discharged to the Yuen River, with the possibility
of compromising the city's No. I water supply intake. Waste discharges from elsewhere
in the city to the Changjiang River could compromise the No. 2 water supply intake. The
objective of Yichang's Wastewater component would be to collect effluent for discharge
into the Changjiang downstream from the existing intakes.



- 61-                      ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
I.    The components of the proposed project investments are described in detail below
and summarized in tabular form.
A. HUANGSHI
Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
2.    Huangshi City includes a number of scenic lakes, of which the largest freshwater
lakes are Cihu Lake with a total surface area of approximately 8.4 km2 and Daye Lake
about 12 km south of the central urban area with a total surface area of approximately
57 km2. The present total wastewater flow of the city is about 500,000 m3/d, consisting of
29 percent domestic and 71 percent industrial flows. Cihu Lake carries about 150,000 m3/d
(30 percent) of the total urban wastewater, and the south arm is severely polluted, mainly by
industrial wastes. The existing wastewater treatment plant at Huangshigang deals with
about 20,000 m3/d from the Huangshigang catchment. The wastewater flow in 2010 is
estimated at about 510,000 m3/d. The proposed municipal wastewater master plan for
Huangshi urban area for year 2010 includes construction of a major wastewater collection
and treatment facility to be built at Chenjiawan to deal with the waste flows from
Shenyanggang, Chenjiawan, Tuanchenshan and Lao Xialu areas. Small systems would be
built to cover the separate Huahu and Xizai catchments; all these wastewater systems would
discharge into the Yangtze River. The Master Plan proposes that the wastewater from the
separate minor catchments of Tieshan, Xialu and Shannan would be treated separately
before being discharged southward to the Daye Lake.
3.    The Hluangshi wastewater component is designed to address the pollution of Cihu
Lake, which is a shallow lake located immediately adjacent to the principal urban area and
central business district of Huangshi and is an attractive shoreline readily accessible to large
numbers of urban dwellers. Its beneficial uses are passive recreation, swimming, fishing
and boating. At present, the lake receives substantial quantities of untreated domestic
sewage and industrial wastewater, and is significantly polluted; also, the excessive
concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus in the water have accelerated the rate of
eutrophication and the natural water quality has been progressively degraded.
4.    The Chenjiwan wastewater system, which is the first priority component of
Huangshi's master plan, provides for the collection, treatment, and disposal of municipal
wastewater currently discharged to Cihu Lake. This wastewater system includes three trunk
sewers collecting municipal wastewater from the northern, central and southern sections of
the catchmnent area; with preliminary treatment, prior to discharge to the Yangtze River via



- 62 -                     ANNEX2
the existing Shanyanggang canal, thus preventing the continued discharge of untreated
municipal wastewater to Cihu Lake. The effective management of further nutrient addition
to the lake would reduce the rate of eutrophication, thereby improving the water quality in
the Lake to enhance the amenity, recreational and land use values of surrounding areas.
Due to financial constraints, only the first phase of the system, comprising the southem
interceptor and preliminary treatment would be implemented under the project.
5.    Proposed Component ($11.9 million). The proposed component would comprise
the following works:
(a)   Chenjianwan Southern Trunks and Interceptors including about 6 km of
sewers ranging in size from about 1,200 to 1,500 mm diameter. Miaopu and
Yegang pump stations of about 68,000 and 96,000 m3/d capacity, and force
mains of about 1,000 mm diameter.
(b)   Southern Collection Sewers including about 9 km of sewers ranging from
about 400 to 800 mm diameter to discharge to southem trunk sewers.
(c)   Chenjianwan  Preliminary  Treatment Plant and  Pump  Station
comprising screens, grit removal facilities, pumping equipment of about
160,000 m3/d capacity, and 1.1 km delivery main of about 1,600 mm
diameter to discharge treated effluent to the Shanyanggang canal.
Municipal Wastes Management
6.    The objective of this component is to improve the primary collection system by the
construction of small transfer stations, provision of additional trucks for transport of solid
waste from transfer stations to landfill and the replacement of open collection trucks by
larger closed compactor vehicles for areas where waste is picked up from collection points
for direct delivery to landfill.  For final disposal, the first stage of a move from
semicontrolled landfill to fully controlled landfill operation meeting state-approved
standards will be taken by the provision of a new landfill at Xisai. To improve nightsoil
and sludge collection, vacuum trucks will be provided.
7.    The new landfill will be controlled and operated by the Huangshi City Appearance
and Environmental Sanitation Bureau (HCA&ESB), which is responsible to the Huangshi
Urban Construction Commission (HUCC) for the management of municipal solid waste
and nightsoil collection and disposal. The urban district environmental sanitation bureaus
(ESBs) of Huangshi, Shihuiyao, Xialu and Tieshan will continue to be responsible for
providing municipal solid waste and nightsoil collection services and street sweeping.
Industrial and commercial enterprises and institutions will retain the responsibility for
transportation and disposal of their own wastes, but may request the ESBs to provide these
services on payment of the appropriate service fees.



- 63 -                      ANNEX2
8.    Proposed Component ($4.5 million). The component would comprise:
(a)    Transfer Stations: construction of 10 small mechanical-loading transfer
stations to accept municipal solid waste from hand carts and small collection
vehicles for transfer to large trucks for transportation to final disposal sites.
Design capacity of the stations will be in the order of 50 tons to 100 tons per
day (tpd), related to the waste generation area to be served. Sites have
already been identified on land owned by the city government.
(b)    Collection  Vehicles:  (i) for solid waste collection and disposal:
procurement of four compactor collection vehicles with a carrying capacity
of approximately 8 tons for direct delivery of municipal solid waste from
collection points to landfill, 12 5-ton capacity trucks for secondary
transportation of waste from  transfer stations and  20 0.5-ton small
collection trucks to provide primary collection services in selected areas
with restricted access; and (ii) for nightsoil and sludge collection and
disposal: procurement of 12 vacuum trucks.
(c)    Sanitary Landfill:  site preparation works and construction of a new
sanitary landfill to national standards at a 12.4 ha site of mainly derelict land
at Xisai, adjoining a large chemical plant. The valley site has a volume of
some 1.25 million m 3 and, with the proposed design capacity of around
150 tpd rising to 300 tpd, would have an estimated life of at least 15 years.
The preliminary design includes provision of gas and leachate treatment
systems, site offices, weighbridge, maintenance and labor facilities, a 5 m-
wide all-weather access road of some 1.2 km, a steel-wheeled compactor for
consolidation of the waste, and two small bulldozers, three 5-ton dump
trucks for moving and spreading covering material.
(d)   Institutional Development and Training: provision will be made for
institutional development and practical training of both management and
operational personnel, with particular attention being given to the control,
management and monitoring necessary to effectively operate a sanitary
landfill.
B. WUHAN
Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
9.    Wuhan Wuchang Central Wastewater System. The Wuhan Wuchang central
wastewater component is designed to address the pollution of the East Lake, which is the
source of drinking water for the population of the lake area, and with banks extending over
111.5 km, is one of the most important scenic attractions in Wuhan. It is also used for
recreational purposes and fish farming, as well as being the site for research on aquatic
ecology. The lake has been receiving substantial quantities of municipal and industrial
wastewater for many years, currently estimated at 180,000 m3/d. The lake is significantly



- 64 -                     ANNEX2
polluted and has thick deposits of sludge on the bottom, which contains high concentrations
of heavy metals, nutrients and other contamninants.
10.   The component provides for the collection, treatment, and disposal of municipal
wastewater currently discharged to the lake, and, in Stage I, provides for the interception of
all wastewater and primary treatment augmentation at the existing Shahu plant, new
Erlangmiao and Longwanzui wastewater collection and primary treatment facilities.
Effluents from the facilities flow, respectively, to the Luojiagang Canal for discharge to the
Yangtze River and to Nanhu Lake to significantly improve water quality in the Lake to
facilitate the continued use of the resource for municipal water supply and to enhance
amenity value. Municipal service delivery would be improved for about 0.9 million
persons presently living in the catchment area. In order to prevent drawdown of the water
level in East Lake, water balance facilities from the Yangtze River would be provided.
11.   Hankou Wastewater System.  The Hankou wastewater system provides for
additional wastewater collection and preliminary treatmnent facilities in West Hankou, with
effluent discharge to the Fu River, to improve the standard of municipal services for this
major center of population currently experiencing rapid urban development. Risks to public
health would be reduced and the standard of amenity improved in a densely populated
urban area, thus benefiting some 800,000 persons.
12.   Hanyang Wastewater System. Wastewater from the predominantly industrial area
of Hanyang is presently discharged untreated into the Moshui Lake, where water quality is
poor (below Class V Chinese Standard). This shallow lake provides beneficial uses
including fish farming, and important recreational facilities at the adjacent zoological
gardens. The Hanyang system would provide wastewater collection, preliminary treatment
and effluent disposal facilities, improving the Moshui Lake beneficial use and providing
improved municipal service to some 200,000 inhabitants in the Nantaizihu Lake catchment.
13.   Proposed Component ($124.5 million). The proposed component would comprise
the following works:
Wuchang System
(a)   Shahu Wastewater System including the construction of about 16 km of
300 to 1,200 mm diameter sewers, pump stations, and Shahu primary
treatment plant, extending the treatment capacity from 50,000 currently to
I 00,000 m3/d.
(b)   Erlangmiao Wastewater System  including the construction of about
16 km of sewers of 300 to 2,000 mm diameter, and culverts, and Erlangmiao
primary treatment plant and facilities of about 180,000 m3/d capacity.
(c)   Effluent Discharge Culvert for Shahu and Erlangmiao  systems,
comprising about 4.3 km of pipes and culverts, together with effluent
discharge arrangements.



- 65 -                     ANNEX2
(d)   Longwangzui Wastewater System including the construction of about
32 km of sewers, and force mains, in sizes about 300 to 1,800 mm diameter,
and several pump stations of about 160,000 m3/d total capacity.
(e)   Longwangzui Wastewater Treatment Plant comprising primary treatmcnt
and associated sludge facilities of about 150,000 m3/d capacity, together
with effluent discharge arrangements.
(f)    East Lake Water Balance System comprising a floating pump station on
Yangtze River of about 200,000 m3/d capacity, force main, control gates,
sedimentation facilities on Luojia Canal, and outlet to East Lake.
Hankou System
(g)   Hankou West Wastewater System comprising about 6 km of culverts of
reinforced concrete and brick, or other construction material, in sizes in the
range 1.8 m x 1.5 m high to 4.2 m x 2.2 m high; about 10 km of connecting
sewers, in sizes between 300 to 1,000 in diameter; about 7.5 km of open-
channel construction with control gates, pump station and preliminary
treatment plant of about 400,000 m3/d capacity, and effluent discharge
channel to Fu River.
Hanyang System
(h)   Nantaizihu Wastewater System comprising about 6 km of sewers of sizes
300 to 1,800 mm diameter and culverts of reinforced concrete and brick
construction in sizes in the range 2.0 m x 1.7 m high to 3.8 m x 2.5 m high,
pump station and preliminary treatment plant at Nantaizihu of about
100,000 m3/d capacity, effluent discharge main, outfall pump station of
capacity about 100,000 m3/d, and outfall to Yangtze River.
Municipal Wastes Management
14.   The objective of this component is to improve the primary collection system by the
provision of large capacity compactor vehicles for business, commercial and modem
residential areas where wastes can be picked up from collection points for direct delivery to
landfill. For final disposal, an existing semicontrolled landfill at Jinkou will be extended.
The existing area will be upgraded where possible and the extended area will be operated to
national standards.
15.   The landfill will be controlled and operated by the Wuhan Environmental Sanitation
Bureau (WESB), which is responsible to the Wuhan Urban Construction Commission
(WUCC) for the management of municipal solid waste and nightsoil collection and
disposal. The city's seven urban district ESBs will continue to be responsible for providing
municipal solid waste and nightsoil collection services and street sweeping, under the
guidance and supervision of WESSB. Industrial and commercial enterprises and institutionrs



- 66 -                      ANNEX2
will retain the responsibility for transportation and disposal of their own wastes but may
request the ESBs to provide these services on payment of the appropriate service fees.
16.   Proposed Component ($18.0 million). The proposed component is as follows:
(a)   Collection Vehicles: procurement of about 30 closed-compactor collection
vehicles with a can-ying capacity of approximately 8 tons for direct delivery
of wastes from collection points to landfill.
(b)   Sanitary Landfill: site preparation works, construction and upgrading of
an existing landfill to national standards by extending the site area by
40.0 ha, with the possibility of a further future extension to 93.3 ha. With a
total volume of 8.5 million m3, the proposed daily input rising from the
present 750 tpd to 2,000 tpd would give an estimated life of some 15 years.
The preliminary design includes provision of gas and leachate treatment
systems, site offices, weighbridge, maintenance and labor facilities.
Proposed equipment includes two steel-wheeled compactors for
consolidation of the waste, two tracked excavators, four bulldozers, three
loading shovels, six 5-ton dump trucks for excavating, moving and
spreading covering material, one car, and, for site supervision and general
duties, one pickup truck and a personnel carrier.
(c)   Institutional Development and Training: provision will be made for
institutional development and practical training of both management and
operational personnel, with particular attention being given to the control,
management and monitoring necessary to effectively operate a sanitary
landtill.
C. XIANGFAN
Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
17.   Xiangfan City is situated mainly on the banks of the Han River with some
development spreading up the Tangbai, Xiaoqing and Qili Rivers. The central urban
districts are divided by the Han River into the southern, mainly residential and old town
area of Xiangcheng and the northern, predominantly industrial and commercial area of
Fancheng. Wastewater from five combined sewer systems in Fancheng is discharged
directly to the Han River through six outlets along the left bank of the River and via the Qili
and Xiaoqing Rivers. Sewerage from three drainage systems in Xiangcheng is discharged
to the old moat and Nanqu ditch and ultimately to the Han River. The present urban
wastewater flow is around 500,000 m3/d, comprising about 40 percent domestic flow and
60 percent from industrial sources. Three existing treatment plants, with a combined
capacity of about 40,000 m3/d, are located in Fancheng and Youfanfgang (20,000 m3/d).
The average wastewater flow in 2010 is projected around 1,000,000 m /d.



- 67 -                     ANNEX2
18.   The Xiangfan Wastewater Master Plan includes the proposed Xiangfan central
urban wastewater system, which covers the areas of Fancheng and Xiangfen. This proposed
scheme would intercept the wastewater from the existing combined sewers in these areas,
provide collector systems discharging to a treatment facility to be established on
Yuliangzhou Island, which is located on the east side of the Han River. The master plan
proposes that wastewater from the outlying areas of Youfanggang, Zhangwan, Dongjin and
Yujiahu would be provided with separate collection and treatment systems to intercept
municipal wastewater flows, which presently discharge to the Han, Qili, and Xiaoqing
Rivers; the Moat and Nanqu ditch.
19.   The objective of this component, which is the first phase of an integrated program,
is to provide improved municipal services and environmental conditions for about 250,000
persons in the most densely populated (Fancheng) area of the city, through effective
wastewater interception, treatment and disposal. The component would significantly reduce
pollution of the Xiaoqing and Qilihe Rivers, thereby reducing the risk of contamination of
water supply intakes located on the Han River.
20.   Proposed Component ($48.0 million). The proposed component would comprise
the following works:
(a)   Fancheng Interceptor and Sewer System comprising about 14 km of
trunk sewers ranging in size from 600 to 2,000 mm diameter, about 6 km of
culvert in sizes between 1.4 m x 1.2 m high and 3.2 m x 2.0 m high, pump
station of about 525,000 m3/d capacity, access bridge across Han River to
Yuliangzhou Island, and about 3 km of 2,200 mm diameter force main.
(b)   Yuliangzhou Preliminary Treatment Plant comprising screening, grit
removal facilities of about 600,000 m3/d capacity, and outfall of about
1,800 mm diameter to Han River.
Municipal Wastes Management
21.   The objectives of this component are to improve the efficiency and environmental
standards of waste collection and disposal. To help achieve this, 16 transfer stations will be
constructed. The first phase of a new landfill will be constructed at a site yet to be finalized,
in the northem area of the city to supplement the present semicontrolled landfill at
Huoshishan in the south. The new landfill will be designed and operated to approved
national standards.
22.   The landfill will be controlled and operated by the Xiangfan Environmental
Sanitation Department (XESD), which is responsible to the Xiangfan Urban Construction
Commission (XUCC) for the management of municipal solid waste and nightsoil collection
and disposal. The city's three urban district ESBs will continue to be responsible for
providing these services and street sweeping, under the guidance and supervision of XESD.
Industrial and commercial enterprises and institutions will retain the responsibility for



- 68 -                      ANNEX2
transportation and disposal of their own wastes, but may request the ESBs to provide these
services on payment of the appropriate service fees.
23.   Proposed Component ($5.4 million). The proposed solid waste management
component is as follows:
(a)    Sanitary Landfill: site preparation works and construction a new landfill to
national standards at a site north of the city. The preliminary design
standards include provision of gas and leachate treatment systems, site
offices, weighbridge, site and vehicle maintenance and labor facilities and an
all-weather access road. For site operations, one steel-wheeled compactor
for consolidation of the wastes, one bulldozer, one loading shovel, and three
5-ton dump trucks for excavating and spreading will be provided, together
with one car, one pickup truck and one personnel carrier for supervision and
general duties.
(b)   Transfer Stations: Construction of about 16 transfer stations.
(c)    Collection Vehicles: Procurement of about 45 collection vehicles.
(d)   Institutional Development and Training: provision will be made for
institutional development and practical training of both management and
operational personnel, with particular attention being given to the control,
management and monitoring necessary to effectively operate a sanitary
landfill.
1). YICHANG
Municipal Wastes Management
24.   The objectives of this component are to improve the efficiency and environmental
standards of waste disposal. In addition to nightsoil and sludge collection upgrading, the
first phase of a new landfill will be constructed at Huangjiawan, in the north of the city, to
supplement the present semicontrolled landfill at Ganxigou in the central area. The new
landfill will be designed and operated to national standards.
25.   The landfill will be controlled and operated by the Yichang Environmental
Sanitation Department (YESD), which is responsible to the Yichang Urban Construction
Commission (YUCC) for the management of municipal solid waste and nightsoil collection
and disposal. The city's three urban district ESDs will continue to be responsible for
providing these services and street sweeping, under the guidance and supervision of YESD.
Industrial and commercial enterprises and institutions will retain responsibility for the
transportation and disposal of their own wastes, but may request the ESDs to provide these
services on payment of the appropriate service fees.



- 69 -                      ANNEX2
26.   Proposed Component ($9.1 million). The proposed component is as follows:
(a)   Sanitary Landfill:  site preparation works and construction of a new
landfill to national standards at Huangjiawan, some 8 km from the city
center. The site has a surface area of some 20.0 ha and a volume of
2.8 million m3. At the proposed design capacity of 420 tpd rising to 500 tpd,
this would give an estimated life of some 15 years. The preliminary design
includes provision of gas and leachate treatment and monitoring systems,
site offices, weighbridge, maintenance and labor facilities and a 2.5 km all-
weather access road. For site operations, one steel-wheeled compactor for
consolidation of the waste, one bulldozer, one loading shovel and three 5-ton
dump trucks for excavating and spreading cover will be provided, together
with one 4-four-wheel-drive jeep and one personnel carrier for supervision
and general duties.
(b)   Vacuum Trucks for Nightsoil and Sludge Collection: purchase of five
trucks
(c)   Institutional Development and Training: provision will be made for
institutional development and practical training of both management and
operational personnel, with particular attention being given to the control,
management and monitoring necessary to effectively operate a sanitary
landfill.
E. INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL SUBPROJECTS
27.   The industrial pollution control subprojects have been designed to achieve both
pollution reduction and improvements in operational efficiency through structural
transformation to efficient and low polluting technologies, waste minimization/reuse and, as
appropriate, product upgrading. The component would assist targeted large-scale industrial
enterprises to bring their effluent discharge to comply with national, or local, standards in a
cost-effective manner.
28.   A pipeline of large-scale projects, amounting to about $50 million of subloans, has
been screened by the Bank/IDA and certified by the local EPBs as requiring immediate
cleanup measures. A line-of-credit of $45 million would be provided under the proposed
Bank Loan/IDA Credit to help finance the subloans. The proposed Bank/IDA-financed
subloan for each subproject would be limited to 100 percent of foreign exchange c -sts, or
50 percent of total subproject costs, whichever is higher.
29.   Subproject Appraisal Arrangements.  The environmental/technical appraisal
would include (a) an assessment of the subproject's consistency with the municipal
environmental strategy and its priority; (b) the impact of the proposed subproject on
pollution prevention and reduction; and (c) compliance with national/local environmental
regulations. The economic appraisal would have to demonstrate that (a) all feasible options
for pollution reduction have been examined and that the solution proposed is the most cost-



- 70 -                     ANNEX2
effective; and (b) the enterprises generating the pollution are economically viable. The
financial appraisal would assess the financial viability of the enterprises and test the debt
service coverage ratio of the enterprises, which should be no less than 1.4 times. The
Bank/IDA would review all subproject appraisal reports in full, including two during
project appraisal, to assure itself of the quality of the appraisal reports submitted.
F. HUBEI ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION CONTROL FUND
30.   Proposed Component ($5.0 million). This component would provide loan funds
to finance small-scale, high environmental impact investments in clean technology process
change, supporting the core investments in air and wastewater management. These finds,
together with funds now generated through HEPB-administered pollution levy fees, would
be administered by HEPB, through the segregated accounts and independent operating rules
of HEPCF. The appraisal arrangements for these investments parallel those for the
Industrial Pollution Control component given in the previous paragraph.
G. WATER QUALITY MONITORING AND MANAGEMENT
31.   Proposed Component ($2.9 million). The objective of this component is to
upgrade the facilities and strengthen the management of (a) the Hubei Environmental
Monitoring Center (HEMC); and (b) the Wuhan Environmental Monitoring Center
(WEMC). Specifically, the project will help to improve the facilities of HEMC and WEMC
through upgrading of lighting, heating and airconditioning, doors, windows, flooring,
fumehoods and benches. Laboratory and field equipment, and computer hardware and
software for improved data management, would be procured. There would also be
provision for training and technology transfer.
H. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
32.   Proposed Component ($10.2 million). The component would comprise three
main packages described below, together Nvith an allowance for future project preparation.
Details are set out below in the Technical Assistance and Training Table, showing
estimated local and international person-months and other supporting related inputs. The
scope of work and Draft Terms of Reference (TORs) for the main assignments were
reviewed by the Bank/IDA, and are in the Project File.
Package A: Financial Management Services And Training
33.   Objectives. The objective of Package A, the Financial Management Services and
Training package of the Technical Assistance and Training component is to:
(a)   Strengthen the financial management of HUEP wastewater, solid waste and
nightsoil management, and the related municipal bureaus and divisions.
(b)   Strengthen the overall provincial financial management and policy-making
in Hubei Province.



- 71-                      ANNEX2
34.   Scope of Work. The services to be provided under this assignment are for a
substantial consulting assignment, and would include:
(a)   Provision of accounting systems, management information systems and
training in wastewater, solid waste and nightsoil management operations,
and computer training for accounting staff.
(b)   Wastewater, solid waste and nightsoil management utility pricing.
(c)   Provincial financial management.
Package B: Technical Management Services And Training
35.   Objectives. The objective of Technical Package B of the Technical Assistance and
Training component is to ensure the efficient implementation of HUEP while strengthening
sector institutions.
36.   Scope of Work. The services to be provided under this assignment are for a
substantial consulting assignment and would include:
(a)   Quality assurance training for materials production.
(b)   Assistance to improve products technology.
(c)   Wastewater Treatment Plant operations training.
(d)   Solid Waste Management operations training.
(e)   Construction management and supervision.
(f)   Skills upgrading for planning and analysis of development options.
(g)   Xiangfan Wastewater Pilot Treatment study.
Package C: Environmental Strengthening
37.   Objectives. The objective of Package C of the Technical Assistance and Training
component is to support implementation of the Environmental Improvement Action Plan
(see Annex I1). which seeks to improve environmental quality management, monitoring
and control.
38.   Scope of Work. Two elements of the Environmental Improvement Action Plan
will be supported under this package:
(a)   Research in key environmental control problem areas, including township
and village enterprises; effectiveness of the discharge permit system; and
pollution control technologies for small-scale paper and chemical industries.



- 72 -                     ANNEX2
(b)   Training for provincial, municipal, and county EPB staff. This includes
training at the provincial, national, and international level.
Package D: Other: Future Project Preparation
39.   This would provide for the formulation and preparation of fuiture investment
projects yet unidentified.



- 73 -                                ANNEX2
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Component          Location             Description         Capacity/Size            Function
IIUANGSIII SOLID WASTE
Xisai Landfill    East of Huangshi,   Construction of new   14.1 ha and        To serve the eastern dis-
near the Inorganic  landfill and provision  1,380,000 m       trict of Huangshi with
Salt Plant         of leachate and gas                       about 150,000 inhabitants
treatment.                                and a daily waste col-
lection of about 250 tons
l________________  rising  to  300  tons.
I0 transfer     throughout the      Enclosed mechanical    60 t/d             The stations will increase
stations         city               system transfer sta-                      the efficiency of waste
tions.                                    removal from the city.
Collection and    throughout the    5-ton trucks for        5-ton: 12          To increase the efficiency
transportation   city               transfer stations. 8-ton   8-ton: 4        of transportation and for
vehicles                            and 0.5-ton trucks for    0.5-ton: 20      direct transportation to
collection.                               landfills from the col-
lection points.
Vacuum trucks   throughout the      Provide trucks for      5-ton: 8           To provide additional
city               nightsoil sludge        2-ton: 4          transport facility for
removal.                                  removal of approximately
80-90 t/d including 40 tVd
from public latrines.
HUANGSHI WASTEWATER
South collector   South side of     Reinforced concrete     5.21 km DN400    To convey wastewater
sewers           railway            rubber ring jointed     0.60 km DN500    from areas south of the
connecting to      gravity pipeline        0.93 km DN600    railway to Chenjiawan
South trunk sewer   systems.               1.50 km DN800    treatment works.
South trunk      South shore of     Reinforced concrete     2.06 km DN1200   To convey wastewater
sewer            Cihu Lake to       rubber ring jointed     3.80 km DN 1400   from the southern shore of
Chenjiawan         gravity pipeline.       0.17 km DNI500   the lake (and ultimately
treatment works                                              from Liaoxialu) to South
trunk sewer.
Miaopu pump    Miaopu               Reinforced concrete     Station capacity    To elevate incoming
station                             wet well/dry well       68,000 m /d        wastewater in order to
station. 3 No. radial                     maintain reasonable
flow units.                               excavation depths for
I No. mechanically                        South trunk sewer.
raked inlet screen.
Nliaopu          From Miaopu        Prestressed concrete    0.59 km DN900    To reduce construction
deliverv main    pump station       pressure pipeline.                         cost over distance where
gravity sewer not
required.
Yegang pump    Yegang               Reinforced concrete     Station capacity    To elevate incoming
station                             wet well/dry well       96,000 m /d        wastewater to maintain
station. 4 No. radial                     reason-able excavation
flow units. I No.                         depths for South trunk
mechanically raked                        sewer.
inlet screen.
Yegang           From Yegang        Prestressed concrete    0.16 km DNI000   To reduce construction
delivcrv main    pump station       pressure pipeline.                         cost over distance where
gravity sewer not
required.
Inlet pump       Chenjiawan         Reinforced concrete     Station cap3acity    To elevate incoming
station                             wet well/dry well       135,000 m /d       wastewater into the
station. 3 No. radial                     Chenjiawan treatment
flow units. I No.                         works.
mechanically raked
screen.
Chenjianwan      Chenjiawan         Preliminary treatment    Works cap?citv    To remove gross solids
preliminary                         comprising screening    160,000 m /d       and grit from wastewater.
treatment                           and grit removal.
works
Outfall delivery   Chenjiawan from  Prestressed concrete    1.10 km DN1600   lo convey treated waste-
main            treatment works to  gravity pipeline.                          water to Shenyanggang
Shenyanggang                                                 canal for disposal
l _______________  canal                 .                                                              l



- 74 -                                ANNEX2
Com onent          Location             Descri tion        Capacity/Size            Function
WUHAN
Wuhan Solid Waste
Jinkou Landfill   Northwest of       First phase of exten-  40 hi and 6.6    To serve the district of
Hankou             sion of existing landfill   M m         Qiaokou and Jiangshan,
and include provision                   with over 900,000
of a) leachate and gas                 inhabitants and a daily waste
collection and treat-                   collection capacity of 2000
ment, and b) sanitary                   tons.
and monitoring equip-
ment.
Closed           mainly for          For use in commercial   8-ton: 30       To increase the efficiency of
compression      Qiaokou and        and new residential                      transportation and for direct
trucks           Jiangshan districts  areas where access is                 transportation to landfills
good and waste density                  from the collection points.
is low.
WUHAN WASTEWATER
Shahu
Municipal        Shahu              Reinforced concrete     0.2 km 900       To convey domestic and
Interceptor                         pipe or other pipe      mm dia           industrial wastewater to
Sewer                               materials in sizes be-  1.33 km 1,200   treatment plant at Shahu.
tween 900 and 1,200    mm dia
mm dia of about 1.5
l ______________  __________________   km     total  length
Connection       Shahu              Reinforced concrete     1.0 km 600       To convey wastewater to
sewer                               pipe or other pipe      mm dia          interceptor system
materials in sizes be-  0.73 km 700
tween 600 & 1,000      mm dia
mm dia. of about 3.3   0.21 km 800
km total length        mm dia
1.35 km 1,000
mm dia
House branch     Shahu              Reinforced concrete     11.567 km       To convey wastewater to
sewers                              pipe or other pipe      300-500 mm      collector system
materials in sizes be-  dia
tween 300 and 500 mm
l ____________ _                 _   dia
Wastewater       Shahu              Wastewater treatment    50,000 m31d,    To treat domestic and
treatment plant                     plant comprising        added to        industrial wastewater to
pumps, screens, grit   existing         acceptable quality for
removal, primary clari-  50,000 m /d    discharge to Yangtze
fication, sludge thick-    activated
ening, sludge          sludge
dewatering, sludge     secondary
stabilization/removal    treatment                                 l
Effluent         Shahu              Reinforced concrete     0.61 km 2,000   To convey treated effluent
pipeline                            pipe or other pipe      mm dia          from Shahu and Erlangmiao
materials, 2,000 mm    3.725 km 4.5     wastewater treatment plants
dia; box culvert, 4.5 m    m*2.0 m      to discharge in Yangtze
wide*2.0 m high; cul-
vert inlet, outlet; out-
fall, 2,000 mm dia;
l _____________                      6.000  m3 dredging                                                 l
Erlangmiao
Municipal        Erlangmiao         Reinforced concrete     4.0 km          To convey domestic and
interceptor                         pipe or other pipe                       industrial wastewater to
sewer                               materials in sizes bet-                  Erlangmiao treatment plant
ween 1,000 and 2,000
mm dia of about 4.0
l____________    _ l  |km    total  length  l_l_l
Municipal        Erlangmiao         Reinfbrced concrete     2.9 km 1.800    To convey domestic and
interceptor                         pipe or other pipe      mm dia           industrial wastewater to
sewer                               materials of 1.800 mm    0.72 km 3.3     Erlangmiao treatment plant
dia and box culverts,  m* 1.5 m
3.3 m wide* 1.5 m high
of about 3.6 km total
________________   I ________________ _    2 length        l   _l_l



- 75 -                                 ANNEX2
Component           Location             Description         Capacity/Size            Function
Link sewers      Erlangmiao           Reinforced concrete     8.5 km           ro convey wastewater to
and collectors                        pipe or other pipe                       interceptor sewers
materials of sizes be-
tween 300 and 900 mm
dia of about 8.5 km
total length
Wastewater       Erlangmiao          Wastewater treatment    180,000 m'/d    To treat domestic and
treatment plant                       plant comprising                         industrial wastewater prior
pumps, screens, grit                     to discharge to Yangtze
removal, primary clar-
fication, sludge thick-
ening, sludge dewater-
ing, sludge stabili-
_______________  __________________   zation/rem oval        I_I
Longwanitzui
Main sewer       Guanshanyand,        Reinforced concrete     21.4 km          To convey domestic and
Wuhuang,            pipe or other pipe                       industrial wastewater to the
Nanhubei, Luoyu    materials in sizes                        Longwangzui treatment
roads               between 300 and 1800                     plant
mm dia, and DN350-
500 mm pressure pipe
of about 21.4 km total
length
Branch sewer    Nanhubei Road,        Reinforced concrete     10.7 km          To convey wastewater to
Guanshanyiganda    pipe or other pipe                        main sewer
o, Wuhuang Road   materials in sizes
between 300 and 700
mm dia, and DN600
pressure pipe of about
=        -____________    ________________  10.7  km   total length  I
Pump station     Hongjinghuayuan    Reinforced concrete       25,920 m"/d      To lift wastewater towards
structure with 3 no                      Longwangzui treatment
pump sets each 75                        plant
kW*28 m head
capacity, ancillary
____ ____ ____  I______  equipment           _                _
Pump station     Guandongxingong   Reinforced concrete        25,920 m'/d      To lift wastewater towards
structure with 3 no                      Longwangzui treatment
yeyuan              pump sets each 90                        plant
kW*40.5 m head
capacity, ancillary
I ______________  I ___________ I_____  equipm ent           I   _I_I
Pump station     Luxiang             Reinforced concrete      51,840 m'/d      To lift wastewater towards
structure with 3 no                      Longwangzui treatment
pump sets each 110                       plant
kW*21 m head
capacity, ancillary
_______________                       equipment
Pump station     Nanhubei Road       Reinforced concrete      43,200 mj/d      To lift wastewater towards
structure with 3 no                      Longwangzui treatment
pump sets each 110                       plant
kW*21 mhead
capacity, ancillary
I ______________  I ___________ I____  equipm ent                              _      _I_I
Pump station     Guanshanyi Road    Reinforced concrete       17,280 m'/d      To lift wastewater towards
structure with 2 no                      Longwangzui treatmnent
pump sets each 55                        plant
kW*21 m head
capacity, ancillary
I ______________  I ______________ _  I equipm ent



- 76 -                               ANNEX2
Component          Location            Description        Capacity/Size           Function
Wastewater       Longwangzui        Wastewater treatment    150,000 m'/d    To treat domestic and
treatment plant                     plant comprising                       industrial wastewater prior
pumps, screens, grit                   to discharge to South Lake
removal, primary
clarification, sludge
thickening, sludge
dewatering, sludge
stabilization/removal
Hankou-West
Interceptor     Luojiaqu system     Brick and concrete box   0.9 km        To convey domestic and
sewer                               culverts and railway                   industrial wastewater to
crossing culvert, of                   Hankou West treatment
about 0.9 km total                     plant
length in sizes between
2.0 m wide* 1.7 m high
and 3.8 m wide*3.0 m
high
Open channel    Luojiaqu system     Open channels, part    2.2 km          To convey wastewater to
new,part dredging                      interceptor sewer
existing
Interceptor      Xindun system      Brick and concrete box   2.1 km        To convey domestic and
sewer                               culverts and railway                   industrial wastewater to
crossing culvert, of                   Hankou West treatment
about 2.1 km total                     plant
length in sizes between
2.8 m wide*2.0 m high
and 3.8 m wide*2.2 m
high
Open charnel    Xindun system       Dredging of existing   1.7 km          To convey wastewater to
open channels                          interceptor sewer
Xindun gate      Xindun system      3-4.1 x 4.2            95 m
Interceptor      Jinkou system      Brick and concrete box   2.2 km        To convey domestic and
sewer                               culverts, of about 2.2                 industrial wastewater to
km total length in sizes               Hankou West treatment
between 2.2 m                          plant
wide* 1.8 m high and
4.2 m wide*2.2 m high
Open channel    Jinkou-             Open channel            1.15 km        To convey wastewater to
Huaniiadawan                                              interCeDtOr_sewer
Open channel    Jinkou system       Open channel            1.15 km        To convey wastewater to
interceptor scwer
Connecting       Hankou             reinforced concrete     10.0 km.       To convey wastewater to
sewers                              pipe or other pipe                     main collector systems.
materials of sizes
between 300 and 1000
mm dia of about 10 km
total length.
Wastewater       Hankou West        Wastewater treatment    400,000 m'/d    To provide preliminary
treatment plant                     plant comprising                       wastewater treatment prior
_creens, grit removal                   to discharge to Fu River
Eftluent         Jinkou system                             34,560 m'       To convey wastewater
channel                                                                    effluent to Fu River
Moshui
Interceptor      Moshui             Reinforced concrete    6.0 km          To convey domestic and
sewer                               pipe or other pipe                     industrial wastewater to
materials of sizes                     Nantaizihu treatment plant
between 300 and 1,800
mm dia, and brick and
concrete box culverts,
of about 6.0 km total
length in sizes between
2.0 m wide' 1.7 m high
and 3.8 m wide*2.5 m
l___ ____ ____   i_______   high          l                 _
Outfall                             Outfall and gate, 1,200
mm, and 0.6 km 450
I______ ______  I_______  mm   dia  cast iron  pipe  I    l



- 77 -                               ANNEX2
Component          Location            Dcscription        Capacity/Size           Function
Wastewater      Nantaizihu          Wastewater treatment    I 00,000 m'/d    To provide preliminary
treatment plant                     plant comprising                        wastewater treatment prior
screens, grit removal                  to discharge to Yangtze
Effluent pipe   Nantaizihu          Reinforced concrete    1.56 km 1,200   To convey effluent to
pipe or other pipe     mm dia           Yangtze
materials of 1,200 mmn
dia, of about 1.56 kmn
total length
Pump station    Nantaizihu/         Reinforced concrete    1 0)0,224 m Id    1 o lilt effluent to Yangtze
Yangtze            structure with 4 no
pump sets each 110
kW*21 m head
capacity, ancillary
. uiment
Outfall         Nantaizihu/         Overflow gate (1-4 m x
Yangtze            3 m) of 10 m, outfall
dispel channel, gate (I -
4 4mx4m oflOm
East Lake Water Replacement
Gates No. 1-6    Luojiagana Canal   Water control gates in                 To control water replace-
sizes between 4.0 m *                  ment operations to East
3.0 m and 4.0 m * 4.0                  Lake
m
Pump boat        Yangtze, at        Floating pump station                  To lift water to Luojiagang
Luojiagang         with pump sets and                     for water replacement to
._____________  _________________ ancillary  equipment          East Lake
SuppIV pipe      Yangtze bank, at    Pressure pipe of 1,500                To convey water to
Luojiagang         mm dia, with flexible                   Luojiagang for water
joints open channel,                   replacement to East Lake
masonry lined
Sedimentation    Luojiagang         Masonrv line channel    135.000 ml     To reduce suspended solids
tank                                                                        in water replacement to East
Lake
Channel          Shahu Channel                              152,000 m'
dredging
XIANGFAN
Xiangfan Solid Waste
Sanitarv        Northwest of        Construction of first                  The landfill will mainly
landfill         Fangcheng          phase of new landfill                  serve Fangcheng with a
and provision of                       daily waste generation of
leachate and gas treat-                about 630 tons, with im-
ment, vehicles and                     proved collection and waste
waste transfer stations.               transfer efficiency.
Xiangfan Wastewater
Fancheng        Fancheng            Reinforced concrete    0-27 km         To convey combined waste-
collector                           rubber ring jointed or    DN600        water from Fancheng city to
se"cr,                             other pipe materials   2.60 km         the Qilihe interceptor.
gravity pipeline sys-  DN800
tems. Reinforced       1.29 km
concrete single barrel    DNI000
gravity box culverts.  0.43 km
DN 1100
0.60 km
DN1200
0.60 km
1400x1200
1.67 km
1600x1400
0.71 km
1800x 16C6,
0.20 km
1800x 1800
0.90 km
1600*1600



- 78 -                              ANNEX 2
Component         Location            Description       Capacity/Size          Function
Qilihe          Fancheng           Reinforced concrete   0.81 km        To convey wastewater from
interceptor     Qilihe            rubber ring jointed or    DN 1500     new separate and existing
other pipe materials  2.74 km        combined sewerage systems
gravity pipeline. Rein-  DNI800      to the Qinghekou pump
forced concrete single   1.70 km      station.
barrel gravity culverts.   2000x2000
1.60 km
2400x2000
0.51 km
2800x2000
South           Fancheng          Reinforced concrete    2.20 km        To intercept wastewater
interceptor     (adjacent to and  rubber ring jointed or    DN1350      from existing combined
parallel to the Han   other pipe materials  1.02 km     sewerage systems and con-
levee bank)       gravity pipeline.     DNI800          vey it to the Qinghekou
0.60 km        pump station.
DN2000
Qinghekou       Fancheng          Reinforced concrete    Station        To pump wastewater into
pump station    (confluence of    wet well/dry well      capacity:      the delivery main leading to
Xiaoqinghe and    station. 4 no. pump    525,000 m3/d   the Yuliangzhou treatment
Han Rivers)       units (3 duty,l stand-                works.
by) of 8900 m3/h
capacity*25.4 m head,
800 KW motors; 2 no.
pumps (I duty, I
standby) of 4675 m31h
capacity * 22.2 m
head, 400 KW motors;
mechanically raked
inlet screens, ancilliary
equipment .
Delivery sewer   From Qinghekou    Welded steel or other    3.10 km     To convey all wastewater
main            pump station to   pipe materials pressure   DN2200      from Fancheng to the inlet
Yuliangzhou       main.                                 of Yuliangzhou treatment
treatment works                                         works.
via submerged
crossing of the
north branch of
the Han River
Han River       From Fancheng to   Prestressed concrete  7 spans @ 60    To provide a secure crossing
Road Bridge     Yuliangzhou       box girder or other    m.             of the Han River for access
Island across     constructions road    Max. deck       to the proposed treatment
North Branch of    bridge.              elev. 80.90 m.   works on Yuliangzhou.
Han River                               Length 438 m
Yuliangzhou     Yuliangzhou       Preliminary treatment    Works        To remove gross solids and
preliminary     Island            comprising screening    capacity      grit from wastewater.
treatment                         and grit removal. Pilot  525,000 m /d
works                             plant of 250 m /d
capacity.
Outfall pipeline   Yuliangzhou     Reinforced concrete   0.60 km        To convey effluent from
and discharge    Island           rubber ring jointed or    DN 1800     Yuliangzhou treatment
to Han River                      other pipe material                   works to the Han River for
gravity pipeline.                    disposal.
Reinforced concrete
headwal I.
VICIIANG
Vichang Wastes Mansgement
Collection      throughout city   2 ton and 10 ton       2 ton 10 no.    To improve solid waste
vehicles                          compression vehicles.   10 ton 7 no.  collection and transfer
and 5 - 8 ton tipper  5 ton 9 no.    operational efficiency.
trucks                8 ton 4 no.



- 79-                                         ANNEX2
Component               Location                Description             Capacity/Size                 Function
lluangjiawan        North of the city       Construction of first        20 hq and 2.8       To serve the center of the
landfill                                    phase of new landfill        M m                 city, including the districts
and provision of leach-                         of Tieluba, Dongshan
ate and gas treatment.                          Gezhou dam district and
Xiakou, with about 400,000
inhabitants and a daily waste
I ______________     _________________       _____________________       ______________        collection   of  about  500   tons.
Vacuum trucks    throughout the             Provide trucks for           5-ton: 2            To provide additional trans-
city                   nightsoil sludge             2 ton: 3            port facility for removal of
removal                                         approximately 80-90 V/d
including 35 t/d from public
I__________________ .._____________________ ....___________.             latrines.



- 80 -                                      ANNEX2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
Person-nonths
TA Ref                               Title                                   Intemational                  Local
A.1           PACKAGE A: FINANCIAL.                                               15                         150
Executing Agency: HFB
WW, SW & NS Mgmt Accounting Systems & MIS
Implementation & Training
A.2           WW, SWM & NSM Utility Pricing                                        3                          10
A.3           Provincial Financial Management                                     12                         120
Subtotal PackageA A                                       2Q
B I           PACKAGE B: TECHNICAL
Executing Agency: HUEPO
Construction Management Services
B.2           Quality Assurance Training for Materials Production
B.3           WW Treatment Plant Operations Training                              12                          36
B.4          Infrastructure Sector Training, including computer skills and
project management
B.5           Hubei Project Management Training                                   I8                          42
B.6           Provincial WW Investment Planning and Training                      15                          55
Subtotal Package B (excluding B. I)          54                         1
C.1           PKGE C ENVIRONMENAL STREN GI                                        15                          15
Executing Agency: HEPB.
Environmental Quality Management, Monitoring and
Control
Subtotal Package C
D.I          OTHER
Executing Agency: HiUEPO:
Future Project Preparation
Subtotal D
IOTAL All PackaUa (Excluding B. I                                    I24



- 81-                                      ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3: DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
CH1NA
Hubei Urban Environmental Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
%      % Total
(RMB Million)             (USS Million)      Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total   Local Foreign  Total Exchange  Costs
1. Investment Costs
Civil Works                1334.01  174.64  1508.65  158.81   20.79  179.60        12       54
Equipment&Materials        311.78  515.64   827.42   37.12   61.39   98.50        62        29
ConstructionMgmtSvcs          5.89   21.19    27.07    0.70    2.52    3.22       78         1
TechAsstStudiesrTmg          15.19   54.93    70.13    1.81    6.54    8.35       78         2
Land Acquisition & Resettle   167.50    0.00   167.50   19.94    0.00   19.94      0         6
Engineering & Mgmt          174.86    0.00   174.86   20.82    0.00   20.82        0         6
Industrial Pollution Control  17.40   26.10    43.50    2.07    3.11    5.18      60         2
Total BASELINE COSTS          2026.62  792.50  2819.12  241.26   94.35  335.61        28       100
Physical Contingencies      143.89   59.07   202.95   17.13    7.03   24.16       29         7
Price Contingencies        221.88  100.71   322.59    7.18    3.29   10.47        31         3
Total PROJECT COSTS           2392.39  952.27  3344.67  265.58  104.66  370.24        28       110



CIONA
Hubce Urban Environnma,al Project
Tabie 100. Huaphi Wastewater Mmumt
DetadW Coda
(RMB Million)
Bs  Cost                                              Taabl lndm mg C ontagecies
1995   1996   1997   199   1999  200   2101   2112   Total  1995  1996   1997   1998  1999  2010   2061   2102   Total
1. I "tmy m  coda
A Ci'S Works
ChenjiawanCollectors& PSs          -   2.23   3.94   6.70   2.23   1.12   1.12          22.34      -  2.71  11.85   9.57   3.41   1.81   1.92           31.27
Preliminary Treatment              -          4.39   4.39   2.93   1.46   1.46          14.64      -      -   5.82   6.27   4.46   2.37   2.52      -   21.45
Miscellancous Works             1.94   7.78      -      -      -             -           9.72   2.24   9.42      -      -      -      -             -   11.65
SubtoalCivi Wodi                   1.94  10.01  13.33  11.09   5.16   2.58   2.53     -   46.70   2.24  12.12  17.67  15.85   7.87   4.13   4.44      -   64.37
B. Eqjput & MNatenab
Pwmp Eq.. Screen, Grit Eq                     2.74   4.57   0.91   0.91      -           9.14      -          3.63   6.52   1.39   1.48      -      -   13.03
Power Suply                                      .      -  4.41   0.49       -      -    4.90             -      -      -  6.73   0.79       -      -    7.52
MiscelaneeousEqupment              -      -0.18   0.71   0.54   0.13   0.09   0.09    1.79         -      -   0.24   1.02   0.32   0.29   0.15   0.16    2.68
Subtotal Equipmet & Matenals                    2.92   5.28   5.36   1.53   0.09   0.09   15.82      -      -   3.87   7.54   3.94   2.57   0.15   0.16   23.23
C. Land Acrqujsition & Resettlenent    5.53   5.53  -      -                   -      -   11.06   5.53   5.32             -      -      -             -   11.35
D. Enginering & Management
Civil Works                     0.24   1.23   1.63   1.36   0.63   0.32   0.32           5.72   0.27   1.4S   2.16   1.94   0.96   0.51   0.54           7.88
Equipmcnt& Maternals               -          0.38   0.69   0.72   0.20   0.01   0.01    2.01      -      -   0.50   0.98   1.09   0.33   0.02   0.02    2.95
Land Acquisition & Resettlcmcnt    0.66   0.66   -                    -      -      -    1.33   0.66   0.70      -      -      -      -      -      -    1.36
SubotalEngimeerng & Manageen   0.90   1389   2.01   2.05   1.35   0.52   0.33   0.01    9.06   0.94   2.18   2.67   2.92   2.06   0.84   0.56   0.02   12.19
E Costnaction Mgmt Svcs
Civil Works                     0.05   0.23   0.31   0.26   0.12   0.06   0.06      -    1.10   0.05   0.23   0.41   0.37   0.18   0.10   0.10      -    1.51
Equspment & Matcrials              -      -   0.07   0.13   0.14   0.04    -      -      0.39      -      -   0.10   0.19   0.21   0.06    -     -       0.57
SubtotalConstrunionMgmtSvcs       0.05   0.23   0.39   0.39   0.26   0.10   0.06            1.48   0.05   0.28   0.51   0.56   0.39   0.16   0.11    -     2.08
Toal                                 8.42  17.66  18.65  18.81  12.63   4.78   3.06   0.10   84.12   8.75  20.41  24.72  26.87  19.26   7.75   5.27   0.19  113.22
Xi



CHINA
Hubei Urban Environmental 1roject
Table 110. Huangshi \Wastcs Management
Detaild Costs
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                                          Totals Including Contingencies
199   1996  197   1998  1999  2000  2001 2002  Total  1995  1996   1997  1998  1999  2000  2001 2002  Total
1. Investment Costa
A. Civil Works
Xisai Landfill              -    0.46   1.37   1 83   0.46   0 46   -           4 58    -     0.55   1.82   2.62   0 70   0 74   -    -       6.43
TransferStations            -    0.34   1.01   1.34   0.34   0.34   -    -      3.35          0.41   1.33   1.91   0.51   0.54      -         4.71
SubtotalCivU Works              -    0.79   2.38   3.17   0.79   0.79   -    -      7.93    -     0.96   3.16   4.53   1.21   1.29   -    -    11.14
B. Equipnent & Materials
SolidWasteMgmt              -    1.25   5.01   5.01   0.63   063   -    -    12.51    -        1.45   635   6.84   091   0.97   -    -    16.52
Nightsoil Mgmt              -    0.70   1.09   1.37   0.59   0.16   -           3.91    -     0.82   1.39   1.87   0.86   0.24   -    -       5.17
SubtotalEquipment&Materiab   -    1.96   6.10   6.37   1.21   0.78   -             16.42    -     2.26   7.74   8.71   1.77   1.21   -    -    21.69
C. Land Acquisitain & R.resttlene    -    4.79    -                                 4.79          5.04    -             -      -                 5.04
D. Engineeiing & Mnmge.ent
Civil Works                 -    0.10   0.29   0.39   0.10   0.10   -    -      0.97    -     0.12   0.39   0.55   0.15   0.16   -    -       1.36
Equipment& Materials        -    0.24   0.75   0.78   0.15   0.10      -        201    -      0.28   0.95   1.07   0.22   0.15   -            2.66
Land Acquisition & Resettlem    -    0.57              -      -                 0.57    -     0.61    -      _      -      -     -    -       0.61
Subtotal Engineenng& Managte   -    0.91   1.04   1.17   0.25   0.19                3.56          1.00   1.33   1.62   0.36   0.31               4.63
E. Conrtnction Mgnt Svca
Civil Works                 -    0.01   0.03   0 04   0.01   0.01   -    -       0.09    -    0.01   0.04   0.05   0.01   0.02   -    -       0.13
Fquipment&Material          -    0.02   0.07   0.07   0.01   0.01   _    _      0.19          0.03   0.09   0.10   0.02   0.01         -      0.25
Total                              -    8.48   9.62  10.83   2.27   1.79   -    -    32.99    -      9.30  12.35  15.02   3.38   2.83   -          42.89



CHINA
Hubet Urban Fnv irumncnital Project
Table 200. Wuhan Wastewater Management
Detailed Costs
(RM33 Million)
Bae Coat                                                      Totals Including Contingencies
1995    199t    1997    1991    1999   2000  2001  2002   Total   1995    1996            17    1S    1999   2000  2001  2002   Total
1. Invesatnent Coma
K Civil Works
East Lake Water Balancc                               2 58     7 74    12.90    1.29    1 29     -     -   25.81               3.13    10.27    18 43    1.97    2.09     -     -     35.88
Hankou/Nantazi Collectors                       -    1343    40.30    67.17    672    672       -      -  13433          -    1627    5344    9593   1024   1089          -     -    18677
Erlangmiao/Shahu/Longwangzui Collectors         -    548    1645    2742    2.74    2.74         -     -   5484          -    664    21.82    3917    4.18    4.45        -     -     7625
Erlangmiao/Shahu/Longwangzui W'TI-Ps
andEffluentlDischarge Pipes                    -   3045    60.89    4567    761    761         -      -  152.23         -   3527    77.23    6239   1110   11.80         -     -    197.79
Hankou/Naniainz Prc-Trcatment                   -    092       461      277    046    046        -     -    923          -     112     612      395    0.70    075        -     -     12 64
Misc Adv Works, Filling Roads, ELtc          559    1117    1117           -      -       -     -      -   2793       6.42    1353    1481         -       -       -            -     3477
Mlsc. Secondary Sewers. Connections          3 35     3 35     6 70     1 68    1.68      -     -      -    16 76     3 85    4 06      8.89    2 39    255                           21.75
Rail Crossings                                        2 85     2 85               -                          5 70              3 45     3 78        -      -                           7 23
Subtotal Civil Work                            894    7024   15073   157 60   20 50    882         -     -  426 83    10 28    83 46   196 35   222 27   30 75   29 98      -      -    573 08
00
B. Equipment & Materials
Water Balance Pumps                             -        -    3 02      3 02    0.75    0.75     -     -    7 54         -        -    4.00     4 31    1 IS    1.22                   10.68
Shahu/ErIangmiao/Longwangzui WWIP l.q           -   1696    3391   101 74    848    848          -     -  16956          -    19.4    4301   13900   12.36   13.15        -     -    227.16
HankoulNantaizi Pre-Treatment. Pu-rps           -    3 78      7 56    22 68    1 89    1 89        -       37.80        -    458    10 02    32.39    2.88   3.06        -     -     52 94
Mlsc Vehicles,Equipment, Pumps etc              -    435    1741    1741    218    218          -     -   4353          -    527    23.09    2487    3.32    3.53        -     -     60.08
Power Supplics                                           -        -    5 13   0 57        -            -    5 70         -        -        -    7.33    0.87       -                   8.20
Subtotal Equipment & Materials                    -   25.09    6190   14998   1387   1330          -         264.14        -   2949    80.12   20790   2058   20.96         -      -    359.06
C Land Acquisition & Rcsettlement             89.22        -        -        -       -       -     -          89 22    89 22        -        -        -       -       -     -      -     89.22
D. Engineering & Mgmt
Civil Works                                  1.09     8.67    IS60    1942    253    232         -     -   52.64      1.26    10.50    24.67    2773    3.86    3.77      -     -      71.78
Equipment & Materials                           -     327      8.06    19.49    180    1 73      -     -   3435          -    3.96    1069    27.83    2.75    2.81       -     -     48.04
Land Acquisition & Resettlcment             10 71        -        -        -      -       -     -      -    10.71    10.71        -        -        -      -       -      -     -      10.71
Subtotal Engineering&  Mgmt                   11 80    11.94    2667    38.90    4 33    406       -          97.70    11.96    14.46    35.36    55.56    6.60    6.58     -      -    130 53
E. Construction Mgmt Svcs
Civil Works                                  021      1 66     3.57     372    048    0.45       -     -    10.09     0.24     201      473      5.32    0.74    072      -     -      13.76
Equipment& Materials                            -    063       1.55     374    035    033       -      -    658          -    076      205       533    053    054        -            9.21
Subtotal Construction Mgmt Sves                0 21     2 29     5 11     746    0.83    078       -     -    16 67     0 24     2.77     6 78    10.65    1.27    1.26     -      -     22.97
Total                                           110.16   10956   24441   353.94   3953   3696         -     -  89456   111.70   13018   31861   49638   59.20   5878           -      -  1,17485
X



C(HINA
Hubei Urban Environmcntal Projct
Table 2 10. Wuhan Wastes Management
Ddtaild Costs
(RMB IMillion)
Base ( *,st                                        I otais Including Contingencies
1995  19%   1997  199f  1999  2000  2001 2002  Total  1"5   199f  1997  199f   1999  2000  2001   2002   Total
1. Inv'estent Coats
A Civil Works                      -  4.01  12.03  20.05   2.01   2.01     -    -   40.21       -  4.86  15.95  28.64   3.06   3.25      -       -   55.76
B. Equipment& Materials            -          4.86  19.44  19.44   4.86              48.60             -  6.16  26.56  28.35   7.54       -      -   68.61
C. Land Acquisition & Resettlenent  13.68  13.68  -     -      -     -    -          27.36  13.68  14.41                -          -      -      -   28.09
00
D. Engineering & Mgnt
Civil Works                          0.49   1.47   2.46   0.25   0.25    -          4.91         0.59   1.95   3.51   0.37   0.40      -      -    6.83
Equipment & Materials            -      -  0.60   2.38   2.38   0.60     -    -    5.95       -     -  0.75   3.25   3.47   0.92       -      -    8.40
Land Acquisition & Rcscttknicn,t   1.64   1.64  -     -     -      -    -    -    3.28   1.64   1.73       -      -      -      -      -      -    3.37
Subtotal Engiseeming & MNgt     1.64   2.13   2.07   4.84   2.63   0.84    -    -   14.15   1.64   2.32   2.71   6.76   3.85   1.32      -      -   18.60
E. Construction Mgnt Svcs
Civil Workas                     -  0.05   0.14   0.24   0.02   0.02     -    -   0.47        -  0.06   0.19   0.34   0.04   0.04      -      -    0.65
Equipment & Materials            -          0.06   0.23   0.23   0.06          -    0.57     -      -   0.07   0.31   0.33   0.09      -      -    0.81
SubtotalConstruetloiMguntSvcs      -  0.05   0.20   0.46   0.25   0.08     -    -    1.04       -  0.06   0.26   0.65   0.37   0.13      -            1.46
Total                             15.32  19.87  19.16  44.79  24.32   7.79    -    -  131.26  15.32  21.64  25.09  62.61  35.62  12.24      -      -  172.52



CHINA
Hubei Urbin EnvirwumnnLal Project
Tabk 300 Xzmtuan W=Lcwar Mmiapmat
DdaSd Cm
(RUB Million)
l_ C_                                                         To" Isdu*i  CIUIh.Wcis
19f    I96    1"7    19           19      29M    291   2062   Tel        1996    1996    1"7    1 99    199         2"9    2061   2U12   TII
L bwaluwAin Coda
A. Cil Work
Falrptonkucpuora PmpSt               -   42.03    32.73    9.35    9.35                       -   93.51        -   50.96   43.40    3.36    14.26        -      -       .  121.96
BndgckRoad                           -   19.10    14.U6    425      4.25       -       -      -   42.45            23.13    19.70    6.06    6.47            -          -   55.37
Pteminu,Trezmnm       caim           -   24.91    4270     3.56       -            -          -   71.17            30.16   56.62    5.01        -                           91.16
Misc. Advance WU'                 3.18    2.40        -       -        -           -          .    5.59    3.66    2.91                 -                -      -            6.57
Scoondry Sesen                       -    9.70     7.55    2.16    2.16        -      -           21.56       .   11.75   10.01    3.0       3.29        -      -       -   2S.12
SMSaICh.IIWor6a                     313    9320    97.33    19.31    15.75                      -  23423      3.66   113.91   129.72    27.53    '402      -     -        .  303.39
IL Eq pmeu  Ma3mhh
P    wansugEqpmrnnt                  -    977    1623      3.26     3.26       -          -       32.55        -   11.82   21.58    4.65    496          -      -       -   43.02
Power Supply                         -            12.83     143        -                      -   14.25       -        -   17.01    2.04        -                           1 -  39.04
Msc.Equip. &Mieials                  -    053      2.10    2.10    0.26     0.26              -    5.25             064      2.78    3.00    0.40     043               -    7.25
SuMboitlElA timA &MAm                  -   1029    31.20    6.78      3.52    026                    5205        -   12.46   41.37     963      536     0.43       -          6930
00
C. Land Acquisuon & Rcscttlemenl    553      5 53       -        -       -                      -   1106      553    5.32         -       -        -                           1- 1.35
D. Iapae  i s     Mg.t
Civil Works                       0.39    12.02    11 98   236      1 93       -              -   28.69    0.45    14.56    15.88    3.38     2.94       -              -   37.21
Eqwprncnt& Maittials                 -    1.34     393     087      0.46    0.03       -      -    663              L.62    5.21     1.24    0.70     0.06          -        8.83
Land Acquisiton & Rcsculernent    0 66    0 66        -               -        -      -            1 33    0.76    080                  -       -        -      -            1.57
Sub    IEzgi Mring & M g.M          105    1403    15.91      3.23    2.39     0.03             -   36.65     121    16.99   21.10    4.62      364     006               -   47.61
L CeUat-c_. Mgi,t Svcs
Ciail Works                       0.07    2.30     230     045      0.37               -           5.50    0.09     2.79    3.04     0.65    0.56        -      -       -    7.13
Eqwiptnen&Matmnals                   -    026      075     0.17    009      0.01          -        1.27        -    0.31     1.00    024     0.13     0.01      -             .69
Sub4ataIConstructbM gMt -Svcs       007      256     3.05     062     046      003              -    677      0.09    3.10    4.04    0.39    070       0.01       -      -    8.83
Tla                                    9.S4   130.61   14300    2994    22.11    0.30       -      .  34010    10.49   157.28   19624   4277    33.72      0.49       -      .  440.98



CIIINA
Hubei Urban Environmcntal Project
Table 310. Xiangfan Wastes Managenxnt
Detailed Costs
(RMB Million)
Base C(ost                                              Totals Including Contingencies
1995   1996   1997   199    199   2000   2001   2002   Total   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   Tota
1. Investmnent Cotts
A Civil Works                      -   1.12   3.35   5.59   0.56   0.56       -      -   11.17       -   1.35   4.44   7.98   0.85   0.91       -       -   15.53
B. Equipment& Materials           -   1.03   3.10   5.17   0.52   0.52        -      -   10.34       -   1.25   4.11   7.38   0.79   0.84       -       -   14.37
C. Land Acquisition& Resettlern    -  14.25      -      -      -       -      -      -   14.25          15.01      -      -       -      -      -       -   15.01
00
D. Engineering & Mgmt
Civil Works                     -   0.14   0.41   0.68   0.07   0.07        -      -    1.37      -   0.17   0.54   0.98   0.10   0 11        -      -    1.90
Equipment& Mat-rials            -   0.13   0.38   0.63   0.06   006        -       -    127       -   0.15   0.50   0.90   0.10   0.10        -      -    1.76
Land Acquisition & Resetilem    -   1.71       -      -      -      -      -       -    1.71      -   1.80       -      -      -       -      -      .    1.80
Subtotal Engineering & Nigmt       -   1.97   0.79   1.32   0.13   0.13       -      -    4.34       -   2.12    1.05   1.88   0.20   0.21      -       -    5.46
E. Construction Mgmt Svcs
Civil Works                     -   0.01   0.04   0.07   0.01   0.01        -      -    0.13      -   0.02   0.05   0.09   0.01   0.01        -      -    0.18
Equipment t&Materials               0.01   0.04   0.06   0.01   0.01       -       -    0.12      -   0.01   0.05   0.09   0.01   0.01    _                0.17
Total                                 -  18.40   7.32  12.20   1.22   1.22       -          40.35          19.76   9.70  17.42   1.86   1.98       -           50.72



CHIN A
ilubei Urban E~nwotromenal Projcct
Tabc 410. Y ichang Wastes Management
Deiled Cosb
(RMB Millon)
Bas cost                                                    Totab Including Contingencies
1995   1996    1997    1991    1999    2000   2001   2002   Total   1995   1996    1997    199        1999    2000   2001   2002   Total
1. lnvestmnwt Costs
A CivI Works                          -       3.09    9.27   15.45    1.55    1.55    -      -      30.90    -      3.74   12.29   22.07    2.36    2.51    -       -     42.96
B. Equipoatt * Material
Sobd Wast NIgmt                     -       1.61    4.34    S.07    0.31    0.31    -      -      16.15    -      1.37    6.14   11.03    1.18    1.25    -      -      21.47
NighJtoil Mgmt                      -       0.19    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25   0.06    -       1.26   _       0.22    0.32    0.34    0.37    0.39   0.10    -       1.75
Subtotal Equipment h MUatials          -      I.S0    S.10    S.33    1.06    1.06   0.06    -      17.41    -      2.09    6.46   11.37    1.55    1.64   0.10           23.22
00
00
C. Land AcqLsinen & Rcscttlement       -      9.77    -        -                                     9.77    -      10.29    -               - -     -       -      -      10.29
D. Engineering & Mgmt
Civil Works                         -       0.38    1.14    1.89    0.19    0.19    -              3.78    -      0.46    1.51    2.70    0.29    0.31    -      -       5.26
Equipmcnt &  taicnals               -       0.22    0.62    1.02    0.13    0.13   001    -        2.13    -      0.26    0.79    1.39    0.19    0.20   0.01    -       2.84
Land Acqustiuon & Rcsctticment      -       1.17    -       -       -        -                     1.17           1.23                    -        -      -              1.23
Subtotal Enginecring & Mgmt            -      1.77    1.76    2.91    0.32    0.32   0.01    -       7.09    -       1.95    2.30    4.09    0.43    0.51   0.01    -       9.34
E Constriusthon Mgmt Svcs
Civil Works                         -       0.04    0.11    0.13    0.02    0.02    -      -       0.36    -      0.04    0.14    0.26    0.03    0.03    -      -       0.50
Equpment&Materials                  -       0.02    006    0.10    001       0.01    -     -       0.20    -      0.02    0.03    0.13    0.02    0.02    -      -       0.27
Total                                    -      16.49   16.29   26.97    2.95    2.95   0.07    -      6573    -      18.14   21.27   37.93    4.42    4.71   0.12    -      86.59



Hube; U;rban Lnvironrental P'roject
Tabic 500. Industrial and Enironmental l'ollution Control
Detailed Costs
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                                                 Totals Including (ontingencles
1995   1996    1997    1998    1999    2000  2001  2002   Total  1995  1996    1997    1998    1999    2000  2001  2002   Total
1. Investment (osts
Line of Credit                 -  140.70  140.70  140.70  14070  140.70       -    .   703.50      -  140.70  140.70  140.70  140.70  140.70      -     -   703.50
Equipment and Matenals         -   78.30   78.30   78.30   78.30   78.30      -    -   391.50      -   78.30   78.30   78.30   78.30   78.30      -    -   391.50
Pollution Control Fund         -    8.70    8.70    8.70    8.70    8.70      -    -    43.50      -    8.70    8.70    8.70    8.70    8.70     -     -    43.50
Total                             -  227.70  227.70  22770  22770  22770         -    - 1,138.50      -  227.70  227.70  227.70  227.70  227.70     -    - 1,138.50
00
Tabic 600. Hubei Environmental Monitoring Center
Detailed Costs
(RkM Million)
Base Cost                                                 l'otals Including ( ontingencies
1995   1996    1997    1998    1999   2000  2001 2002   Total   1995  1996    1997    1998    1999    2000   2001 2002   Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                    -    3.69               -       -       -    -    -       3.69     -    4.47       -        -       -       -     -     -     4.47
B. Equipment & Materials
Lab & Field                    -    4.57    2.00    1.44        -       -    -    -       8.01     -    5.53    2.66    2.06       -        -     -    -    10.25
Computes                        -    0.40    0.10    0.19       -       -    -    -       0.69     -    0.48    0.14    0.28       -        -     -    -      0.89
Subtotal Equipment & Nlaterial    -    4.96    2.11    1.64       -       -    -    -       8.70     -    6.01    2.79    2.34        -       -     -     -    11.14
C. Engineering & Mgmt
Civil Works                    -    0.44                            -      -        -     0.44     -    0.54       -       -       -       -    -      -      0.54
Equipment & Materials           -    0.65    0.27    0.21               -    -    -       1.13     -   0.78    0.36    0.30        -        -     -    -      1.45
-    9.74    2.38    1.85       -       -    -           13.98         11.80    3.16    2.64       -       -    -      -    17.60
X



CIDNA
Huber Urban Envtronmnentl Project
Table 610. Wuhan Envirrwicntal Monitoring Centcr
Detailed Cas
(RMB Million)
BHe Coa                                                  Totab lIcluding (ontingenciea
1995   1996    1997    1998   1999  201t   2001  2002   Total  1995   1996    1997   199I   1999  2000  2001  2002   Total
1. Inveatment Coats
A Civil Worka                   -    3.53       -       -      -      -      -      -    3.53           4.2        -                                       4.28
B. Equiptmn & Matenian
LabA Field                    -    1.29    0.73    0.13      -                         2.15           1.56    0.97    0.18     -      -                  2.72
Computers                     -    0.14    0.07    0.07      -      -                  0.28     -   0.17    0.10    0.10           -      -         -    0.37
Subtotal Equipnwnt & Material   -    1.43    0.31    0.20      -      -      -      -   2.44       -    1.74    1.07    0.28      -      -     -      -    3.09
C. Engimenag & Mgmt
Civil Works                   -    0.42                      -                    -   0.42      -   0.51        -       -      -      -      -      -    0.51
Equipment & Material          -   0.19    0.10    0.03       -      -      -      -   0.32      -   0.23    0.14    0.04       -      -      -      -    0.40
Total                              -    5.58    0.91    0 22          -         -      -   6.71       -    6.75    1.21    0.32     -      -      -      -    8.28
0
Table 700. Technical Asistancc & Trainiing
Detailed Coas
(RMB Million)
Base Cost                                                Total Including Contingencies
1995   1996    1997    199I   1999  2000  2001   2002   Total  1995   1996    1997   1998   1999  2000  2001  2002   Toal
1. Investment Costs
A Technical Assistance & Trng
Inst Dcv. & Studies           -   13.45   13.45   13.45  13.45  13.45      -      -  67.23           16.28   17.83   19.20  20.50  21.80     -      -   95.61
Water Quality Training        -    1.31    1.60       -      -      -      -      -    2.90           1.31    1.60      -      -      -      -      -    2.90
Total                              -   14.75   15.04   13.45  13.45  13.45      -      -   70.13          17.59   19.42   19.20  20.50  21.80     -      -   98.51
Xa



- 91-                                  ANNEX4
ANNEX 4: SCHEDULE OF CONTRACT PACKAGES
Procurement
Contract no.                Description                 type                              Remarks
HUANGSHI
Wastes Management
Civil Works
HSW/I.0         Xisai Landfill                        NCB
HSW/2.0         Transfer Stations                     NCB
Equipment & Materials
HSW/21.0        Vehicles and Landfill Plant, equip.,   ICB                     various schedules
Huangshi, Wuhan, Yichang
Wastewater Management
Civil Works
HWW/1.0         Changjiawan Collectors & PSs          NCB
HWW/2.0         Preliminary Treatment                 NCB
HWW/3.0         Miscellaneous Works                   NCB
Equipment & Materials
HWW/21.0        Pump Eq., Screen, Grit Eq.             ICB
HWW/22.0        Power Supplies                          --                     included in WWW/25.0
HWW/23.0        Miscellaneous Equip.                    --                     included in XWW/23.0
WUIIAN
Wastes Management
Civil Works
WSW/I.0         Jinkou Landfill                       NCB
Equipment & Materials
WSW/21.0        Vehicles, Landfill Plant and misc.      --                     included in HSW/2 1.0
equipment



- 92 -                                 ANNEX4
Procurement
Contract no.                Description                 type                              Remarks
Wastewater Management
Civil Works
WWW/I.0         East Lake Water Balance                NCB
WWW/2.0         Hankou/Nantaizi Collectors             NCB                     3 contracts
WWW/3.0         Erlangmiao/Shahu/Longwangzui           NCB
Collectors
WWW/4.0         Erlangmiao/Shahu/Longwangzui           ICB                     PQ required
WWTPs and Effluent Discharge
Pipes
WWW/5.0         Hankou/Nantaizi Pretreatment           NCB
WWW/6.0         Misc. Advance Works, Filling,          NCB                     several contracts
Roads, etc.
WWW/7.0         Misc. Secondary Sewers,                NCB
Connections
WWW/8.0         Rail Crossings                      DC (NBF)                   Contract with Rail Co.
Equipment & Materials
WWW/21.0        Water Balance Pumps                    ICB
WWW/22.0        Shahu/Erlangmiao/Longwangzui           ICB
Treatment Equip. and Pumps
Supply, Installation
WWW/23.0        Hankou/Nantaizi Pretreatment and       ICB
Pumps
WWW/24.0        Misc. Vehicles, Equip., etc.            --                     included in XWW/23.0
WWW/25.0        Power Supplies for Huangshi,        DC (NBF)                   Contracts with Power Co.
Wuhan and Xiangfan
XIANGFAN
Wastes Management
Civil Works
XSW/I.0         Landfill Development                  NCB
XSW/2.0         Transfer Stations                      NCB
Equipment & Materials
XSW/21.0        Plant and Vehicles                     ICB
WHastcwater Maniagenent
Civil Works
XWW/I.0         Fancheng Interceptors & Pump           ICB                     PQ required
Statn
XWW/2.0         Bridge & Road                         NCB
XWW/3.0         Preliminary Treatment/Mains            ICB                     PQ required
XWW/4.0         Misc. Advance Works                    NCB                     several contracts
XWW/5.0         Secondary Sewers                       NCB
Equipment & Materials
XWW/21.0        Pumping/Pretreatment Equip.            ICB
XWW/22.0        Power Supplies                          --                     included in WWW/25.0
XWW/23.0        Misc. Equipment & Materials, all    ICB/NCB                    several contracts and
cities                                                         schedules



- 93 -                                ANNEX4
Procurement
Contract no.               Description                type                              Remarks
YICHANG
Wastes Management
Civil Works
YSW/1.0        Huangjiawan Landfill                  NCB
Equipment & Materials
YSW/21.0       Landfill Plant & Equip                 --                    included in HSW/21.0
YSW/22.0       Vehicles                              NCB
HUB  I ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING CENTER
Civil WVorks
HMC'/I.0       Refurbishment of Center               NCB
Equipment & Materials
HMC/21.0       Lab and Field Equipment             ICB/NCB                   various schedules
HMC/22.0       Computer Equipment                   NS/IS
WUHA%N ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING CENTER
Civil Works
WMCII.0        Refurbishment of Center               NCB
Equipment & Materials
WMC/21.0       Lab and Field Equipment             ICB/NCB                   various schedules
WMC/22.0       Computer Equipment                   NS/IS
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & TRAINING
Institutional Dev. & Studies
Water Quality Training
Other
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
ICB     =   International Competitive Bidding
NCB    =   National Competitive Bidding
DC      =   Direct Contracting
NBF    =   Non-Bank Financed
IS      =   International Shopping
NS      =   National Shopping



- 94 -                      ANNEX5
ANNEX 5: SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Bank/IDA              Semester                                       Bank
fiscal year       IDA      IBRD      Cumulative         Project    Profile la
and semester      -----------($ million)---------------  ---------------  -------------
1996
Second Lb          9.0     -            9.0              6.0        6.0
1992
First              7.5     -           16.5             11.0        9.0
Second             5.5    12.5        34.5              23.0       16.0
199ii
First              -      18.8        53.3              35.5       27.0
Second             -      22.1        75.4              50.3       57.0
First              -      17.0        92.4              61.6       60.0
Second             -      16.0       108.4              72.3       65.0
2QQQ
First              -      14.0       122.4              81.6       69.0
Second             -      11.5       133.9              89.3       70.0
2QQI
First              -       9.0       142.9              95.3       75.0
Second             -       4.0        146.9             97.9       79.0
2002
First              -       2.0        148.9             99.3       82.0
Second             -       1.1        150.0            100.0      100.0
Za    Disbursement profile for China (urban sector).
Lb    Includes initial Special Account disbursement of $5 million.
Zg    Includes $3 million balance of Special Account disbursement, for a total Special
Account allocation of $8 million.



- 95 -                      ANNEX6
ANNEX 6: LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
Overall Preparation of Resettlement Action Plans
1.    Prior to appraisal, all project cities presented the Bank with resettlement plans for
those project components requiring land acquisition. The appraisal mission requested
additional information on certain aspects of the plans and that information, together with the
original plans, provides the basis for appraisal of resettlement for the project components
requiring resettlement. All project cities-Wuhan, Xiangfan, Yichang, and Huangshi-
have such components, as do several of the enterprises proposed for support under the line
of credit.
2.    The resettlement plans for individual cities and enterprises share many features, due
to the fact that all were developed within the same regulatory framework (described in
Chapter 2 of China: Involuntary Resettlement, Report 11641-CHA). The Bank review of
Chinese resettlement policy showed that basing compensation on collective land ownership
(for rural communities) or enterprises (in urban areas) effectively protected the interests of
all groups but the unregistered population (migrants who have not been given the right of
permnanent abode). The preparation of resettlement plans in this project was done with
special attention to possible impacts on members of the unregistered population. Several
such people have been identified as affected by resettlement, and appropriate measures
taken to indemnify them, as explained in the text.
3.    In each city (including cities in which project-assisted enterprises are sited), the
resettlement efforts will be executed by the city land administration bureau, or another
government agency with special responsibility for resettlement. All project cities have large
ongoing investment programs that involve substantial resettlement and the assigned
agencies are therefore experienced in this work. The executing agencies are those typically
used in resettlement work and acknowledged in the Bank's resettlement review to be well
placed to execute the work. Each will be required to submit quarterly reports on their
efforts under the Bank project. The project offices in each city, together with the provincial
project office, shall be responsible for ongoing monitoring of the resettlement effort. In
addition, an independent agency will be retained to evaluate resettlement performance at
regular intervals during active resettlement and 12 months after the last resettlement occurs.
4.    Project components are expected to acquire over 140 hectares (ha) in some 25
discrete sites. This will lead to the permanent relocation of 39 families and temporary
relocation of 137 families. It will also cause some 996 people to be given new jobs on land
within their current company on village, given jobs with new companies, or switch to new
places of self-employment due to loss of cultivated land, fish ponds, or industrial or



- 96 -                           ANNEX6
commercial opportunities. Using the broad Chinese definition of affected people (which
factors in dependents of those losing income streams), a total of some 3,912 people will be
affected by project-induced resettlement. Tables 1, 2 and 3 show the distribution of
resettlement among the project components, resettlement timing and budgets.
Table 1: DISTRIBUTION OF RESETTLEMENT AMONG PROJECr COMPONENTS
Land        Households     Households
acquisition   permanently    temporarily        Labor
Project component                      (ha)         relocated      relocated       displaced
Urban Environmental Management
Wuhmn
Wastewater collection and treatment   44.6             0              0            430
Solid waste management                 17.7            0              0             176
Xbangfhn
Wastewater collection and treatment    10.3            5            137              0
Solid waste management              TBD             TBD            TBD            TBD
Huanphi
Wastewater collection and treatment    5.0             0              0              3
Solid waste management                 12.5            0              0             61
Yichang
Solid waste management                24.3            11              0             177
Total                               114.4           16            137             847
Industrial Pollution Control
JingmenGeneralCementPlant               11.5           16              0              0
YichangGeneralCementPlant               11.5            7              0            119
Xiangfan Chemical Factory               3.0             0              0             30
Total                                26.0           23              0             149



-97-                             ANNEX6
Table 2: RESETTLEMENT BUDGET SUMMARY AND TIMING
(Y million)
Project component                 Total budget    CY 1995       CY 1996         CY 1997
Urban Environmental Management
Wuhan
Wastewater collection and treatment    89.9        10.2           66.5           13.2
Solid waste management             24.0             2.4           19.0            2.6
Xiangran
Wastewater collection and treatment    13.3         2.6            9.6            1.1
Solid waste management           TBD            TBD             TBD            TBD
Huangshi
Wastewater collection and treatment  7.1            0.7            5.7            0.7
Solid waste management              4.3             0.4            3.1            0.8
Yichang
Solid waste management              10.4            1.0            8.3             1.0
Subtotal La                      149.0           17.3          112.2            19.4
Contingency                        14.9            1.7           11.2             1.9
Industrial Pollution Control
Jingmen General Cement Plant          1.8            0.5            1.2            0.1
Yichang General Cement Plant          5.4            1.0            3.4             1.0
Xiangfan Chemical Factory             1.8            0.2            1.4            0.2
Subtotal                           9.0            1.7            6.0             1.3
Contingency                        0.9            0.2            0.6             0.1
La     Totals may not match due to rounding error.



- 98 -                           ANNEX6
Table 3: ADJUSTED SCHEDULES FOR LAND ACQUISITION
AND RESETTLEMENT ACTIVITIES
Item                          Huangshi    Huangshi       Wuhan        Wuhan       Xiangfan
Solid Waste   Wastewater  Solid Waste   Wastewater   Wastewater
Land Acquisition
Sign land acquisition         12/95        12/95         12/95        12/95        12/95
agreement with village level
Pay compensation for land  01/96-06/96   01/96-03/96   01/96-07/96   01/96-07/96   01/96-06/96
acquisition
Land adjustment or to be    04/96-09/96   01/96-06/96   04/96-09/96   04/96-12/96   12/95-09/96
resettled
Hand over the right-of-way    06/98        12/98        06/98        12/98         12/98
House Relocation
Issue the notices of house      -            -            -          02/96        01/96
relocation
Sign the compensation           -            -            -          04/96        03/96
agreement for house
relocations
Pay compensation for house      -            -            -          06/96        04/96
relocations
House relocation                -            -            -          09/96     05/96-12/96
New house building              -            -            -            -        05/96-12/96
Commence construction        09/96-06/98   04/96-12/98   10/96-06/98   10/96-12/98   01/96-12/98
Table 3: (CONT'D)
Item                                Yichang Solid    Yichang       Jingmen     Xiangfan City
Waste        Cement        Cement        Chemical
Land Acquisition
Sign land acquisition agreement with  12/95          12/95        12/95          12/95
village level
Pay compensation for land acquisition   01/96-06/96    01/96-09/96   01/96-09/96    01/96-03/96
Land adjustment or to be resettled  04/96-09/96    04/96-12/96   04/96-12/96    01/96-06/96
Hand over the right-of-way            12/98         12/98         06/98          06/98
House Relocation
Issue the notices of house relocation  04/96        04/96         02/96
Sign the compensation agreement for   05/96         05/96         03/96
house relocations
Pay compensation for house            06/96         07/96         05/96
relocations
House relocation                   06/96-12/96    07/96-12/96    08/96-12/96
New house building                 06/96-12/96    06/96-12/96    06/96-12/96
Commence construction                10/96-06/98    07/96-12/97   07/96-06/98    04/96-06/98



- 99 -                      ANNEX6
5.    In addition to the discussions with the provincial project office, preappraisal and
appraisal missions conducted separate discussions and field trips among all subcomponents
in order to understand the basic scope of and preparation for land acquisition and
resettlement. These discussions included project affected people, to validate the findings of
the consultants on the participation process. A brief summary follows of the major mission
and consultant findings. The full resettlement plan, dated November 3, 1995, can be found
in the project files.
Wuhan Wastewater Component
6.    The proposed wastewater component includes the construction or expansion of five
treatment plants and seven pumping stations, together with approximately 90 km of
wastewater conveyors. Sites are scattered around the city, with the largest sites on the
agricultural margins of the urban area. The largest site (Longwanzui) requires acquisition
of 32.6 ha and the pumping station sites the smallest at 0.2 ha each. The wastewater
interceptors will be built along existing drainage canals or under roadways and therefore
require no additional land acquisition. Land taken has been planned to avoid any housing
removal, so all project impacts will be on income alone. An estimated 430 workers and
farmers will need new employment to restore these income streams. The total impact of the
Wuhan wastewater component will therefore be about half of total labor displacement. The
sites of five pumping stations had not been determined at appraisal. Once that is decided,
the needed supplementary resettlement information will be provided to the Bank/IDA.
7.    Because land acquisition will not require any housing removal, communities will
remain physically intact after resettlement. Therefore, if lost income streams can be
replaced through alternative employment in the neighborhood of current employment, the
social and economic fabric of the community will not be threatened by resettlement. The
land to be acquired virtually all falls under collective ownership (the exception being some
pump station land owned by state-owned enterprises). These collective lands are for the
most part controlled by collective-owned companies, in which the affected people are
employees. Land or fish ponds managed outside of such company control are typicallv
under contract to individual households within the village, though in one village such
contracts are also held by non-village (that is, unregistered) workers.
8.    Chinese resettlement compensation strategies are based on the productivitv of the
land acquired, where that productivity is measured in gross unit output value, times a
negotiated multiplier. In practice, both the base productivity figure and the multiplier are
negotiable, and depend in part on the perceived market value of the land. In this project,
agreed compensation averaged Y 1.5 million/ha ($178,000/ha) in Wuhan. Detail-, of
compensation are given in the RAP. The appraisal mission reviewed feasibility ol
compensation in terms of its ability to replace lost income. It did so by comparing the
quantum of compensation to current net income derived from the land. By this measure.
compensation was no less than 20 times net annual income.  At these levels ctf
compensation, risk-free investment in government bonds (which currently pav about
11 percent interest and are inflation-indexed) would yield incomes more than wice lhal



-100 -                      ANNEX6
forgone due to the acquisition. Additionally, labor would be freed to pursue other
productive pursuits. The appraisal mission judged that this compensation level permits
the affected units to meet the goal of fully protecting, or improving, standards of living
after resettlement.
9.    The question remains of how the collective will handle the displaced labor. Details
of their intentions have been given in the RAPs, but the basic strategy is to reemploy people
in other collective enterprises in the village or on other village lands or ponds. This strategy
is riskier than the government bond strategy, but has the advantage of providing
employment rather than simply a long term subsidy and, also potentially higher long term
income streams. It should also be noted that the resettled workers do not face a risk from
this strategy higher than that faced by all members of the affected collective, for the
collective ownership of the assets and employment spreads the risk over all villagers. It
should also be noted that all affected villages have other recent experience of involuntary
resettlement, with which they have successfully coped. They are all being absorbed into
greater urban Wuhan and as growth continues will doubtless lose their agricultural status
altogether. This process is hastened by the current project, but to this time adequate
agricultural land remains to allow those preferring agriculture to continue in that pursuit in
all but one affected village.
10.   In one village, four unregistered households with 16 members had signed a contract
to manage some of the fish ponds that will be lost. Their management contracts stated that
if the ponds were acquired by the state, no compensation would be due. However, the
village has undertaken to reemploy the workers in these families in township enterprises, so
compensation has indeed been rendered.
Wuhan Solid Waste Component
11.   This component will acquire 17.7 ha of land currently employing 176 people. In
this case, the land will be acquired from a state-owned aquatic farming enterprise that has
total holdings of over 4,000 ha of land and employs about 8,000 workers. The displaced
employees were not attached to the land in any contractual sense, but represent the average
employment per hectare across all farm holdings. Of the affected land, 12 ha was used
under loan from the district land administration bureau, which is also claiming
compensation for a permanent transfer of rights to the Environmental Sanitation Bureau. In
the agreement reached, the company will be compensated with Y 1,500,000 ($178,000) per
ha. and redeploy labor as necessary. The affected laborers will therefore experience no
change in status or income.
Huangshi Wastewater Component
12.   The Huangshi wastewvater component will require the construction of three major
wastewater conveyors and a treatment plant outfall pipe totaling some 15 km in length. In
addition, a new wastewater treatment plant with a capacity of 175,000 m3/day will be
constructed. Although interceptors will, for the most part, be laid in the watercourses
currently serving as open sewers and drains, a total of 5 ha of land and fish ponds will need



-101-                       ANNEX6
to be acquired, with two-thirds of this for the treatment plant. No families will lose their
houses to the project, but a total of 3 agricultural workers will need reemployment.
13.   The three agricultural workers needing reemployment had contracted 60 mu of fish
ponds from the Hubin Company, and were said to net some Y 1,800 per mu. The
compensation paid to the Hubin Company for labor resettlement totals Y 600,000, over five
times the net income and adequate to allow risk-free investment to cover all lost income in
place in eight-year bank accounts now yielding 18.64 percent.
Huangshi Solid Waste Component
14.   The provision of a sanitary landfill facility for Huangshi will require the acquisition
of a 12.5 ha parcel of agricultural land in the city suburbs. By acquiring nearly 30 percent
of the village land, the project will displace approximately 61 agricultural laborers who will
need alternative employment. Current agricultural income levels average about Y 2,400
annually. The village will receive some Y 2.5 million to compensate for the lost land and
jobs, or 17 times annual income. Again, a risk-free strategy with total income replacement
is available.  However, using these funds, the village intends to create alternative
employment in village enterprises. The village transport service would employ 5 men and
the construction team 26 men. The village owns catering unit, which will absorb 20 of the
displaced women workers. The remaining 10 women will be offered jobs in village-owned
shops. Wages will average Y 4,800, well above the average farm income level. Any
enterprise-based village resettlement scheme opens the workers to the risk that the
enterprise will not prosper. However, village enterprises essentially cross-insure against
such risk, as workers can be reassigned among them  as conditions warrant.  The
compensation levels are high enough that even enterprises with rates of return below those
of village enterprises as a whole will be able to meet the replacement wage bill.
Vichang Solid Waste Component
15.   The provision of a sanitary landfill facility for Yichang will require the acquisition
of a 24.3 ha parcel of agricultural land in a suburban village, taking about one fifth of total
village cultivated land. Site clearance will require 11 families (with 44 members) to
relocate their housing and 177 affected people will need new employment. The families
needing new housing will be allocated house plots in one of two existing housing clusters
within the boundaries of the existing village. Compensation will be negotiated based on the
principle of maintaining and increasing living standards. Families will make their own
arrangements for new construction and express confidence in maintaining their living
standards.
16.   To facilitate labor resettlement, the environmental sanitation bureau project office
offered one job per affected family in the landfill, with financial compensation to allow the
other family members to reconstruct their livelihoods. However, the affected villagers have
built a successful vegetable growing business, with net incomes about Y 2,400 per year, and
none was willing to become a landfill worker. Therefore, the vi'.lage governmelit hlis
elected to redistribute existing village lands to ensure that all families continue as farmer.



-102 -                      ANNEX6
The Y 4.25 million to be paid to the village (some Y 268,000 per lost job) will be used to
upgrade the existing land and purchase agricultural inputs so that per capita production and
incomes can be maintained on the reduced land base.
Xiangfan Wastewater Component
17.   The proposed wastewater conveyor system and treatment plant for the Fancheng
area of Xiangfan will require the laying of 20 km of wastewater interceptors and conveyors,
a pipe bridge conveying the wastewater to Yuliangzhou, an island in the Han River, a 3 km
long conveyor to a treatment plant and then discharge to the Han. The interceptors and
conveyors will be routed along existing drains and streets in built-up areas. Nonetheless,
construction will compels families to permanently relocate and 137 families to temporarily
relocate during a one month construction period and for new houses to be provided on the
old sites, or original houses restored, at the end of that period. The treatment plant is on an
island prone to flooding before the construction of the Danjiangkou reservoir and the plant
site has no agricultural activity. The acquisition of a 0.06 ha workshop of the Xiangfan Ship
Factory will require relocation of this operation to the main company complex. Acquisition
is not expected to materially affect company operations or employment.
18.   The biggest resettlement challenge in the project is handling the temporary
relocation of the 137 families. The families have all been visited, a census taken, and
resettlement arrangements discussed. The temporary housing, which they expect to occupy
for less than a month will be located close to their present dwellings. In most cases, only a
part of the original house will be affected. In other cases, houses must be torn down during
construction and the construction unit will be responsible for assisting them to rebuild new
housing of at least equal size and quality. During the temporary relocation, their housing
will be provided at no cost, and a relocation allowance will be paid for both moves. The
move itself will be undertaken by the construction company.
19.   The census revealed one family that did not have an urban residence permit. Under
resettlement regulations, they are not eligible for resettlement. However, the city decided to
provide them the same arrangements as all other families. To avoid legitimizing their de
facto residence, the city has listed them not by the farnily name, but as "a family from a
lower government jurisdiction."
Xiangfan Solid Waste Component
20.   The provision of a sanitary landfill facility for Xiangfan will require the acquisition
of a parcel of land in a northern suburban village. Final site selection remains to be made.
Once the selection is confinned, a separate RAP will be prepared and appraised.
Jingmen Cement General Plant Component
21.   This cement plant will relocate to a new, 11.5 ha site in Meiman village of Ziling
town. The site includes the housing of 16 families of 59 people, all of whom will be
resettled within Meiman village at a distance of no more than I km from their current



-103 -                      ANNEX6
housing. The land acquired was used for housing and associated gardening and house-
based activities. Crops were not planted on this land, which is of generally low quality for
agriculture.
22.   The families needing new housing have negotiated compensation based on housing
size and condition, averaging about Y 42,000 per house (the current housing averages just
under 70 m2 per family and is of brick and tile construction). Families will be allocated
house plots of size equal to the current plots, allowing resumption of home garden and other
activities. They will make their own arrangements for new construction and express
confidence in maintaining their living standards.
23.   Aside from the housing situation, just described, the land yielded little cash income.
As a village common land, it produced less than Y 3,750 per ha in income, or Y 43,000
total. Because current farming activities will not be affected, no labor resettlement is
needed. Based on the resettlement regulations, the village has negotiated a payment of
Y 1. I million for lost use of the land, which would yield Y 126,000 in risk-free income.
Yichang City Cement General Plant
24.   This cement plant will relocate to a new site of 11.5 ha in Huangshan village, 15 km
from Yichang. This will require 7 families with 25 members to move their houses and will
take 9.3 ha of cultivated land and fish ponds. The cultivated land take will displace an
estimated 119 workers, all of whom will need new jobs.
25.   As in other villages so affected, each family will be given a new house plot at least
as large as the old and within the existing village. In this village, affected housing has a
wider quality range than in other affected villages, with the best housing being two-story
brick-and-concrete construction and the worst adobe and wood. Compensation averages
just over Y 35,000 per family, with a high of Y 57,000 and low of Y 8,700. Again, as in
other villages, the owners will make their own rebuilding arrangements. The compensation
received is judged adequate by the owners to replace their current housing to an equal or
higher standard.
26.   The cement plant has offered to solve the labor resettlement problem by offering the
villagers staff positions in the new plant. The village will be able to offer residents the
opportunity to continue as farmers or work in the plant. The plant jobs are expected to be in
demand, as they offer much more in income and benefits than the Y 200 a month average in
farming. The village anticipates that most families will seek to keep some members ill
agriculture and place others in the plant, thus minimizing family risks while also enjoying
an increase in income.
Xiangfan City Chemical Plant Component
27.   The phosphate workshop of this plant will be removed to the phosphate rock
minehead, requiring the acquisition of 3 ha of land. That land is currently in agriculture,



-104-                         ANNEX6
and its loss will require the labor resettlement of 30 workers. No housing will be lost to the
project.
28.   To meet labor resettlement needs, 30 workers will be offered jobs in the phosphate
workshop. Average worker income in the Chemical Plant now runs about Y 5,000 per year,
in contrast to the Y 1,000 annual average income in the affected village. Employment in
the plant will therefore result in substantial income gains for the affected people. In
addition to those jobs, the village will be paid Y 1.35 million, which it can use to improve
conditions for those not directly benefiting from new jobs.
Resettlement Supervision
29.   Resettlement supervision under this project depends on a combination of normal
Chinese administrative procedure and project-specific actions. In each city, the Land
Administration Bureau has responsibility for ensuring that resettlement activities proceed
as national and local regulations require. Their supervisory activities most often find
expression through routine audits of affected collectives to see that allocated funds are
properly disbursed. Any grievance action by an affected unit or person will also trigger
special supervision.
30.   This project has two additional mechanisms to guard the interests of resettlers.
The first mechanism requires that project entities report quarterly to the provincial project
office on the progress of resettlement, detailing physical and financial progress in the
resettlement component. Simultaneously, affected collectives and enterprises are also
requested to file quarterly reports on compensation received, physical relocation, and any
issues arising. The provincial project office will review the reports for consistency and
follow-up on any problems identified. The second mechanism is that of formal outside
evaluation of resettlement activities during and subsequent to resettlement. Based on
resettlement schedules, the first evaluation is expected to take place in December 1996.
the second in June 1997, then, based on experience to date, a schedule of further external
evaluation to be defined, with a final evaluation 12 months after the final resettlement
activity.  Resettlement problems identified during either of these two additional
supervisory mechanisms will be handled first through negotiation among affected parties,
then, if that is unsuccessful, through referral to the Land Administration Bureau system
for formnal disposition.
Additional Resettlement Action Plans
31.   Every proposed investment under the Industrial Pollution Control component and
the HEPCF will be evaluated for possible resettlement impacts. If resettlement will occur, a
RAP, acceptable to the Bank/IDA, will be prepared. Likewise, any changes in project
design will be evaluated for resettlement impact and the RAP would be amended, in a
manner acceptable to the Bank/IDA, as necessary to reflect such changes.



-105 -                      ANNEX7
ANNEX 7: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
Background
1.   In 1993 the Government of China and the World Bank agreed to prepare a possible
loan for the improvement of the urban environment in four major cities in Hubei Province.
lhe project would provide approximately $160 million to the municipalities of Wuhan,
Xiangfan, Huangshi and Yichang for improvements in wastewater collection and disposal,
nightsoil collection and disposal and urban solid waste collection and disposal. For the
control of industrial pollution, some $30 million would be provided to control both water
and air pollution in highly polluting industries. The project would be an important first
effort to clean up urban lakes and rivers along the middle reaches of the Yangtze as well as
to begin dealing with serious air pollution problems.
2.    The lack of sound environmental management is now at a critical juncture in Hubei
Province as the pace of industrial development continues. Routinely, both domestic and
industrial liquid wastes are discharged into rivers, sewers and lakes untreated. Most of
these water bodies have seriously deteriorated to Class III or IV over the past few years with
several lakes such as East Lake in Wuhan becoming eutrophic and displaying algal blooms
each summer. Biological diversity in these lakes is also narrowing with the succession of
several species of carp and deposition of thick sludge layers on lake bottoms. Water
supplies must be drawn from Class II reaches of the Yangtze away frorn urban centers.
3.    In the realm of solid waste, little or no sanitary landfill practices are used. Most
solid waste is simply dumped along the periphery of cities. There is no treatment of
leachate that enters either surface waters or groundwater. Collection and transfer practices
are generally good but disposal remains a serious issue since the price of land has risen
sharply in urban areas. Modern landfill practices are therefore necessary in order to
maximize use of scarce land areas set aside for disposal. Major investment in all four
project cities for landfills, transfer stations and vehicles is therefore necessary.
4.    The project consists of over two dozen components, all with separate EAs
performed by local design and research institutes. Coordination of these studies was carried
out by HUEPO and a final, overall project EA, dated May, 1995, was prepared by Chinese
Research Academy of Environmental Sciences located in Beijing. Each of the component
EAs was reviewed at a detailed level with the overall EA providing conclusions of each.



-106 -                        ANNEX7
Basic Environmental Strategy
5.    In the area of water quality, Hubei authorities have chosen to apply an interim
environmental strategy that seeks to maximize the potential of the Yangtze River for self-
purification in the short run because of its large flows (23,400 m3/sec). This strategy
basically seeks to improve the quality of lakes and streams by diverting wastewater flows to
the river via large collectors and outfalls. Prior to discharge into the Yangtze, pretreatment
on primary treatment facilities are provided to remove solids and grit but not biological
treatment is planned in the short term for economic reasons. Hubei authorities propose to
go to primary and secondary treatment as additional financing becomes available and
depending on the biological condition of the Yangtze River as these new waste flows are
added.
6.    Sound solid waste management in Hubei Province is severely limited by the scarcity
of landfill capacity. Informal dumps exist at the periphery of most cities that need to be
upgraded to sanitary landfills. The project will establish such landfills in each of the four
cities as an pilot or demonstration so that other landfills can be developed by local
authorities. The strategy is to develop these sites so that more refuse can be disposed of in
the future as waste flows increase with population and general economic conditions.
7.    The strategy associated with the industrial pollution control components is of
reducing air pollution primarily and wastewater discharges secondarily. In project cities, up
to 70 percent of wastewater effluents are from industry discharged into a combined sewer
system or directly into lakes and rivers. The components were selected on the basis of
continued financial viability of the enterprise and the seriousness of air and water pollution
for which they are responsible. The relocation of two cement plant and the modemization
of a steel mill will do much to reduce ambient air quality pollutants such as particulate and
S02 in those respective cities. In addition, a pollution control fund will be established for
small industries and the TVIEs, which contribute a great share of both water and air
contaminants in the Province but which are difficult to control without such financial
means.
Project Components and Responsible Government Agencies
8.    Specific project components that required EAs are given below in Table I and basic
project characteristics and responsible agencies are given in Table 2.
Project Description
Social and Economic Perspectives
9.    The six major cities assisted by the Hubei Urban Environmental Projects play a
major role in the social and economic development of Hubei Province.



-107 -                                        ANNEX7
Table 1: PROJECT COMPONENTS
Project Components                            Project Name                            Project Location       EIA Category
WWM              Wuhan Wastewater Compreh. Treat.                             Wuhan                         B
Xiangfan Wastewater Treatment                                Xiangfwn                      B
Huangshi Wastewater Treatment                                Huangshi                      B
WM             Huangshi WaatesManagement                                     Huangshi                     A
Wuhan Wastes Management                                      Wuhan                         A
Xiangfan Wastes Management                                   Xiangfan                      A
Yichang Wastes Management                                    Yichang                       A
IPC            Comprehensive Environmental Protection of Echeng Iron &       Ezhou                        A
Steel Plant
Relocation of Jingmen Cement Plant                           Jingmen                       A
Wastewater Treatment of Hubei Pharmaceutical Plant           Xiangfan                      B
Relocation of Yichang Cement Plant                           Yichang                       A
Compreh. Pollution Treatment of Xiangfan Chemical Plant      Xiangfan                      B
Waste Gas and Water Treat. Engin of Erxi Chemical Plant      Xiangfan                      B
Table 2: PROJECT CHARACTERISTICS RESPONSIBLE UNITS/lEXECUTIVE UNITS
Project Name                               Project Characteristics                   Responsible Unit/Executive Unit
Wuhan Wastes Management                    Domestic refuse collection, transfer and  Wuhan Environmental Sanitaition
sanitary landfill                        Bureau (ESB)
Xiangfan Wastes Management                 As above                                  Xiangfan ESB/Solid waste Company
Yichang Wastes Management                  As above                                  Yichang ESB
Huangshi Wastes Management                 As above                                  Huangshi ESB
Wuhan Wastewater Compreh. Treatment        Urban wastewater collect(intercept),      Wuhan Urban Construction Bureau/
primary treatment, discharge into        Wastewater Company
Yangtze River at Wuhan
Xiangfan Wastewater Treatment              Urban wastewater collect(intercept.)      Xiangfan Urban Construction Bureau/
pre-treatment, discharge into Han River  Wastewater Company
Huangshi Wastewater Treatment              Urban wastewater interception for Ci      Huangshi Urban Construction Bureau/
lake area, pre-treatment and discharge   Wastewater Company
into Yangtze River
Compreh. Environmental Protection          Rebuild electric fumace & convert No. I   Echeng Iron-Steel Plant
Engin. of Echeng Iron & Steel Plant        Steel Works(waste gas treat), Industrial
wastewater treatment.
Relocation and Up-grade of Jingmen         Relocation/technology improvement         Jingmen Cement Plant
Cement Plant
Wastewater Treatment project of Hubei      Pharanaceutical wastewater treatment      Hubei PI'armaceutical Plant
Pharmaceutical Plant
Rclocation and Up-grade of Yichang         Relocation/technology improvement         Yichang Cement Plant
Cement Plant
Compreh. Pollution Treat. Engin. of        Waste gas recovery/treatment and waste    Xiangfan Chemical Plant
Xiangfan Chem. Plant                       water treatiment
Waste Gas & Water Treat Engin. of Erxi     Waste gas recovery/waste water            Erxi Chemical Plant
Chem. Plant                                treatment
10.   Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province, is one of the most famous historical and
cultural cities in China, and an important hub of communications and commerce.
Currently, the urban population of Wuhan is some 3,507,000, the population density is
4,091 person/km2 with a transient population of 800.000. With the widening of reform,



-108 -                     ANNEX7
Wuhan will continue to be a major center of industry, commerce, trade, finance,
communication, science, technology and information in Central China.
11.   Huangshi, the second major project city is located in the southeast of Hubei
Province, on1 south bank of the middle Yangtze River. It is the second largest city in the
Province. Currently, its urban population stands at 570,000, with a total population of
1,350,000 (including four districts and one county ). Following 40 years of construction,
a comprehensive industrial system is in place, which includes metallurgy, building
materials, machine, electricity, clothing, chemical engineering, textile, coal, medical,
food, light industry, electronics, etc.  With the development of industry, Huangshi
became an important center of commerce and inter-regional trade in Hubei, Jiangxi and
Anhui Provinces.
12.   Xiangfan is also a historical and cultural city with some 2,800 years of history. It
is an important communication hub with an urban population is 584,000.
13.   Yichang is an important industrial city located in the western section of Hubei
Province near Xilingkou of the Three fjord of Yangtze River. It is an important harbor
city on the line of demarcation of the upper and middle Yangtze River. In Yichang, the
number of municipal-owned and state-owned enterprises is 206, where the main
industries include chemical engineering, textiles, metallurgy, building materials,
electricity, paper and light industry, etc. Its current urban population is 380,000.
14.   Jingmen is an important communication hub in Hubei Province with advanced
communications. Additionally, the Han River that passes Jingmen city is rather ideal for
water transport. In the beginning of the 1970s, Jingmen oil refinery, Jingmen Power
Plant, and a Cement Plant were established. The current urban population is 165,600, in
which the nonagricultural population is 116,200.
15.   Ezhou is a developing city in southeast Hubei, located in middle of the Yangtze
River. It is an important component of the economic zone of the middle Yangtze River.
Ezhou City has 13 industrial departments predominated by metallurgy, building
materials, machine textile and food.
16.   Social and economic development, environmental improvements and upgrading
of quality of life are important symbols of the sustainable development in the economy in
Hubei Province.
Urban Wastewater Treatment Components
17.   Urban wastewater treatment components include establishment of wastewater
collection systems, pretreatment and primary treatment in Wuhan, Huangshi, and
Xiangfan. The main targets are to improve the drainage system of the three cities, to treat
the wastewater to a preliminary degree, improve the environmental situation of urban
natural waters and assist with recover of their various functions. Currently, wastewater
flows of the three cities are shown in Table 3 to part of which is flow.



-109 -                        ANNEX7
Table 3: THE WASTEWAT'ER DISCHARGES OF THE THREE CITIES
Ciitv                           Receiving Water Bodies     Wastewater Amount Obtained
__________ _________ _________ __   ______ _________ _________ _________(x   1 &   rn '/d )
Wuhan                      East lakc                               15.16
Nmshiui Lake                             8.12
Fuhe River                              20
Huangshi                   Ci Lake                                 54.9
Xiangfan                   Han River, Xiaoqinghe stream, Qili      53.8
stream etc.
I S.   In each of the cities, there are many sewage disposal points that are unknown and
therefore an exact accounting of flows is impossible. In East Lake in Wuhan, there are 11
discharge points. Streams in Xiangfan City have actually become wastewater channels.
19.   The capacity of urbani sewage treatment is almost nonexistent. Predominantly
sewage of the three cities drained directly to the environment without treatment. It causes
serious impact to waters such as eutrophication in important urban lakes, such as East
Lake, Moshui Lake and Ci Lake. In addition, most of these lakes have major sludge
layers at the bottom, which will make recovery much more difficult.  With the
development of urban society and economy, the amount of urban sewage will increase
year by year.
20.   The proposed sewage collection and treatment projects, according to the urban
construction and development plan, are components of a strategic planning approach of
the three cities and will play an important role in upgrading the sewage collection
treatment capacity of the three cities and improving urban environmental situation and
life quality.
21.   Wastewater Management Projects in Wuhan City. The Wuhan City urban
wastewater management project consists of wastewater collection system in East Lake
and three wastewater treatment plants in Erlangmiao, Shahu and Longwangzui; a
wastewater collection system and wastewater treatment plant in 'Western Hankou; the
wastewater collection system and wastewater treatment plant in Moshui Lake wastewater
discharge area in Hanyang Region. In addition, water exchange engineering in East Lake
of Wuchang and Moshui Lake of Hanyang is also included in the projects.
22.   The purposes of the components are as following: (a) to solve pollution problems
in East Lake to make the water quality meet the need for drinking, tourism, breeding and
cultivation, farm irrigation and entertainment and further to improve ecological
environment of the Lake area; (b) to add wastewater collecting systems in Western
Hankou in order to perfect urban service facilities, to reduce the existing threatening to
the public health and to improve environment in the region; (c) to restore water quality ill
East Lake in order to improve the drinking water quality for more than I million persons
in the region and to enhance the sustainable development of industry and tourism.



-110 -                            ANNEX7
Table 4: CHARACTERISTICS OF URBAN WASTEWATER COLLECTION
AND TREATMENT COMPONENT
Locations       Collection    Sensing      Treatment plants  Receiving water  Funds
systems       areas                           bodies      (Y 10,000)
Wuhan    Hanyang    Moshui Lake    Moshui     Nantaizihu Primary  Yangtze River
Area      Lake Region   Treatment Plant
The West    South-North   Western     Western Primary     Fuhe River
Hankou     Changfeng     Hankou       Treating Plant    Yangtze River
Area       Develop.                        Fuhe River
Airport River  Area At                       Yangtze River
Area      Western to
Yangtze
River                  __       _
East Lake    Shahu Area  East Area    Shahu Secondary   Yangtze River
Area in                               Treatment Plant
Wuchang
Longwangzui   East, Nanhu   Longwangzui       Nanhu Lake
Area        Areas        Primary Plant
Erlangmiao   East Area    Erlangmiao Primary  Yangtze River
Area                        Plant
Huangshi        South Bank    Ci Area      Chenjiawan Pre-   Yangtze River    109,75.9
Main Line                 treatment Plant
Xiangfan         Fancheng     Fancheng    Yuliangzhou Pre-    Han River       44,590
Xiangcheng     Area       treatment Plant
Xiangcheng
Area
23.    Wastewater Collection and Treatment Component in Xiangfan. Wastewater
collection and treatment component in Xiangfan City consists of wastewater interception
engineering in Xiangcheng and wastewater interception engineering in Fancheng. The
project content is interception, collection of existing discharged wastewater and passing
the wastewater into wastewater pretreatment plant in Yuliang (the secondary treatment
plant in the future), and the treated wastewater will be sent into the lower reaches of the
Han River at Xiangfan. The aims are to reduce water pollution of urban areas and water
resource intake areas, to improve the city's overall scenery, to meet the need of public
health and comfort, to ensure long-term economic and social development and
sustainable environment while maintaining rapid industrial development in Xiangfan
City.
24.    Wastewater Collection and Treatment Component in Huangshi.  Ci Lake
water pollution management project in Huangshi City includes a wastewater pipe
network, collection systems and wastewater transporting systems built in the Ci lake area,
and a pretreatment system built in the Chenjiawan area. The aim of the project is to
protect the water quality in the Ci Lake, to improve the ecological environment and urban
facilities in Huangshi city and to raise citizens' life of quality.
Urban Wastes Management Projects
25.    Urban wastes management components include solid waste collection, equipment
and landfills in Wuhan, Huangshi, Xiangfan and Yichang cities.   With continued



-111-                                   ANNEX7
development of the economy and the population increases in the four cities, urban solid
waste will also increase. Table 5 demonstrates that at the end of this century, the amount
of urban solid waste in Wuhan will reach 4,589 tpd, Huangshi 685 tpd, Xiangfan 879 tpd
and Yichang 879 tpd.
Table 5: THE HISTORICAL, CURRENT AND PREDICTED QUANTITIES OF
URBAN SOLID WASTE IN THE FOUR CITIES
Wuhan solid waste (year)                                      1990           1992          1994        2000
Wuhan solid waste, urban population ( 104)                     334            351           358         385
Total urban amount                                            3,879          4,051         4,195      4,589
Treatment amount by EPB                                       2,715          2,840         2,936      4,118
Huangshi solid waste ( year)                                   1991          1992          1993        2000
Urban population ( 104 )                                       52.3           53.1           57          64
Total urban solid waste amount                                 493            521          545         685
| Treatment amount by EPB                             |     250/370        260/380      270/410         510
| Xiangfan solid waste ( year )                      |        1991           1992          1993        2000
Urban population ( 1 04 )54.4                                                 56.7          58.4         80
Total urban solid waste amount                                 477             521          564         879
Treatment amount by EPB                                        334            364           395         792
Yichang solid waste (year)                                    1990           1991          1992        2000
Urban population (104)                                         36.4           38.3         39.1          60
Total urban solid waste amount (ton/day)                       382            366           380         693
Treatment amount by EPB                                       266            255           266         622
The amount of solid waste to be treated in sum                               5.459                    6,846
26.      Currently, each city has some capacity to collect and dispose of garbage.  For
example, Wuhan has three landfills (with the treatment capacity of 2,225 tpd). Huangshi
has a landfill (with the treatment capacity of 100 to 120 tpd). Xiangfan has a simple
landfills and Yichang has a hygienic landfill (with the treatment capacity of 250 to
350 tpd). The main problems of solid waste management of the four cities are the
insufficient capacity  of collection, transport and  disposal.   The  current method  ot
collection, transfer and disposal and current practices cause severe impacts to the urban



-112 -                       ANNEX7
environment, especially the uncontrolled piling at some temporary landfill or dispose
sites, and lack of strict quality control.
27.   The proposed solid waste management projects will increase capacity of
collection, transferring and disposal of urban solid wastes, to satisfy the requirements of
sound solid waste management in all four cities.
28.   Solid Waste Management Project in Wuhan. The solid waste management
project in Wuhan City consists of three parts: (a) to add 30 waste transport trucks; (b) to
build seven transfer stations; (c) to build Jinkou Waste Landfill deal with 2,000 tpd with
necessary accessories and facilities.
29.   Solid Waste Management Project in Xiangfan. The solid waste management
project in Xiangfan City is composed of the following new facilities: (a) 25 solid waste
transfer stations; (b) 35 compression transport truck; (c) a sanitary landfill with disposal
capacity 380 tpd, waste transporting truck parking site and working rooms, etc.
30.   Solid Waste Management Project in Yichang. The solid waste management
project in Yichang includes the following new facilities: (a) 10 closed waste-transfer
stations; (b) 67 waste transport trucks; (c) development of Huangjiawan landfill site with
the capacity of 500 tpd.
31.   Solid Waste Management Project in Huangshi. The solid waste management
project in Huangshi consists of (a) 42 waste transport trucks; (b) building 10 small waste
transfer stations; (c) building Xisai waste landfill site with capacity of 150 tpd.
Industrial Pollution Control Components (IPC)
32.   There are six subprojects in the IPC component dealing with the industrial
wastewater treatment and air pollution control in plants and the relocation of heavy
polluting enterprises from urban areas to the planned industrial zones. Five of all the
plants selected in IPC Components (Echeng Iron-Steel Plant, ITubei Pharmacology Plant,
Jingmen Cement Plant, Yichang Cement Plant, Erxi Chemical Plant) are major polluting
enterprises in China, and on the list of state operated 3,000 heavy pollution enterprises by
NEPA. All of the six plants in IPC are state-owned.
33.   The Environmental Integrated Engineering Project in Echeng Iron and Steel.
Echeng Iron & Steel Plant, located in central region of Ezhou City, is a combined iron
steel enterprise with mine, sintering, coking, iron-making, rolling and further processing.
Because of the crowded workshops and backyard equipment, the No. I steel mill does not
have adequate pollution control facilities for both emissions and wastewater discharges.
The industrial dust emission is more than 2,340 tons, accounts for 41 percent of industrial
dust emission, and 23 percent of industrial dust emissions in the central area of Ezhou
City. It is the main reason that the atmospheric quality in central region of Ezhou City is
higher than Class II state environmental standard.



-113 -                      ANNEX7
34.   The industrial wastewater of Echeng Iron-Steel Plant is 4,050 x 104 m3/year,
accounting for 93 percent of whole city in which 3195 x 1 03 m3 is drained to Yanglan
Lake, 75 x 103 m3 is directly drained into Yangtze River annually. The industrial water
utilization of Echeng Iron-Steel Plant is 1,212 x 104 m3/year. Part of the wastewater was
recycled without treatment. The wastewater discharges caused a serious impact on
surface water quality of the Yanglan Lake, the Xingang stream and the Yangtze River at
Ezhou.
35.   The proposed project includes two major parts:
(a)    Steel-making environmental project; three existing electric furnaces and
one existing turning furnace will be discarded, and a 80-ton super-high-
capacity electric furnace will be built connected to refining furnaces and
continuous casting machines. High efficient and stable smoke and dust
eliminating facilities, water treatment facilities and noise controlling
instrument will be built. In addition, a steel-slag automatic treatment
system  will be established, by which steel-slag in the whole plant
including the first plant will be changed into useful material, such as
construction material.
(b)   Industrial wastewater recycling: The cyanic-phenol wastewater produced
by the coking plant will be treated, and then discharged into the Yangtze
River though specific drainage pipelines.  In addition, a wastewater
treatment plant with a capacity of 25,000 t/h will be built with the
wastewater flowing into Mengu channel for recycling.
36.   The environmental management project for the No. 1 Steel mill is the first step of
implementation of a 10-year environment-protection plan in the Echeng Iron-Steel Plant.
The project will reduce 41 percent of the industrial dust and 14 percent of the wastewater.
The implementation of industrial wastewater recycling engineering will recycle
95 percent of the wastewater.
37.   Relocation of Jingmen Cement Plant. At the present time, Jingmen Cement
Plant with production capacity of 176,000 tons per year is located at central region of
Jingmen City, in an urban area of stores, schools and hospitals. The main environmental
problems is the discharge of industrial dust, sulfur dioxide (SO2), nitrous oxide (NOJ) and
carbon monoxide (CO). It significantly affects urban atmospheric quality, and the
health, life and work of local inhabitants. The plant not have enough pollution control
facilities with the limited area in the plant. The environmental monitoring data show that
the plant is the biggest dust source in the city. Because of size limits, relocation is the
best way to eliminate the pollution. According to Urban Environmental Strategies and
Plans of Jingmen City, the Jingmen Cement Plant will be moved from the urban area to
the construction material industry planning region outside the urban center.
38.   The proposed new project at the construction materials industrial zone will have a
cement clinker production line of 600 tpd capacity with the new dry production facility of



-114-                      ANNEX7
low-block 5-grade cyclone preheaters. All the production facilities in the urban area will
be removed, and the old factory site will be sold for use as commercial property. After
project implementation, the atmospheric quality in central urban area of Jingmen City
will be improved. With the relocation of Jingmen Cement Plant, advanced and reliable
dust collection equipment will be employed to reduce emissions.
39.   Hubei Pharmaceutical. Hubei Pharmnaceutical Plant, established in 1963, is a
national enterprise to producing medicines, preparations and medical equipment. The
existing wastewater drainage system of the plant is a combined system, and was set up in
1971. The wastewater of all workshops drains from west to east into a 700 m long
exposed ditch through the Jiaozhi channel via the unexposed ditch into the Han River.
The discharged contamination include conventional pollutants and some organic
pollutants such as nitrobenzene and nitrophenol. There is only a small wastewater
treatment plant with a capacity of 420 m3   day.
40.   The implement of this project will increase the wastewater treatment to
100 percent, and reduce greatly pollutants, especially organic. An industrial wastewater
treatment plant with capacity of 606 x 104 tons per year is proposed. Wastewater will be
treated with active sludge. Sludge will be dehydrated and solidified with gravity
concentrating and vacuum filtering.
41.   With the project, all of the wastewater will be treated. It is anticipated that COD
load and BOD5 load will be reduced per year by 2,900 tons and 1,800 tons, respectively.
The project will greatly contribute to improving the water environment in Xiangfan and
the lower reaches of the Han River.
42.   Relocation of Yichang Cement. At the present, the Yichang Cement Plant is
located in the east of Yichang City. It was established in 1958. The cement production is
220,000 tons/year. The major environmental issues are the emission of industrial dust,
S02, NO, and CO, which significantly affects urban air quality and health, and work of
the inhabitants.  The dust emission of the plant is approximately 2,601 tons/year,
accounting for 61 percent of dust emission in Yichang urban region.
43.   The project proposes to move the existing Yichang Cement Plant into the Huayan
Industrial Zone, which is 8 km east of its original site, and upgrade the cement plant with
a production line of 600 tons/year. Advanced 5-levels suspended preheater reverse kiln
technique with 95 percent reduction of dust emission is proposed. This project not only
reduces the emission of air pollutants, but also improves production quality. The existing
plant site will be changed into commercial use.
44.   Xiangfan Chemical. This plant was built in 1954 and is located in Fanxi
Industrial Zone, where its the main production is paratrisodium  phosphate.  The
wastewater is above-standard, reaching more than 1.0 million tons/year. The pollution
load of industrial wastewater takes fifth place among the biggest water polluting
enterprises of the city. The wastewater contains fluorine and high concentrations of
suspended matter passed to the Xiaoqing stream, and finally into Han River. The urban



-115 -                     ANNEX7
part of 3 km long Xiaoqing stream has become a sewer containing waters from industrial
wastewater and domestic sewage in the Fancheng region.  Because of the serious
pollution of the Xiaoqing stream, the water quality of the Han River in Xiangfan became
worse and a long pollution band along the bank has formed. The wastewater treatment
plan of Xiangfan Chemical Plant is part of the effort to control pollution in Xiaoqing
River and protect the water quality of Han River.
45.   The emission of fluorine gas from the plant is more than 20 million Nm3 annually,
which is deposited in areas near the plant. It has had a great impact to life and health of
more than 20,000 residence and workers nearby.
46.   In the project, HF, SiF4 contained in waste gas will be absorbed with wave-wheel
washing method, and will be neutralized with sodium carbonate into sodium fluoride.
The waste gas will be exhausted to meet emission standards.
47.   Erxi Chemical.  Hubei Erxi Chemical Plant is a comprehensive chemical
enterprise, located 50 km from Xiangfan City. It is a key factory in the chemical sector
with main production of synthetic ammonia, ammonium nitrate, concentrated nitric acid,
high-purity methanol, formaldehyde, sodium nitrate and sodium nitrite, etc. The main
pollutants are nitric acid , NOx in air, and COD, suspended matters, ammonia, CN and
oils in water.
48.   The pollution control project of Erxi Chemical Plant is a combined clean
production with end-pipe treatment. The proposed pollution control components include
industrial wastewater treatment, charcoal recovery and waste gas treatment. Post-project,
charcoal can be recovered to 600 tons/year, nitrate can be recovered to 5,000 tons/year,
and SS will be reduced by 800 tons/year, COD 750 tons/year, amino-nitrogen 220 tons/
year, respectively.
Baseline Conditions
Geographical Characteristics
49.   Hubei Province is located in the middle part of China and to the south of
Dongting Lake, which is in middle reaches of the Yangtze River. It extends across
108007'- 116021'E and 29025'-3320'N and covers 710km from east to west and
470 km from north to south. It is adjacent to Anhui province in the east, Jiangxi and
Hunan province in the south, Sichuan province in the west, Shanxi province in the
northwest and Henan province in the north. The province covers an area of 185,900 km2,
which occupies 1.94 percent of the country's area and is the sixteenth largest province in
China. The mountainous area is occupies 56 percent of the province's area; the hilly land
is 24 percent and plain and water area occupies 20 percent of the area.
50.   Wuhan City is the capital of Hubei Province which is in the east. The Yangtze
River flows into the Province from the southwest while the Han River from the west.
The city is divided into three parts by the Yangtze and Han Rivers, i.e., Wuchang,



-116 -                      ANNEX7
Hankou and Hanyang. Wuhan City, with flat terrain and 2-30 meter above sea level, is
mainly composed of beaches and alluvial plains, part of which is 20 meters below sea
level and is lakes and ponds. The geological structure is from the Silurian System to the
Quatemary. The Quatemary stratum is extensively distributed (occupying 90 percent of
the city's area), which consists of gravel layer in Lower Pleistocene, clay in Middle
Pleistocene, and clay, clayey soil, sandy soil, sand and gravel in Upper Pleistocene and
Complete Pleistocene.
51.   Huangshi City is the second largest city in Hubei Province. It is adjacent to the
Yangtze River in the northeast, Shihuiyao Region in the south and Huangshigang Region
in the north. The main lakes in Huangshi are Ci Lake and Qingshan Lake. The City is
located in the hilly area at the north edge of Mufu Mountain, in which Taipojian Peak,
840 m high, in Dongjiakou of Daye County is the highest peak, while the lowest area is in
the east (11 m at port bottom). The average elevation of Keyuedi is 20 to 59 m
(Huanghai elevation). The land form can be characterized by high in south and north,
low in the middle and with lakes within the area.
52.   Yichang City is located in the west of Hubei province, which is a city in the area
of upstream and middle reaches of the Yangtze River. It is divided into two parts by the
River. The city is located in the hilly area, which is at the boundary between Erxi
mountain area and west edge of Jianghan plain. The geological structure is the settling
zone of Jianghan plain. The surface ground is covered with clay as well as small pebbles.
The city area adjacent to the river is flat with elevation of 35 to 80 m above sea level.
The elevation of the hinterland mountain area is 120 to 300 m.
53.   Xiangfan City is located in the northwest of Hubei Province, which is the
juncture of Hubei, Henan, Sichuan and Shanxi Provinces. It is divided into two parts by
the Han River, i.e., Xiangcheng and Fancheng. The Han River, the biggest branch river
in Hubei province, flows into Xiangfan from the west. The city is located in Han River
Valley plain with flat terrain and average gradient of 1%-3%. The area is inclining from
northwest to southeast. The elevation of the first-stage bench is 65 to 68.5 m and that of
the second-stage bench is usually 66 to 80 m.
54.   Ezhou City is located in the southeast of Hubei province, on the north bank of
Yangtze River and downstream of Wuhan City. The city is located in Binhu Area on the
south bank of the Yangtze River and is in the southeast of Jianghan Plain. There are both
alluvial plain and hilly grounds in the area. The terrain is highler in the southeast and
lower in the northwest and has plain in the middle part. The general elevation is
approximately 28 m for the city.
55.   Jingmen City is located in the middle part of Hubei province and in the Han
River valley. The city is located in the transition zone extended from Jingshan Mountain
(south branch of Qinling Mountain) to Jianghan Plain, which belongs to Ezhong Hilly
Area.



-117 -                     ANNEX7
Meteorology and Climate
56.   The yearly average temperature of the province is 13-18C. The coldest month is
January and the monthly average temperature in winter is 2-4C. The yearly precipitation
is 800 to 1,600 mm that is reducing from south to north. Maximum precipitation of most
areas in one year occurs in the summer, which is 300-700 mm, whereas minimum
precipitation occurs in winter, which is 30-190 mm. Generally speaking, precipitation in
spring is more than that in autumn, but contrary situation occurs in West Hubei. The
yearly precipitation is centralized in May-September, which is greatly affected by
summer wind. The precipitation in these five months covers 60 to 70 percent of the
yearly precipitation.
57.   Calamitous weather is often the case in Hubei province, in which drought, flood,
low temperature and much rain in spring, coldness in autumn and hail are commonly
seen. Drought and flood are the most disastrous. The mostly commonly-seen natural
calamity is drought and frequent drought maybe occur in middle summer and autumn
(July to September) with long period, extensive scope and big influence on crops.
Hydrology and Hydrography
58.   Hubei Province lies in the Yangtze River basin. There are in total 1,193 rivers in
the province with a total length of more than 37,000 km, among which 42 rivers are more
2
than 100 km long. Accumulated water area of rivers is 131,567 km, covering 70 percent
of the total area of the province. Due to the influence of topography, rivers flow from
mountains around to the plain in the middle part and congest into the Yangtze River.
59.   The Yangtze River basin is a typical monsoon climate area.  It has rich
precipitation with average precipitation over years being 1,100 mm. The precipitation of
south river is more than that of north river, while the precipitation from middle reaches to
downstream is more than that from middle reaches to upstream. The precipitation time in
Yangtze River basin is closely related to monsoon. Seventy to 90 percent of yearly
precipitation is centralized from May to October.
60.   The Yangtze River runs from west to east across 26 counties and cities in Hubei
province. It flows in from Pianyuxi in Badong County and out at Binjiang in Huangmei
county, with total length of 1,061 km. The maximum flow rate of Yangtze River is
76,100 m3/s (Hankou hygrometric station and following is the same) and the minimum
flow rate is 2,930 m 3/s, with an average flow rate of 23,400 m 3/s. The yearly average
sand transport is 430 million tons, with the maximum volume of 579 million tons in 1964
and the minimum volume of 150 million tons in 1963. The Yangtze River has rich
hydraulic resources with a total length of 5,400 m from river source to mouth.
61.   The Han River is the biggest branch at the middle reaches of the Yangtze River,
which runs from northwest to southeast. It flows from Baihe County of Shanxi province
and into Yunxi county, which runs across 13 counties and cities and into the Yangtze
River at Wuhan. The length in Hubei Province is 878 km. The yearly maximum flow



-118 -                     ANNEX7
rate is 29,100 m3/s and the minimum flow rate is 172 m3/s, with an average yearly flow
rate of 1,640 m3/s and an average yearly sand transport of 127 million tons. The Han
River basin has relatively rich hydraulic resources with a total flow of 1,964 m in the
main stream.
62.   Hubei province is usually called "province with thousands of lakes." There are
320 lakes at present, with a water area of 220 km2. The adjustable storage of lakes is
above 3 billion m3. In a rich water year they can store more than 15 billion m3, which is
equal to 15.9 percent of surface runoff of the province.
63.   East Lake lies on the south bank of Yangtze River, Wuchang District of Wuhan
City, which is a shallow lake in Jianhan lake group. The accumulated area is 119 km2
and the lake surface area is 30.7 km2 at the yearly water level of 19.5 m. The volume of
the lake is 735.0 x 104 m3 and the average depth is 2.56 m.
64.   Moshui Lake is a small shallow lake in Hanyang District of Wuhan.  Its
2                                2
accumulated water area is 21.9 km  and the lake surface area is 3.35 km  at the yearly
6 3
water level of 19.0 m. The volume is 4.4 x 10 m3.
65.   Nantaizi Lake lies in southwest of Hanvang District. The average water area is
5.3 km2 and the average volume is 200 x 10 m . Nantaizi Lake, Sanjiao Lake and
Houguan Lake comprise Dong Lake in Hanyang county (now called Caidian region).
The main rain receiving area is 360 kmn and all lakes are connected with one another in
case of flood . Nantaizi Lake is connected with Yangtze River through the Dongfeng Gate
and East Lake pump station and flood cannot flow back from Yangtze River in flood
period. Moshui Lake is connected with Nantaizi Lake through artificial channels such as
Sixin port and Jiandi connection port, and the lake water can be discharged into the
Yangtze River through the Dongfeng Gate.
66.   Nanhu Lake is located in south of Wuchang District, with surface area of 5.9 km2.
It is connected with Xunsi River ( branch of Yangtze River ) through a branch channel to
the west of the lake. In winter, lake water is discharged by gravity into the River through
Wutai Gate, but in high-water period it shall be pumped into the River by Tangxun Lake
pump station. The main function of the lake is for storage adjustment and sewage
receiving.
2
67.   Ci Lake lies in the center of Huangshi City with water area of 8.15 km , congested
water area of 62.8 km2 and volume of 1,716 x 104 m3 . The reserving period of water is
200 days. Water will be discharged by gravity as water level of Yangtze River is lower
than that of Chi Lake and discharged by pump when contrary situation occurs.



-119 -                      ANNEX7
Existing Environmental Quality
Water Quality
68.   According to water quality monitoring for the Yangtze River from 1986 to 1990,
the water quality of the Hubei reach of the main stream of the Yangtze River is good in
general, most monitoring indicators at all sections meeting with Class II standard of
surface water, with very low detection rate for volatile phenol, cyanide, arsenide, Cr6+,
pb and Cd, except that few items in some areas exceed the national standard.
69.   The Yangtze River at Wuhan. The reach should meet with Class 11 standards.
In the first two years, DO and NH3-N exceed the standards while in the later three years
organic phenol and colititer exceed the standards. The COD concentration is obviously
higher than that at the upper reaches while the concentration of all the pollutants at the
Gongyegang Section is higher than that at other three sections.
70.   The Yangtze River at Huangshi. The background section at Yangtze River
Gorges has a good water quality with the main pollutant of suspended solids. The water
quality at Xiseshan section is rather good except for the increasing concentration of
volatile phenol (still up to the standard). Affected by the urban sewage, the main
pollutants are suspended solid in the full and normal flow seasons and volatile phenol in
the dry flow seasons. Huajingtun section has the similar situation as Xiseshan section
with somewhat less volatile phenol pollution.
71.   The Han River at Xiangfan. As the second largest river in Hubei Province, the
Han River enters the Province from Shuhekou of Shanxi, flowing through Xunyang,
Xiangfan, Jingzhou and Xiaogan, and finally converges into the Yangtze River. The
average date of the 15 water quality indicators over five years meets with Class II
standards except that NH3-N is 0.16 times greater than the standard in the dry flow season
in 1986. The indicators that instantaneous values exceed the standards are NH3-N, NO2,
BOD5, COD, pH, SS and volatile phenol.
72.   Tributaries of the Han River. The Xiaoqinhe stream is the primary tributary of
the Han River, receiving large quantities of domestic and industrial wastewater, resulting
in serious water pollution. At some river reaches, the concentration of BOD5 exceeds
Class V of national surface water standard while COD, Mn, NH3-N and pH exceed Class
IV standards.
73.   The Huchenghe stream, surrounding the east, south and west of Xiangyang, is an
enclosed water-storage landscape water body. The sewage discharge has resulted in
serious eutrophication, with COD, BOD5, NH3-N, TP exceed the requirement of Class II
standard.
74.   The East Lake. Most of the lake area is of light pollution, exceeding Class III
national standards, with the major pollutants of TN, TP, BOD5, COD, SS, phenol and
coliform.



- 120 -                    ANNEX7
75.   The Moshui Lake. The lake receive 2.6 x 107 m3 of domestic and industrial
wastewater, or 1.76 times of the rain runoff annually. The major pollutants in this
seriously polluted lake are COD, BOD5, TP and Pollutants in this seriously polluted lake
are COD, BOD5, TP and TN, exceeding Class V of national standard (GB 3838-88).
76.   The Ci Lake. Ci Lake has also a poor water quality with seriously-polluted area
of 2.3 kimn, accounting for 31 percent of the total water coverage. COD, TP and TN far
exceed the national standards, e.g., COD exceeds the standard 1.8-4.8 times, TP with 0.7-
14 times and TN with 2.4-73.2 times.
Air Quality
77.   Atmospheric environment monitoring network in Hubei province was set up in
1982. Up to 1990, 36 monitoring stations were introduced in the network and with total
number of 139 sampling points for atmospheric monitoring, 127 points for urban and 12
points as background. Main items to be monitored include SO2, NO, and TSP (Total
Suspended Particles). Table 6 is the results of monitoring atmospheric environment
quality in 1990 at six cities with which the project is concerned.
Table 6: MONITORING RESULTS OF AIR QUALITY IN 1990 FOR SIX CITIES
City                                    Uniterm index
S02               NOX                TSP
Wuhan                    0.30              0.39               0.60
Huangshi                 0.69              0.35               1 .09
Yichang                  1.90              0.40               0.96
Xiangfan                 0.27              0.24               1.12
Ezhou                    0.52              0.16               0.95
lingmen                  0.15              0.27               1.13
78.   Method of uniterm index is adopted for calculation and assessment according to
Type 11 of Class II Area in national standard GB3095-82. Atmospheric condition in six
cities of Hubei province refers to Table 7.



-121-                      ANNEX7
Table 7: ATMOSPHERIC ENVIRONMENT OF SIX CITIES (assessment results)
Yearly 5-da3'    Daily aver. concen-   Daily aver. beyond
City       Item    aver. (mg/m )     tration (mg/mr)      standard(%)
Wuhan    S02          0.045           0.005-0.531             3.0
NO.         0.039           0.003-0.268             5.0
TSP         0.18            0.015-0.86
Huangshi  SO2         0.103           0.005-0.519            19.4
NO,         0.035           0.007-0.110             1.1
TSP         0.32            0.066-1.29             50
Yichang   SO2         0.285           0.005-0.820            70.0
NO,         0.040           0.003-0.174             3.0
TSP         0.29            0.03-0.83              37.0
Xiangfan  SO2         0.041           0.005-0.185             2.7
NO,,        0.025           0.003-0.089
TSP         0.35            0.05-0.90              56.0
Ezhou     SO2         0.085           0.005-0.233            17.2
NOX         0.016           0.004-0.054             5.6
TSP         0.29            0.05-0.67              46.6
Jingmen   So2         0.025           0.005-0.127
NOx         0.029           0.009-0.101             1.5
TSP         0.35            0.05-1.10              50.8
79.   As inferred from the tables, SO2 of Yichang, Huangshi and Ezhou have seriously
exceeded the standard, with daily average beyond the standard being 70 percent,
19.4 percent and 17 percent, respectively. Regarding NOx, daily average beyond the
standard in each city is less than 6 percent; it is very common that TSP has exceeded the
standard. Especially in four cities where industrial pollution control project is located,
the daily average beyond the standard is very high with high uniterm index.
Environmental Impacts
Wastewater Management Projects
80.   The proposed urban wastewater treatment projects mainly aim at wastewater
collection, treatment and discharge.
81.   Major Environmental Issues. The environmental impact of the proposed
projects occurs primary in the construction phase.



-122 -                       ANNEX7
(a)   The construction phase. Impacts as the result of requisition of land and
possible moving of the houses and enterprises in the preparatory stage:
(i)   resettlements activities;
(ii)    dust raised by construction and spoils management;
(iii)    noise and vibration;
(iv)    environmental system change resulted from vegetation destruction;
(v)    potential road and traffic jam from construction traffic;
(vi)    potential groundwater impacts.
(b)   The Operation phase
(i)   treatment and disposal of the wastes, sludge and stenches from
pretreatment plant and pumping stations;
(ii)    noise and vibration from retreatment plant and pumping stations;
(iii)   impact of centralized discharge of wastewater on water bodies (the
Yangtze River and the Han River);
(iv)    impact of centralized discharge of sewage on aquatic organisms
and benthos;
(v)    impact of equipment check discharge and emergency discharges on
receiving water bodies.
Solid Waste Management Projects
82.   Urban solid waste management projects involve three components, i.e., solid
waste collection, transfer and comprehensive treatment/landfill.
(a)    Major environmental problems in collection and transfer
(i)    odors;
(ii)   refuse wastewater;
(iii)    noise.



-123 -                      ANNEX7
(b)   Major environmental problems with disposal
(i)    The land requisition and preparatory phase
a.    Resettlement;
b.    Impact on surrounding residents.
(c)   The construction phase
(i)   structure and composition change of topsoil and destruction of
existing vegetation resulted from the topsoil stripping and
compaction;
(ii)   soil erosion and dust, noise and tail gas from construction;
(iii)    destruction of existing ecological landscape from the change of
land use.
(d)   The operational phase
(i)   dust;
(ii)    odors;
(iii)   traffic;
(iv)    noise;
(v)    leachate leakage.
(e)    Landfill closure phase. When the landfill is full, the site is closed and
ecological recovery performed.  Major environmental problems are:
potential impact of the leaching solution on surface water and
groundwater.
Relocation of Cement Plants
83.   The newly-established production lines of Yichang Cement Plant and Jinmen
Cement Plant are of the same configuration.
84.   Major Environmental Problems.
(a)   The Construction phase
(i)   vegetation destruction from land use or temporary land use;
(ii)    noise and vibration;



-124 -                       ANNEX7
(iii)    dust, the gases from transport and construction;
(iv)    discarded evacuated earth and garbage;
(v)    discharge of construction wastewater and workers' sewage;
(vi)    dust, noise and solid waste from removing of existing plant;
(vii)    plant staff emigration and corresponding services.
(b)   The Operation Phase
(i)    air quality decrease from the discharge of dusts, SO2, NO, and CO;
(ii)   impact of leakage water from raw/auxiliary materials stocks on
groundwater;
(iii)    discharge of cooling water;
(iv)    noise;
(v)    traffic noise, exhaust gases and traffic jam from material transport;
(vi)   impact of dust emission on animals and plants;
(vii)   impact of dust emission on human health;
(viii)   sewage and refuse discharge.
Echeng Iron & Steel
85.   The project proposes to tackle the problem of innovation of steel-making capacity,
cleaning and recycling of industrial wastewater, and treatment before discharge into the
Yangtze River of cyanic and phenolic wastewater.
86.   Major Environmental Problems
(a)    The Construction phase
(i)    noise, dusts and solid waste from removing the discarded electric
furnaces and revolving furnace;
(ii)    vegetation destruction from land use and temporary land use;
(iii)    noise and vibration;
(iv)    disposal of the construction wastes;



-125 -                       ANNEX7
(v)    dusts and tail gases;
(vi)    wastewater discharge.
(b)    The Operation Phase
(i)    emission of dusts, S02, NO, and CO;
(ii)   stenches, noise, vibration and sludge from  sewage plant and
pumping stations;
(iii)   impact of the cyanic phenolic wastewater discharge on water
quality and water eclogue;
(iv)    disposal of sludge in the open drainage ditch.
Review of Alternatives
87.   In the selection of project components and sites, a complex process of review was
undertaken. First, a long list of components were proposed by municipal officials with
the aid of experts consultants. Some 68 components in the four project cities involving
wastewater were initially proposed, of which seven were finally selected. Cleanup of
East Lake in Wuhan was ranked as Number One because some 10 percent of the city's
water supply comes from this highly polluted source. Once projects were selected, a
review of alternatives required a least-cost approach, involving the least disruption, was
proposed.
88.   On the solid waste side, altematives involved a review of landfill sites and transfer
station sites based on financial resources available. Other disposal methods such as
incineration and composting were immediately rejected as being too uncertain in terms of
reliability and high costs. The only reliable disposal option is sanitary landfilling but the
question of picking a site can be complex. The sites selected (Jinkou in Wuhan for
example) were either already being used as a landfill or a dump, or have been studied for
some time by municipal authorities, design institutes and geotechnical consultants.
89.   The selected sites have to have several attributes; cheap land and of sufficient
scale; easily accessible for transport vehicles; away from communities; a stable and
predictable hydrology; adorable geotechnical characteristics such as an impervious
bottom layer; the availability of cover soil; and a suitable discharge point for the leachate.
Each of the project cities had only three or four candidate sites and the most favorable
was clearly evident.
90.   The issue of wastewater collection coupled with pretreatment was one that
required careful study. The concept as pointed out earlier was to clean up Yangtze
tributaries and urban lakes to the detriment of the Yangtze River itself. Again, reasons
for this included the massive scale of flow and the river's large assimilation capacity.



-126 -                      ANNEX7
This capacity can be used in the short term to dispose of large quantities of urban
wastewater while urban lakes recover and funds are sought for primary and secondary
treatment.
91.   Review of alternatives of IPC components was done by the various technical
design institutes based on expected pollution control benefits, effluent and emission
standards and cost. For each IPC component several alternatives were proposed but
generally, the final decision was based on accepted practice in that industry. In the
modernization of industrial facilities whether a new electric arc furnace or a rotary kiln
for cement production, industry experts usually agree on a single approach.
92.   In the Hubei Urban Environment Project, the review of alternatives was a key step
in component selection as well as in determining how those components would be
implemented. Only sensible and proven approaches were suggested. An exceptionally
wide range of alternatives was rejected because tight funds cannot be squandered.
Environmental Management and Monitoring
93.   Management and monitoring of the proposed pollution control facilities will
require the full attention of local ESBs, EPBs and Provincial EPB. Each of the EIAs as
well as the component feasibility studies include detailed management and monitoring
plans. Provincial and national standards exist for emissions, ambient air quality, water
quality and wastewater discharges. These standards will be rigorously applied in every
case.
94.   In the case of sanitary landfills, sampling points must be established at wells,
treatment plant outfalls and at some distance from the facility for air quality monitoring.
Simple checks of COD, pH and BOD can be carried out on a frequent basis by landfill
staff with the assistance of the local EPBs. More complex monitoring and laboratory
analysis for heavy metals and other hard to detect pollutants a provincial laboratory
should be used. Data from these landfills should be routinely passed to the Provincial
ESB and EPB for final analysis.
95.   In the case of the wastewater components, it is vital that the water quality of the
lakes and rivers from which wastes have been diverted are carefully monitored to be sure
that there is no further deterioration. Clearly, water quality on receiving reaches of the
Yangtze should be frequently checked to be sure the either Class II or III be maintained.
Simple checks of BOD, COD, DO and pH should establish the basic condition of the
water body. This sampling and preliminary analysis can be carried out by local EPB
authorities but the data should also be made available to the Provincial EPB for final
analysis and to be able to track the project as a whole.
96.   For the IPC components, it will be up to both environmental staffs of the
enterprise and local EPBs to carry out sampling. Specifically they need to monitor TSP,
SO2, NO, and CO for compliance to standards. In the case of the Echeng Iron and Steel



-127 -                     ANNEX7
facility and in Jingmen and Yichang, it is vital to determine the improvement in urban air
quality over time as a result of the investments.



-128 -                                                ANNEX8
ANNEX 8: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
im       I    19"             1997           1996           I              2000     i    2001
il!2'3141213                                                      134lj  1-314111213  4  1  2.3  4
HuongsN Wastes
De"n & Docu"wntabomi
Undo
Construct[on I
W&aW^vWr
Dnqn & Documentation
Tender Procedure,
r-onstrWian I
Wuhan Wastes
Dosqn & Documentation;
T"er Procedure!
Construcbon i                                                       I
Wuhan Wastwmter
De"n &    um4in-tistion
Tender Ptooodure  I                       I 11 I 11 I I 11 I 11 III I 11 I 11 I 11 I III I 11 I fill I
Construction I
XAr4sn Wean                           7-"M
Deagn & Docunwntabon i
Tondw Pfocwuto
c
XAsnafen W
7.1 Docunwntabon i
Tender Procedufs i
Construction,
Yschong Wasfts
Dngn & Documentation
Tender Procedure i
Construcbon
Echerig km & SaW.Restructure
Do"n & Documentotion i
Tender Procedure I
Construct-on
Eo" Iron A SUW-WW Treatment
Dmgn & Documontaton
Tender Procedure,
Construction,
Pollution Control Furvd
Technical AssmUrrA
Pac" A!
POC     a
Othor i
Waftr Ouality Monftnng
De"n & Documentation
Tender Procedure,
Construction



-129 -                           ANNEX9
ANNEX 9: SUPERVISION PLAN
(Proposed Bank Supervision Input)
Proposed                Activities                 Expected Skill Requirement   Staff Input
Date                                                                           (SW)
02/96    Proiect Launch Workshop              Economist, Financial Analyst,       6
Review institutional development and  Engineer, Procurement Specialist
tariff implementation, retroactive
financing work, project organization,
procurement financial management and
reporting requirements.
06/96    Supervision Mission                  Engineer, Financial Analyst,        8
Review institutional development,    Industrial Specialist, Mechanical
fmnancial management, procurement,   Engineer, Solid Waste Specialist
physical works.
11/96    Supervision Mission                  Engineer, Mechanical Engineer,      8
Review institutional development, utility    Financial Analyst
finances, (including tariff implementation)
and procurement, industrial pollution
control performnance.
06/97    Supervision Mission                  Engineer, Financial Analyst, Solid  8
Review institutional development, tariff    Waste Specialist
implementation, progress in construction,
solid waste.
11/97    Supervision Mission                  Engineer, Mechanical Engineer,     10
Mid-term review of institutional     Industry Specialist, Financial
development, utility finances, (including    Analyst, Economist
tariff implementation) financial
management, construction and
construction management, procurement,
industrial pollution control.
06/98    Supervision Mission                  Engineer, Financial Analyst,       10
Review progress in institutional     Industry Specialist, Mechanical
development, utility finances (including  Engineer, Solid Waste Specialist,
tariff implementation) treatment plants/  Economist.
infrastructure, solid waste and industrial
pollution control.
1999 -   At least one supervision mission a year,    To be determined depending on
2002    and last mission should discuss with  progress.
borrower preparation of ICR.
A sanitary engineer would be provided by the Resident Mission in China, Beijing. Specialists in mechanical
engineering, procurement, resettlement, solid waste would be provided by Headquarters staff, if available,
otherwise by consultants. Other staff inputs would be from Headquarters.



- 130-                             ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: HUBEI PROVINCE ORGANIZATION
Chart 1: ORGANIZATION OF HUBEI PROVINCE
Hubei People's Congress
Hubei Provincial Government
Audit Bureau                           General Office                       Public Security Bureau
Price Bureau                           Planning Commission                  Procurate
Environmental Protection Bureau       Economic Commission                   Civil Affairs Bureau
Land Administration Bureau            Systems Reform Office                Inspection Bureau
Statistical Bureau                     Finance Bureau                       Minorities and Religious Bureau
Tax Bureau                             Labor Bureau
Urban and Rural Construction Bureau
Communications Bureau                Cultural Bureau                         Foreign Affairs Bureau
Water Resources Bureau               Education Commission                    Research Office
Industrial Bureaus                   Health Bureau                           Overseas Chinese Affairs Office
Commercial Bureau                    Broadcasting Bureau                     Ombudsman



Chart 2: Hubei Urban Environmental Project - Project Organization
| Hubei Provincial                       E
Govemm ernt 
Ubi  i Urban Environmental
eiOGect Leading Group
ubei ~          [ue                Municipl Goe_mnms |                                                           onmenta
Panning                nicial             (uhiani                           Munn9ipa Constuctiio n           Muni Envirnmel                                ui  Auditing
|Commission  han| Huangshi| [un  | CommiPr tction Bureaus                               |                    |Bureaus (
|   unicipaI                      Hube Ura Erro                    Hue Environmentalln
Offices ~ ~ ~ OMiS1o |Bureaus
rte                        Bureau 
C
F-c-.i.d Waste Subpoject  Errvironmenta



- 132 -                     ANNEX 11
ANNEX 11: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT
ACTION PLAN
Implementation Goals
1.    The objectives of the proposed Environmental Improvement Action Plan (EIAP)
are to: (a) improve, during the implementation period of HUEP, the effectiveness of
HEPB in applying its pollution control regulations through the pollution discharge permit
system; (b) carry out research in priority areas of pollution control in Hubei; and
(c) implement a com
prehensive training program at all levels in the Province to improve the capacity of staff
involved in environmental protection in the Province.
2.    The~ planned program indicating goals to improve enforcement of the pollution
control levy fees is shown in Table 1 and the annual targets for ensuring industries in the
Province have pollution control permits are shown in Table 2.
Table 1: IMPROVED ENFORCEMENT OF POLLUTION LEVY FEE
Year                       Percentage
1994                          40%
1995                          40%
1996                          45%
1997                          50%"o
1998                          55%
1999                          60%
2000                          65%



- 133 -                    ANNEX 11
Table 2: POLLUTION DISCHARGE PERMIT SYSTEM As A PERCENTAGE
OF ALL INDUSTRIES WITH POLLUTING DISCHARGES
Industries with                  % of Total
Year                Discharge Permit              Pollution Discharge
1994                      143                            20%
1995                      300                            35%
1996                      500                            60%
1997                      800                            80%
1998                     1,000                           85%
1999                     1,200                           90%
2000                     1,500                           95%
3.    The provincial program to close down or retool high-impact polluters requiring
special financial assistance is determined annually. In the first quarter of each year,
consultations among the provincial EPB, Planning Commission, Finance Bureau, and
other relevant agencies determines target enterprises. In 1994, these totaled 159 and in
1995, 92.
Research Program
4.    The planned research program includes four studies:
(a)   Survey  of Township  and  Village Enterprise  (TVE) Pollution
Discharges: The TVE industrial sector in rural areas is a rapidly growing
and increasingly important part of China's economy. In recent years in
Hubei, water and air pollution from TVEs represented about 2.2 and
11.7 percent, respectively, of the province's total pollution discharges.
Pollution from TVEs, while not large at this time, represents a growing
problem in the province, because most have no pollution control systems.
The proposed survey will assess all TVEs in Hubei. It will include
assessment of the existing economic situation of each enterprise,
production capacity, process technology, waste discharges, pollution
control and management. Some limited data collection will take place
where statistics are not already available. The future potential pollution
from TVEs.  Costs of treating emissions or substitution of cleaner
technology will be determined and a time-kt und :mplementation program
will be established. The Y 1.0 million survev is expected to start l!v tli
end of 1996 and be completed by mid- 1 998.



-134 -                      ANNEX II
(b)   Survey of Discharge Permit System Implementation: The pollution
control discharge  permit system, established  in  1989, is being
implemented in Hubei to reduce air and water pollution in the Province.
To date, about 1,500 industries have applied for a permnit, but only 150
have been issued.  The current implementation program  calls for
95 percent of the industries to be issued permits by the year 2000. This
study/program will serve to promote the pollution control permit system
among industries in Hubei.  It will stress the importance of its
implementation and enforcement, and ensure the collection of the total
levies determined to be assessable. The Y 500,000 survey is expected to
commence in mid-1996 and is to be completed by mid-1997.
(c)    Study of Pollution Control of Fertilizer Industry in Hubei: There are
about 64 nitrogenous and 40 phosphatic fertilizer plants of varying sizes in
Hubei, producing about 900,000 and 550,000 tons, respectively, per year.
Air pollution emissions from fertilizer plants represent about 25 percent of
the total air pollution in urban areas. The proposed study will: (i) assess
the existing production and water/air pollution situation for fertilizer plants
in Hubei; (ii) determine the impact of anticipated future paper production
capacity; (iii) determine pollution control and technology choice that will
bring the industry into compliance with environmental standards;
(iv) estimate the cost of the interventions and (v) set out a multiyear
program to implement the proposed systems. Estimated cost of the study
is Y 500,000. It is expected to commence by the end of 1996 and be
completed by the end of 1997.
(d)   Study of Pollution Control of Pulp and Paper Industry in Hubei:
There are 327 paper mills in lIubei, producing about 500,000 tons per
year, which places Hubei thirteenth in production capacity in China. Only
about 12 percent of the wastewater discharges is treated to standards, and
the remainder is discharged, untreated, to watercourses. The proposed
study will:  (i) assess the existing production and water/air pollution
situation for paper mills in Hubei; (ii) determine the impact of anticipated
future paper production capacity; (iii) determine pollution control and
technology choice that will bring the industry into compliance with
environmental standards; (iv) estimate the cost of the interventions and
(v) set out a multiyear program to implement the proposed systems.
Estimated cost of the study is Y 600,000. It is expected to commence by
mid- 1996 and be completed by mid- 1997.
5.    The research program serves several purposes. The TVE study will help EPB
assess the impact of TVE pollution and adequacy of EPB regulations. Based onI the
study, the provincial EPB will seek any needed regulatory changes. The discharge permnit
study evaluates EPB's most important policv change over the life of the project, and will



-135-                     ANNEXI1
highlight needed adjustments in the policy. The industry pollution control studies will be
implemented in part through HEPCF financing.
Training Program
6.    The training program of the EIAP includes for training at provincial, national and
international levels. It is expected that about 1,000 environmental staff and officials per
year would be involved in some form of training under the EIAP. The total cost of the
training program is estimated to be Y 808,000. The areas of training are indicated below:
(a)   Environmental Planning
(b)   Environmental Statistics
(c)   Environmental Planning
(d)   Registration of Discharges
(e)   Discharge Permit
(f)   21 st Century Agenda
(g)   Environmental Protection Archives
(h)   Environmental Monitoring
(i)   Environmental Products
(j)   Nature Reserves Management Regulation
(k)   Environmental Management of Construction
(I)   Public Clerk System of Environmental Protection Sector



- 136-                      ANNEX 12
ANNEX 12: HUBEI ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION
CONTROL FUND
Introduction
1.    China is taking a variety of measures to bring municipal and industrial pollution
under control. One method, addressed to industries, is to create revolving loan funds at the
provincial or municipal level that provide financing for the control of liquid, solid and
gaseous wastes, particularly to those with the greatest environrnental impact. A regulatory
framework wherein industries are required to meet specified waste discharge standards and
an institutional structure to organize and operate the funds are prerequisite to their success.
Almost 4,000 people are engaged in pollution control activities in the province.
2.    In 1982, Chinese environmental law provided for the establishment of provincial.
municipal, and county environmental funds financed by pollution fees. These originally
provided subsidies and grants for pollution reduction investments in industrial and
municipal pollution reduction projects, and for EPB environmental monitoring and
enforcement. In 1988, an amendment allowed up to 30 percent of the fees to be loaned.
rather than granted, to enterprises.  Bank projects in Tianjin, Jiangsu, Liaoning and
Zhejiang, and the Medium-Sized Cities project, have supported improved environmental
fund project identification and management.
Pollution Fee Collection and Use in Hubei Province
3.    In Hubei, municipal and county EPBs collect pollution fees, while the provincial,
municipal and county EPBs jointly plan fee collection and utilization. According to a fund
allocation plan provided by the EPBs, the local finance bureaus issue orders and extend
funds to subprovincial level PCBCs for loan disbursement.
4.    Fees are assessed according to waste discharge information provided to levy offices
by the local monitoring stations. On the average, large polluting industries should be
monitored monthly. However, due to lack of monitoring resources, some industries receive
their fee bill according to waste discharge load estimates by monitoring stations. In Hubei.
the top individual polluters remain the steel industry, cement and chemicals.
5.    Fee rates have been established for wastewater discharges, waste gas emissions,
solid waste dumping and noise pollution. Between 1985 and 1993, total fee collection
amounts to Y 583 million from 5,640 enterprises. Of the collected fees, about 71 percent
were used for industrial pollution control, 4 percent for nonindustrial environmental
improvement projects and 25 percent for EPBs' environmental monitoring and



-137-                       ANNEX 12
eniorcement. During 1985 to 1993, about 7,800 industrial pollution control projects were
supported by pollution fee funds, totaling about Y 1.2 billion, of which 24 percent came
froii El'13 sources. In 1993 alone, some 209 pollution sources were treated. Pollution fees
for indtustrial pollution control clearly played an important role in Hubei.
6.    Bank Experience in China with Environmental Funds. The Bank has supported
the establishment of environmental funds under five different projects and four of them
have been in operation for at least one year. The Bank-assisted funds were found to have
the following advantages over other funds:
(a)   they provide a stronger framework for management, including organization,
staffing and operation regulations, and, indirectly, provide the basis for other
environmental protection management measures including the permit
system and the promotion of pollution prevention programs;
(b)   institute rigorous requirements and procedures for project preparation and
appraisal ensuring a higher project success rate; and
(c)   provide training for capacity-building to staff of the fund offices in the
technical and financial areas.
7.    On the other hand, appraisal procedures have been expensive compared to the size
of the typical loan, which has been under $1.0 million. Due regard needs to be given to
modifications of the appraisal procedures to bring down costs while maintaining quality.
The Hubei Environmental Pollution Control Fund (HEPCF)
8.    The purpose of establishing HEPCF is to strengthen the existing Hubei pollution
prevention program with a technically, institutionally and financially sustainable
mechanism. The Fund would primarily assist small-scale industrial enterprises to control
pollution through waste minimization measures, modifications or renovations to existing
plants to reduce waste outputs or to recycle waste generated during production. Industrial
upgrading projects designed to reduce the amount of pollutant discharge and to save natural
resources and energy, commercial waste recovery services and centralized treatment plants
would also be considered by the Fund. Some 300 small, polluting enterprises that have
been identified as contributing significantly to the provincial pollution load will receive
preferential access to HEPCF.
9.    Organization and Financing of HEPCF. HEPCF would be a self accounting
governrment entity. with initial capital equivalent of Y 87 million. The Bank Loan/ IDA
Credit would provide $5.0 million and HEPB would contribute an equivalent sum from
industrial pollution discharge fees (no less than Y 15.0 million for each of the first three
years). While the size of the Bank/IDA contribution has been kept small ($5 million), the
justification for Bank/IDA support for the fund derives from first, the advantages listed in
paragraphi 6(a) above, second, the elevation of flubei's existing pollution prevention
program into an internationally supported one, supplemented by focused training to further



- 138-                      ANNEX 12
improve environmental management, and third, the confidence building and institutional
strengthening expected to accrue to HEPB.
10.   HPG has designated HEPB to administer HEPCF. HPG would appoint a steering
committee which would oversee the preparation of an operational manual, setting out the
criteria for subloans processing and approvals. The Steering Committee would propose
policies for application for HEPCF funding, formulate rules and regulations for Fund
management, select a depository agency for the Fund and define the terms and conditions
for Fund loans. The HEPCF Steering Committee would also determine institutional
structure and staff composition of the HEPCF Management Office and approve its annual
work plan and budget.
11.   The Fund Management Office (FMO) would have up to 12 staff, to be recruited
over a three-year period, including specialists in environmental science and technology,
industrial processing, economics and finance, and administration. The director would be
appointed by the Steering Committee, and other staff would be locally recruited. The main
role of FMO would be in investment project planning, coordination between borrower and
agent bank, review of project feasibility and supervision of project implementation.
Financial appraisal will be handled within FMO, while technical appraisal will rely on
consultants for industry-specific expertise.
12.   Project Selection. Each application would have to be reviewed by the local
industrial bureau and planning commission, and approved by the concerned local
Environmental Protection Bureau, to ensure consistency with municipal environmental
planning. Based on the general project selection criteria mentioned above, a formula for
ranking would be developed to prioritize submitted project proposals.
Project Management Procedures
13.   HEPCF operating procedures would be drafted and would be approved by the
HEPCF Steering Committee. Fundamental project management procedures would be:
(a)   The Fund Management Office would issue HEPCF directives and
solicitations for project proposals to the sublevel provincial environmental
protection agencies and planning agencies;
(b)   With consent from the local industrial bureau, the enterprise would submit a
loan application to the environmental protection agency and planning
agency of its location;
(c)   The environmental protection agency and planning agency would review the
application for consistency with local development and environmental plans;
(d)   The enterprise would prepare a feasibility study report, including a financial
proposal for investment and an environmental impact assessment;



-139-                       ANNEX12
(e)   After the project has been appraised, FMO would submit the appraisal report
to the World Bank Group for no-objection, along with proposed loan
conditions. The Bank/IDA would provide ex-ante review of the first three
subloan projects and thereafter each subloan of over $300,000, with all other
subloans subject to ex-post review.
(f)   The HEPCFF Steering Committee would be responsible for the final
approval of subloan projects. After approval, FMO would confirm the loan
to the enterprise, any cofinancing agencies and the agent bank;
(g)   FMO would supervise the implementation of the project;
(h)   After satisfying itself as to the quality of a commissioned project, the
relevant bureau would issue a Certificate of Examination and Acceptance to
the enterprise;
(i)    The bureau in charge would submit examination and acceptance documents
for the project to FMO;
(j)   FMO  would separately assess whether the project meets the design
document requirements. If it does not, FMO would arrange for appropriate
departments to intervene, seeking necessary amendments to the project.
Project Appraisal
14.   For the technical appraisal of individual projects, the general criteria to be
considered are: (a) the project's impact on the ambient environment; (b) investment and
operating cost per unit pollution load reduction; (c) efforts made on pollution prevention;
(d) compliance with environmental regulations and standards; and (e) technical feasibilitv
and least-cost option.
15.   The economic appraisal for investment of the individual enterprise must show the
enterprise is economically viable.
16.   For the financial appraisal of the subproject, each enterprise would have to show
that it, as a whole, would be financially viable, including meeting a debt service ratio larger
than 1.4. For joint waste treatment facilities, a financing plan for the operation and
maintenance of the facility would be required.
Project Financing Procedures Between Agent Bank and Borrower
17.   The agent would be a bank acceptable to the World Bank. Once a subloan
application is approved by HEPCF, the agent would execute the loan according to
procedures described below:



-140-                      ANNEX 12
(a)   The agent would confirm the project financing plan with the borrower, in
accordance with the loan agreement signed between HEPCF and the
enterprise.
(b)   The project unit would open an account with the agent.
(c)   The agent would disburse funds upon receipt of a statement of expenditure,
in the form of invoice or letter of credit. Normally, disbursement would be
made once a month.
(d)   The agent would supervise the fund's use by the project unit. If project
funds are found to have been used for any purpose other than the approved
project, the agent would refuse further disbursement and notify the FMO.
(e)   The agent would report to HEPCF quarterly on the financial status of loans
made to borrowers. The agent would also report emerging issues and make
suggestions for improvement as needed.
(f)    At project completion the agent would finalize the financial accounting.
(g)   If projects fail to meet project date or design criteria, the agent shall notify
FMO.
(h)   The agent would assist HEPCF in the collection of loan principal, interest,
late payment penalties and fines.
18.   Disbursement would be made through the agent from the special account for
HEPCF in the Hubei Finance Bureau. The Fund would be audited annually, to include a
management letter.
Loans
19.   The HEPCF loan for any project would be limited to 100 percent of foreign
exchange costs, or 50 percent of total project costs (excluding land), whichever is higher.
Total project size would normally not exceed $1 million. Loan maturity would be three to
five years, with up to two years' grace. HEPCF would bear the subloan credit risk and the
enterprise the foreign exchange risk. The subloan interest rate would be no less than the
IBRD standard variable rate plus a spread of 1.5 percent, with a commitment charge of
0.75 percent. Repayments to HEPCF would be recycled for additional subprojects to the
extent funds are not needed for repayment of the World Bank loan.
HEPCF Project Pipeline
20.   A tentative subloan project pipeline has been prepared by HEPB (see HUEPO
Feasibility Study for details).



-141-                       ANNEX 12
Institutional Development and Equipment Needs
21.   The Fund Management Office personnel would undergo an extensive training
program.  Training courses would include economic and financial analysis, waste
management, waste reduction technology, particularly resource recovery/recycling and
clean technology. Training and equipment for HEPCF will be partially financed under
Package C of the technical assistance schedule.



-142 -                      ANNEX 13
ANNEX 13: FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ASSUMPTIONS
WASTEWATER AGENCIES
1.    Assumptions to the projections of the main financial statements of the Huangshi,
Wuhan and Xiangfan Wastewater agencies for the period 1995-2002 are provided below.
2.    Inflation and Exchange Rates. Yearly general domestic inflation rates used in the
projections are 14.0 percent for 1995, 10.6 percent in 1996, 8.5 percent in 1997, 7.0 percent
in 1998, 6.5 percent in 1999 and 6.2 percent in 2000-02. Foreign price increases are
estimated at 2.6 percent for each of years 1995-2002. The exchange rate used to convert
foreign costs to local currency, where applicable, was Y 8.4 per $1.0. It is assumed that
exchange rate adjustments would, on average, maintain purchasing power parity over the
projection period.
Income Statement
3.    Sales. Projections of sewerage quantities are based on "minimum demand" and
maximum capacity figures, and at the equivalent of 80 percent of water bills.
4.    Average Tariffs. The average prices in Yuan per m  in current terms are as
follows:
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Huangshi      0.18    0.20    0.22    0.24    0.26    0.31    0.32
Wuhan         0.18    0.20    0.22    0.24    0.26    0.28    0.30
Xiangfan      0.18    0.20    0.22    0.24    0.26    0.36    0.36
5.    Operating Costs. Salaries, wages and staff benefits are assumed to increase at the
rates given in para. 2 above. Personnel numbers are assumed to increase by 5 percent a year
after project flows commence. Energy, materials and other costs are assumed to increase in
line with general inflation also. For both existing assets and assets to be constructed under
the project, 1.2 percent of their value is assumed to be expended repairs and maintenance.
Composite depreciation rates have been used to depreciate assets on the basis of historical
cost. The following rates have been used: Huangshi-4.3 percent; Wuhan-4.5 percent;



-143 -                       ANNEX 13
and Xiangfan-3.2 percent The agencies have been exempted from paying business and
income taxes.
6.    Interest and Amortization Expenses. The proceeds of the IBRD loan/IDA credit
are assumed to be onlent to the Huangshi, Wuhan and Xiangfan wastewater agencies by
their respective Municipal Govemments at the IBRD's standard variable interest rate
(which was 7.07 percent per year at the time of negotiations), and 0.75 percent per year
commitment charge over 15 years, including 5 years of grace. Interest is paid annually.
Amortization of loans would be on the basis of equal payments of principal. The
wastewater agencies would bear the foreign exchange risk. The municipalities would
provide the local capital counterpart funds as capital grants.
Balance Sheet
7.    Inventories.  Inventories are assumed to be four months of chemicals and
maintenance materials, and have been projected to take into account general inflation as
well as any expanded levels of operations and construction.
8.    Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable are assumed to be 60 days of billings
from 1996.
9.    Bad Debts. Bad debts are assumed to be 0.5 percent of billings.
10.   Accounts Payable. Accounts payable are assumed to be two months of chemicals,
utilities and maintenance materials from 1996.
Source and Application of Funds
11.   Working Capital Needs. Working capital needs represent the excess, or otherwise,
of the current year's current assets (net of cash), less the excess of the previous year's
current assets (net of cash) over current liabilities.
12.   Change in Cash.  Change in cash (which includes short-term  investments)
calculates the balance sheet cash balance for the current year.



Incomc Statement
lluangshi U% asewaler Company
WVater revcnuc                               0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
Se%% cr re% cnuc                             0.00         0.00       13.82       16.05        18.45        21.03        23.81        29.31        32.00        35.53      39.31      43.37
Oililcr operatiing reveCIIII                  0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00          0.00      0.00       0.00
)I'I-RA IIN(iRI.VI:NlII                      0.011        00         13.82       16.05        18.45        21.03        23.81        29.31        32.00        35.53      39.31     43.37
Pers(oiniiel                                 1.57         1.79        1.97        2.14         2.29         2.44         2.97         3.57         4.24         4.99       5.83       6.77
Chemicals                                    0.01         0.01        0.01        0.02         0.02         0.02         0.02          0.03        0.03         0.03       0.04       0.04
tLiilifies                                   0.65         0.79        0.94        1.08          1.23         1.38        9.54         10.62       11.82        13.13      14.58      16.10
Maiantenaiice & Materials                    0.72         0.85        1.00        1.09         1.16         1.24         3.30         3.50         3.72         3.95       4.19       4.45
Taxes                                        0.00         0 00        0 00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
Other                                        0.52         0.59        0.70        0.75         0.81         0.86         0.91         0.97         1.03          1.09      1.16       1.23
Less: capilalihed                            0.00         0.00        0 00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
)I'IRA lIN(  I'X [IINS[ St IIIlIIAl.        3.46         403         4.63        5.08         5 51         5.94         16.75        18.69       20.84        23.20      25.81      28.60
Ol.'Rl-V[NlJl: I 1:SS l.XI'LNSI: s1J1fr     (3.46)       (4.03)       9.20       10.97        12.94         15.09        7.06         10.62       11.16        12.34      13.50      14.77
Losses on Receivables                        0.00         0.00        0.07        0.08         0.09         0.11         0.12         0.15         0.16         0.18       0.20       0.22
)l'14RAIIN(i .XI'I:NSr                      3.46         4.03        4.70        5.16         5.60         6.05         16.87        18.84       21.00        23.37      26.01      28.81
Prior period adjustments                     0.00         0.00        0.00
IN(OMlEi IFORI I)DlIRIE(IAIION              (3.46)       (4.03)       9.13       10.89        12.85        14.98         6.94        10.48        11.00        12.16      13.31      14.55
Ieprcci.tion                                 3 04         3 04t       3.04        3.04         3.04         3.04         5.67         8.42         8.56         8.56       8.56       8.56
)I'lRA IIN(; INCOMIE                      (6.50)       (7.07)       6 09        7.85         9.81         11.94         1.27        2.05         2.44         3.59       4.74       5.99
Inierest C\pcnl,e                            0.00         0 00        046         1.33         2.16         2.90         3.43         3.52         3.28         3.04       2.79       2.55
Commitmient recs                             o.o          0.00        0.29        0.20         0.11         0.05         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
Non-operating re% snIC                       3.47         3.95        0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
NETI INCO)MIE                               (3.0'4)      (3.12)       5.34        6.32         7.54         8.99         (2.16)       (1.47)      (0.84)        0.56       1.95       3.44



Sourcc and Applica lion of I-unds
lluangshi I' sst  ater Company
tille u RHN (in curmot pria)                                             _                  _ .                                                                    2 00
lcinme belorc dcpi-ci.intu               (346)       (4.03)      9 13      10.X9       1285        14.98        694         1048        11.00       12.16     13.31     14.55
Non-operating income                      3.47        3.95       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
IN I :RNAI. CASI (ilNl:RAll(ON            0.00       (0.08)      9.13      10.89       12.85       14.98        6.94        10.48       11.00       12.16     13.31     14.55
Amornization                              0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         3.43        3.43        3.43      3.43      3.43
Interestexpensc                           0.00        0.00       0.46       1.33        2.16        2.90        3.43         3.52        3.28        3.04      2.79      2.55
Commitnment fees                          0.00        0.00       0.29       0.20        0.11        0.05        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
lOTAL DEBT SERVICE                       0.00        0.00        0.75       1.53        2.27        2.95        3.43        6.95        6.70         6.46      6.22      5.98
Working capital needs                    (0.10)      (0.02)      2.25       0.27        0.29        0.30        (0.68)       0.62        0.11        0.22      0.22      0.24
CONTRIUllTION TO INVl:SIEN/T              0.10       (0.06)      6 13       9.09       10.2'9      11.73        4.19         2.91        4.18        5.48      6.87      834
Capital expenditurc                       0.00        9.37      23.27      28.18       30.63       21.95        8.83         6.01        0.21        0.00      0.00      0.00
Purchase(Salc) long temli asscts          0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
Capitalized interest                      0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
rOlAl. INVESTMENT COSTS                  0.00         9.37      2327       28.18       3063        21.95        8.83        6.01        0.21         0.00      00o       000
REQUIRED FINANCING                       (0.10)       9.43      17.14      19.09       20.34       10.22        .164         3.10       (3.97)      (5.48)    (687)    (834)
Loaits                                    0.00        0.00      13.06      11.27       12.25        8.78        6.02         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
I)cposits                                 0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
EIquily & reservcs contributions         0.00         9.37       3.32       7.75        7.98        1.29        0.00        4.35        0.00         0.00      0.00      0.00              >
TOiAI. FlINANCING                         0.00        9.37      16.37      19.03       20.23       10.07        6.02        4.35        0.00         0.00      0.00      0.00
CIIANGE IN CASII                          0.10       40.06)     (0.77)     (0.07)      (0.11)      (0.15)       1.38         1.25        3.97        548       6.87      8.34
-d



Balance Sheet
liuatuuhi . *,IteC. 3er ( onnip*nn
milgaMMD (Iat ttt.mt_                                                                                                            '
Iied asscts                                 70 69        70 69       70 69       70 69        70 69         70 69       192.92       198.93       199.14       199.14    199 14    199.14
Accuniulatcd dcprcciationi                   608          9.12        12.16       15.20        18.24        21.28        26.95        35.37        43.93        52.49      61.05      69.62
Net li\ed assets                            6461         61.57       58.53       55.49         5245         4941        165.97       163.56       155.21       14665      138.09     12952
Work in progress                             000          9,37       32.64       60.82        91.45        113.40         0.00         0.00         0.00         000        0.00       0.00
thcr long term as,cts                       0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00      0.00       0.00
l;irestricted cash                           0.10         0.04        (0.73)      (0.80)       (0.91)       (1.06)        0.33         1.58         5.55        1102       17.89      26.23
I )cposits                                   0 00         0.          0 00        0.00         0 00          0.00         0000         000          0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
Accounts reccci able                         000          000         2.30        267           3.07         3.51         3 97         4.89         5.33         5.92       6.55       7.23
Pmrosision fordoubtful reccisables           000          0 00        (007)       (015)        (0.24)       (0.35)       (047)        (061)        (0.77)       (0.95)     (1.15)     (1.36)
Insentory                                    013          016         034         0.37          0.39         0.42         1.11         1.18         1.25         1.33       141        1.50
Other curfent assets                         0 00         0.00        0 00        0 00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0 00         0.00         00         0 00       0.00
I'OTAI. ClIRR .NT ASSETS                     0 23         0 20        1 84        2 10         2 32         2 52          4 93         7 03        11 36        17.32     24 71      33 59
I)I Al.A.'iSI IS                            64114        71 14       93(02      11841        14622        16533         17091       17059         06657        16397     16279       163 11
\cwu   pa> able                              0 23         027         0 44        0.49         054          058           2.30        2.52          2.77         3.03       3.33      3.64
Long term debt. current                      0 00         0 00        0 00        0 00          0 00         0 00         3 43         3.43         3.43         3.43       3 43       3 43
hort term loans                             0 00         0.00        0 00        0.00         0 00         0 00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00       0 00       0.00
Other current liabilities                    0 00          0 00        0 00        0 00         0 00         0.00         0 00         0 00         0.00         0 00       0 00       0 00
IO [Al.. CURRINTI IAIIILIt  ES               023          0.27        044         0.49         054          0 58          5.72         5.95         6.19         6.46       6.75       706
I ong temi dcbt.loing tcriii                 000           0 OI       13 06      24 33         36 58        45 36        47 95        44.53        41.10        37.68      34.25      30.83
I)cPoNits                                    0 (O          O 00        0 00        0 00         0 00         0 00         0 00         0.00         0.00         0 00       0.00       0.00
I Oltl. HIAII II IllI S                      023          027        13 0        2482         37.12        4594          53.68       5047          4730         44.14     41 01      37.89
E:quity                                     64 61         70 86      79 52       93 59        109 11       119 39       117.23       120.11       119.28       119.83     121 79     125 22                   _
Contingcicics arid surphlius                  0o00         0 00 0o00               0 00 0o00                 0 00         0 00 0o00                 0 00         0.00 0o00             0 00
11 OFAL. EQUlIY ANI) LIABILITIES            64 84        71 14       93 01      118 41       146 22       165.33        170.91       170.59       166.57       163.97     162 79    163.11



Mniomiuring Indicators
Hwaagabi '% astewaflr Company
BASIS OF COST CALCULATIONS
Domestic Wastewaler (mil m3/yewr)         30 72       32 41      34 20       35 80       37 49        39 19       40 99        42 57       44 27       45 96      4778      4935
Industrial Wastesuater (mil m3 yce)       37 08       43 07      49 19       55 04       61 03       67 01        73 20        7t 99       84 97       90 %       97 21    102 93
Total Wastewater froin Recorded Soutce    67 80       75 48      83 39       90 54       98 52       106 20      114 19       121 56      129.24       136 92    144 99    152 22
IotalWasaeWaterrrcated(milm3 5ear)       9159         9948      10767       11527       12317       131 06       13934        14685       15475       16264      17100    17843
itliltrarnlm dnm3/lear)                   2378        2400       2428        2443        2464         2486        2514         2529        2551        25.72      2601      2615
It %SIS FOR RIVENUE/EII.MJ I      I   UIIJLAII IONS
\%aterConsumption(mil m3/)ear)                        9186       95 99      100 31      104 82       109 54      114 47       11962       125 00       130 63    136 51    142 65
Percentage Bulled for Wastewater Charge                0 0        0.8 s       0           0 8O         0 S0        0 0          0 S0        0 80         0 S0      0 80      0 S0
Wastiewater billed (mil m3/year)                      73 48      76 79       80 25       S3 86        87.63       91 57        95 70      I0000        104 50    109 20    114 12
Note this data from Xiangfan Watc Co
FIsnplo)ees!mnl m3 trcated                 2 18        2 01        1 86       1 74         162         1 53        1 51         1 50         1 50        149       149        1.50
FINANCIAL-all idieators currenl   milluon RNIB unless noted
Operatingre%ensue                          000         000       1382        1605         1845        2103        2381         2931        3200         3553      3931      4337
Operating  pense                           346         403        4.63        50S         551          5.94       1675         1869        2084         2320      2581      2860
Depreciation                               3 04        3 04       3 04        3 04        3 04         3 04        5 67         8 42        8 56         8 56      8 56      1 56
Operaint incoine                          (6 50)      (7 07)      6 09        7.85        9 S1        11 94        127          2 05        2 44         359       474       5 99
Net ncomc                                (304)       (312)       534         632         754          199        (2 16)       (247)       (084)         056       195       34
Ratle oleclun                              4 6%.       4 9%.     10 1-.      13 8-.       18 2%      23 5%         1 2-.        1 2%        1. 5.        2 4%      3 35%     4 5-5
asia                                     010          004       (073)       (080)       (091)       (1.06)        033          158         555         1102      1789      2623
Longretiuibonowunig                        000o        000       1306        1127         1225         878         602          0.00        000          000       000       000
kxerage cost per .u treated (including imfirdrationl
&lN + >Dep or Debtl S (DSR>=I 3)Current Prices      $0 07       S0 07      $0 07        $0 07       S0 08        $0 16       S0 19        S0 19       $0 20     $0 20      $0 21
I)    I >I)ep or Debt S (D)SR --I 3) Constanl Pnces  $0 06      $0 06       S0 05       S0 05        10 04       S0 10        S0 11       S0 10        S0 10     S0 10     So 09
A erage re enue per ml billed (tariff)
CurTentPrices                                         $0S00        1  SO        020      1022        S024         S026        $031         S032        S034      1036       S038
Constant Pnes                                         $ 000     S$ 14       S0 15        S0 15       $0 15        S0 16       S0 17        $0 17       S0 17     $0 17      S0 17
Note 1995 Scpt-Dec only
Personiel cost (per m3 ireated)           10 02       $1 12      S0 02       S0 02       10 02       S0 02        10 02        S0 02       S003        S0 03      10 03     S0 04
Pcrsoniel cost-constant (per m3 treated)  10 02       1002       1001        10  1f S0 01                        $s 01         S001       1S 001        S0 02     S0 02     S0 02
Working ratio                          IN/A         IN/A          034         0.32        030         029          0.71         064         066          0.66      066       066
peratingratio                         4N/A        NN'A           056        051          047         043          095         093         092          090       088       086
Dcbt service co,erage ratio             N/A        IN/A          12 16        7 12        566          5.08        2.02         1 51        164          I S8      2 14      244
ontnbunion to invesimennt              N/A           -065.      263%       32 2%        33.6%       534%         47J5-.      43.5%      19914%      #N/A       UN/A      IN/A
Contibution to insestment (3 5r a,ercge)              -0 6%      30 2%       33 2%       38 2%        57 3%       34 2%        5 1-%      201 7%                                               tt
Accounts recea able/A%erage monthly s        0            0          2           2           2           2         2.23         2 25        2 29        2.32       2 35      2 38               X
Capital expenditures (mil Yuan)            000         9 37      23 27       28 I2       30 63        2195         2 83         6 01        0 21         0 00      0000      0000
Capital expenduturescoosiant               000         2 22      18 46       20.60       2093         14 08        5.33         3 42        0.11        0 00       0 00      000               (
Pfice deflaor                              200         0 8S       0.79        0 73        0.68        064          0 60        0.57         0 54        0 50       0 47      0 45
Debt/(DebttEquity(ratio                    000         000        014         0.21        0.25        028          029         0.27         026         024        022       0.20
Cunenm ratio                               101         0 72       4 17        4 28        4 33         4 32        0 86         1 IS        I 83         2 68      3 66      4 76



Incomt Sitstement
Wuhan %N a%ic twc, ( ,mpany
Wa' t(cr re% nuc                          0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00      000       000
Sc%%cr r%csnuc                            0.00         0.00     127.09     146.89       167.98      190.41      214.23      239.49       266.23      294.52    324.39    355.92
Other operating revcnue                   0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00
OPITRAAIIN( IRlVl'i NIl                    0.00        0.0/)    127.09      146.89      167.98      190.41      214.23       239.49      266.23      294.52    324.39    355.92
Personnel                                 000         12.68      14.03      1802         22.89       28.96       32.94        36.62       40.73       45.29     50.36     56.00
'hemicals                                0.00        0.72        0.83       0.93         1.03        1.14       17.82       19.58       21.51        23.61     25.91     28.42
1 Itilities                               0.00         9.47      10.85      12.19        13.51       14.89       38.58       42.38        46.54       51.09     56.07     61.51
Niaintenance & Materials                  0.00         4.73       5.42       5.88         6.29        6.70       21.74       23.08        24.51       26.03     27.65     29.36
l ,xes                                    0 00         0.00       0.00       0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00      0.00      0.
Other                                     0.00         0.28       0.32       0.34         0.37        0.39        0.42         0.44        0.47        0.50      0.53      0.56
Less: Cipittliacd                         0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00         0.00        000         0 00         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
(I'I RA IN(i lXlINSI. St ill )AIO      0.A0        27.88      31 44      37.3 7       44 09       52.08      III 49       122 11      133.76      1 46 52    16051    175.85
()I' RVI:NUI i.LSS EXITINSI SUIIl         0.00       (27.88)     95.65     109.52       123.90      138.34      102.75       117.38      132.47      147.99    163.88    180.08
Losses on Reccivables                     0.00         0.00       0.64       0.73         0.84        0.95        1.07         1.20        1.33        1.47      1.62       1.78
)I'I RAl IN(i .XI'INSi:                   (1.01       27.88      32.017     38.10        44.93       53.0)3     112 56       123.31      135.09      147.99    162.13    177.63
Prior period adjustmcnts                  0.00         0.00       0.00
IN(ONItBEFOREI D)EITRICIA1 [ON            0.(0       (27.88)     9502      108.79       123.06      137.39      101.68       116.18      131.14      146.52    162.26    178.30
D)eprcciation                             0.00        15.33      15.33      15.33        15.33       15.33       45.29       75.25        75.25       75.25     75.25     75.25
()1' RA I IN( INC(ONI.                     0.0)(     (43.22)     79.68      93.46       107.72      122.05       56.38        40 93       55.89       71.27     87.01    103.05
Iintrcm expc\IsC                          0.00         0.00       3.8)      12.75        2592        34.90       36.81       36.50        33.99       31.47     2895      26.43
(omniiment liec                            0.00        0.00       3.19       2.10         040         0.20        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
Non-opcratin6 rce cnLc                    0 00         0 00       000 0o00                0 00        0 00        0 00         0.00       0o00         0 00      0 00      0.00
Nll IN( ONII                              0.00       (43 22)     72.69      7861         81.40       86.95       19.57         4.43       21.91       39.80     58.06     76.61



SourccA hnd  pillicatiion of I unds
Wuhan %Vastevatcr Company
million RMB (in current prices)         .j4                     i;  .j -t I            1:         1t9          2006   ,:  01           2062        2063 "    2     W4 i  .2105
InIuIli hclitre dcpreciatcimi            0)3       (27.88)     95.02      108 79      123 06      137 39      101.6N      116.18      131.14      146.52    162 26    178 30
Non-operating income                     0.00        0.00       0 00       0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
INIILRNAI CASll(GNl:RATION               0.00       (27.88)    9'502      108.79      123.06      137.39      101.68      116.18      131.14      146.52    162.26    178.30
Amorli,;aiwn                             0.0(1        0.00      0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00        0.0)       35.51       35.51       35.51     35.51     35.51
Intercst expense                         0.00        0.00       3880       12.75       25.92       34.90       36.81       36.50       33.99       31.47     28.95     26.43
Commitment fccs                          0.00        0.00        3.19       2.10       0.40         0.20        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
rOTAl. DEBT SCRVICE                      0.00        0.00       6.9')     14.85       26.33       35.11       36.81       72.01        69.49       66.97     64.46     61.94
Working capital needs                    0.00         1.82      17.91       2.43       2.54         2.64        4.23        2.89        2.99        3.08      3.18      3.27
(ONTRIIH iTION  TO INVESl NIMNr          0.((       (29.70)    70 12      91.51       94.19        99.64       60.63       41 28       58.6t,      76.47     94.63    113.09
Capital expendiLirc                      0.00       119.52     148.40    363.22      565.88        67.48       67.01        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
Purchase(SaIe) long termi asels          0.0        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
Capitalized interest                     0.00         0.00      0.00       0.00        0.00         0.00        0 00        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
I(l'Al. INVESlMl:NilCOSIS                0.00      119.52     148 41     36322       565.88       6748        6701         0.00        0.00        0()0       000)      000
REQUIRED FINANCING                       0.00       149-22     78.28     271.71      471.69       (32.16)       6.38      (41.28)     (58.66)     (76 47)   (94.63)  (lI )09)
loans                                    0.()0       0.00      107 17     145.29     226.35       26.9)9       26.80        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
I)DpositS                                0.00        0.00       OM         0.0         0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
IquiI5 & re,crvc. contributions          0.()0      119.52      ().011   12)9.26     245.26        0.t1o       0.(0        0.00         0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
jro(jl. FINANCING                        0.00      119.52     107.17     274.54      471.61       26.99       26.80        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
CllANGE IN CASI                           000 I29 70)          288)         'S         (O.8)       5') I;      20 42       41 28       5866        76f47     94 6-    113.09



Balce Shctr
Whbsat W9Ct,.ter i    M""'nr
Iixed assets                           340.72      340 72     340.72     340.72      340.72      340.72    1.672 23    1,672.23    1,672.23    1,672.23   1,672.23  1,672.23
Accumulated depreciation                 0.00       15.33      3066       46.00       61.33       76.66      121.95      197.20     272.45      347.70    422.95    498.20
Net fixed assets                      340 716      325.38     310.05     29472       279.39      264.05     1,550.27   1,475.02    1,39977     1,324.52  1,249.27  1,174.02
Work inprngress                          0.0(      119.52     267.92     631.14     1.197.02    1,264.50       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00     0.00      0.00
Other long nern aswts                    0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00     0.00
lInrcstrictedcash                        0.00      (29.70)      (0.82)     2.02        1.94       61.09       81.52      122.79      181.46      257.92    352.55    465.64
Deposits                                 0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00     0.00
Accountsreceivable                       0.00        0.00      21 18      24.48       28.00       31.74       35.71       39.91       44.37       49.09     54.07    59.32
Pro%ision fordoubtful rccciables         000         000        (064)     (1.37)      (2.21)      (3.16)      (423)       (543)       (6.76)      (8.23)    (9.86)   (11.64)
Imnentory                                0.00        1.82       2.08       2.27        2.44        2.61       13.19       14.22       15.34       16.55     17.85     19.26
Other current assets                     0 00        0.00       0 00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00     0.00
IOTAl. ClRRENT ASSETS                    0.00      (27 88)     21 81      2740        30 17       92.28      126 17      171.50     23441       315.32    41461    532.58
lOTAl. ASSElS                          34072       41702      599.78     95326     1,506.57    1.62083     1.676.45    1.64652     1.634.18    1.63985   1.66389   1,706.61               O
LOXcu3pII) pahle                        01)0(        0(0        2 90(      322         3.53        3.85       13.09       14.25       15.51       16.87     18.36    19.97
Long term dcbt, cureit                   0 00        0.00       000        0.00        0.00        0 00       35.51       35.51       35.51       35.51     35.51    35.51
Shor te(nn loans                         0 00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0 00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00     0.00
Other current liabilities                000         0 00        .0        0.00        0 00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0 00      0.00     00
I()IAI. CIRKRINI IlAIIIIllILS            000         0.0)       2.9(1      3.22        3.53        3.85      48.60        4975       51.01       5238      53.87     5548
I ong tmcn dcht.long teni,               00(0        000       107.17    252.46      478.81      505S80      497.10      461.59      426.08     390.58    355.07    319.56
Dcposits                                 0 00        0.00       0 00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00     0.00      0 00
I)lAI I.IABILH.IIEIS                     0.00        0.00     11007      25568       482.34      509.65      54570      511.35      477.10      442.96    408.93    37504
Eqiiit)                                340.72      417.02     489.71     697.58     1,024.23    1,111.18    1,130.75   1,135.18    1,157.09    1,19689   1,254.95  !,331.56               -
Contingcncics and surpluscs              0.00        0 00       0 00       0 00        0.00        0 00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00
TOTAL EQUITY AND lIABILITIES           34072       417.02     59978      953.26     1,506.57    1,620.83    1.676.45   1,646.52    1,634.18    1,63985   1,663.89  1,706.61



Mlonitoring Indicators
Wuham Wastewater Company
BASIS OF COST CALCtlLATIONS
Domcstic Wastesatcr (mlt m3/year)          000       320 84     33782       355 17      372 90       391 02      409 53      428 44       447 76       467 49    487 64    508 22
Industral Wastewatrc (mit m3/year)        0 00       357 50     368 23      379 27      390 65      402 37       414 44      426 87       439 68       452 87    466 46    480 45
Total Wastewater fromn Recorded Source     0 00      678 34     706 04      734 44      763 55       793 39      82397       855 31       887 44       920 36    954 10    988 67
Total Waste Water treated (mil m3year)     000       78009      811 95      84461       87808        91240       94757       98361       1.02055     1.05841   109721   1,1369S
InfilitaTion (md1 .1/,ear)                0 00       101 75     105 91      110 17      114 53       119 01      123 60       128 30      133 12       138 05    143 11    148 30
BASIS FOR RES ENUL/BILLINsG E (   (tIlATIONS
%atcerConsumption(milm3/lear)                        84792      88255       91805       95444       99174       102996       106914      110930       115045   119262    123584
Perceutage Billed for Wastevatet Charge                0 80       0 S0        0 80        0 S0         0 80        0 80         0 80        0 80         0 80      0 80      0 80
Wastcwatet btlled (milnm3'>car)                      67834      70604       73444       76355        79339       82397       85531        88744       92036    954 10    98867
Emplo5ees mil m treaied                                0 77       074         0 85        0 98         114         118          1 19        1.20         122       124        125
FINANCIAI-aII indicators curret   million RMB unless noted
Operatingrevenue                           000         0.00     12709       14689       16798        19041       21423        23949       26623        29452    32439    35592
Operatingexpense                           000        2788       3144        3737        4409         5208       11149        12211       13376        14652     16051      17585
Depeeccation                               000        1533        1533       1533        1533         1533        4529         7525        7525         7525      7525      7525
Operaling income                           000       (43 221     7968        9346       10772        12205        5638         4093        5589         71 27     8701     10305
Netincome                                 000        (4322)      7269        7861        8140         8695        1957          443        2191        3980       5806      7661!
Rate ofretum                               00%       *130%       25 1%       309%O       37.5%        449/        622%         2.7%        399o         52-o      68       85%
Cash                                       000       (2970)       (082)       202         1.94        61.09       8152        122.79      18146        25792    35255    46564
Longternnborowing                          000         000      107 17      14529       22635         2699        2680          000         000          000       000       0.00
Aserage cost per m3 treated (including infiltration)
O&NI + Dep or Debi S (DSR>=I 3) Cunent Pnces          S006      S0 06       S0 07       S0 09        S011        $0 17        $0 22       S0 22        S0 22     $0 22     $0 23
O&M + >Dep or Debh S (DSR>=I 3) Constant Pnces        S0 05      S0 05       S0 05       S0 06        $0 06       S0 10        S0 11       S011         $0 11     $0 10     S0 10
Average resenut per m3 billed (tariff)
Current Pnces                                        S000        $0 18      S0 20        S0 22       S0 24        $0 26       $0 28        S0 30       S0 32     S0 34      S0 36
ConstantPrices                                       S000        S0 14      S0 15        $0 15       $0 15        S0 16       S0 16        S0 16       $0 16     $0 16      S0 16
Note 1995 Sept-Dec only
)critiimcl co,t (clc, in treaeid)                     SO 02      S0 02       $0 02       S0 03        $0 03       $0 03       Sl 04        $0 04       S0 04      So 05     S0 05
Personnel cost-constant (per m3 tteated)              S0 01      S0 01       S0 02       S0 02        S0 02       S0 02       S0 02        $0 02       S0 02      S0 02     S0 02
Workingratio                           #N/A        MN/A            025        026         027          028         053          051         051         050        050       050
Operating rato                         #N/A         MN/A          0 37        0 36        0 36         0 36        0 74        0 83         0 79         0 76      0 73      0 71
Dcbl senrice cosergc ratio            MN/A         MN/A          1359        733         467          391         276          161         1 89         2 19      2 52      2 88                       Z
Coninbution to investment              #N/A          -24 9      472%        25 2%.      1666%       1477%        905      ON/A         MN/A        rN'A         N/A      #N/A
Contnbution to inoestment (3 yt a,etagc)             -33 3%      33 3%       25 5%       28 4%       42 7%       135 2%                                                                                m
Accounts receisable/Average monthly s        0           0           2          2            2           2         224         227          2 30        2 34       2 36      2 39
Capital expenditwes (tnil Yuan)            0 00      119 52     148 40      363 22      565 88        67 48       67 01        0 00         0 00        0 00       0 00      0 00
Capioal ependitiies-constant               000       10484      11770       26551       35659         4329        4048         000          000         000        000       00 D
Pnce deflator                              300         0 88       0 79        0 73        0 68        0 64         0 60        0 57         0 54        0 50      0 47       0 45
Debu(Debt+Equity)ratio                    000          000        018         027         032         031          031         029          027         025       022        019
Cunent rato                            ON 9        ON 4           7 52        8 50        8 54        23 95        2 60        3 45         4 60        6 02       7 70      9 60



Source and Application of F unds
Xiangfan WasteAater Company
ntmillsRb (aRMB(b'cik*)%Rmat_1Pw_
Income before depreciation               (4.04)      (4.93)     21.20      24.53       27.96       31.65        19.01       36.76       37.50       37.65     41.92     46.56
Non-optrating income                      4.04        3.07       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
INTLRNAL CASH GENERATION                 (0.00)      (1.86)     21.20      24.53       27.96       31.65        19.01       36.76       37.50       37.65     41.92     46.56
Amortization                              0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00       13.39       13.39       13.39      13.39     13.39
Interest expense                          0.00        0.00       2.70       8.58       12.44        13.68       14.23       13.76       12.81       11.86      10.91     9.97
Commitment fees                           0.00        0.00       0.93       0.26        0.12        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
FOYAL. DEBT SERVICE                      0.00        0.00        3.64       8.84       12.56       13.68       14.23       27.15        26.20       25.25     24.30     23.35
Working capital needs                     0.00        0.04       4.13       0.50        0.53        0.56        (0.23)       2.83       (0.02)      (0.12)     0.54      0.58
CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTMENT               (0.00)      (1.90)     13.43      15.19       14.87        17.41        5.02        6.78       11.32       12.53      17.07    22.63
Capital expenditure                       0.00       11.22     179.30     223.71       48.76       38.44         0.56        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
I'urchase(Sale) long term assets         0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
Capitalized interest                      0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
I(oAl INVESTMENTCOSTS                    0.00        11.22     179.30     223.71       4876        38.44        0.56        0.00         0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
RLQ('IlRED FINANCING                      0.00       13.12     1 65.87    208.52       33.89       2 1.03       (4.46)      (6.78)     (11.32)     (12.53)   (17.07)   (22.63)
Loans                                    0.00         0.00      76.21      89.48       19.50       15.38        0.22         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.0)      0.00
D)eposits                                0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
I.quit% & reserves contributions         0.00        11.22      87.91     118.11       12.70        3.74        0.00         0.00        0.00        0. 0o     0.00      0.00
I ()1 \A FINANCING                       00()       11 22      164 12    20)7 99       32.2        19 1        (122        0.0(1        0.()()     0.())      0.00      ()0.
(ItAN(iF IN CASII                        (0.00)      (1.90)     (1.75)     (0.93)      (1.68)       (1.91)      4.68         6.78       1132        12.53     17.07     22.63               -



Income Statement
Xiangfan  . |Isle" h:ir (Compaiiv
"I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .jj                                                                                                       2005
\Water relenue                              0 00        0 00        0 00      000 000 000 000                                000 000                  0 00 000            0 00
Sevoerre%enue                               000         0.00       2709       3145         36 15        4121        46.66        6703         70.56        73.72     81.32      8945
Other operating revenue                     0.00        0.00        0 00       0.00         0 00         0 00         0 00        0.00         0 00         0 00      0 00       0.00
()IPlRA I IN(i RI VINIII                    00)()       000        27 0')     31 45        36 15        41 21       4666         67.03        70 56        73 72     81 32      89.45
Personnel                                   0.94        1.07        1.18        1.58        2.22         2 92        4.49         4 77         5 06         5 38      5.71       6.06
(Chernicals                                 0.00        0.00        0.00       0 00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00      0 00       0 00
Iltilitles                                  2.31        2.82        3.33       3.84         4.36         4.91        15 87       17.68        19.69        21.88     24 32      26.85
Mainteinance & Materials                    0.80        1.04        1.24        1.34        1.44         1.53        7.05         7.49         7 95         8.44      8.97       9.52
Faxes                                      0 00         0.00        0 00       0.00         0.00         0 00        0 (1         0.00         0 00        0.00       0.00      0.00
Other                                       0.00        0.00        0.00       0 00         0.00         0 00         0.00        0.00         0 0(         0 00      0 00       0.00
Less capitalized                            0.00        0.00        0.00       0 00         0 00         0.00        0 00         0 00         0 00         0 00      0 00       0.00
OPFRAI INC EXPENSE SUBFOIAl,               404         493         5.75       6.76         8.01         936         2741        29.93        3270         35 70     3900       42.44
OP REVENUE LESS EXP'ENSE SUIiT             (4.04)      (4 93)      21 33      24.69        28 14        31 86        19.25       37.09        37 85        38.02     42 32      47 01
Iosses on Recei% ables                      000         0.00        0.14       0 16         0.18         021          023         0.34         035          037       0.41       0.45
OPIRAJING EXPENSE                           404         4.93        5.89       692          8 19         956        27.6.4       3027         33l)6        36 (7     39401    4289
Prior period adjustments                    0 00        0.00        0 00
IN( ONlL Bt:tFORF DIAl'REC IA [ION         (4 0)4)     (4 93)      21 2(1     24 53        27 96        31 65       19.1)1       36.7(i       37 5))       37 65     41 92     46 56
D)epreCLitiion                              238         2.38        238        238          2.38         238         10(4(       18.44        1R45         I845      1845       1845
)I'i R.N HN(i INC(()Nl                    (6 42)      (7.31)      18 82      22 15        25 58        29 27         8.61        18 3'       19 0(        19.21     23 47      28 12
litercst e\pensc                            0(iH)        . 0(1      2 70       8 58        12 44        13 61       14.23        13 7         12.81        11 So     1091l      9 97
( olimiiltnient fee,                       (11)         0 00        0 93       0.26         0.12'        0 00        0 0)         0 (0         0 00        1) 0))     0.0)      0 00
on-ouperating re\cnue                       4 04        3 07        0 0))      0 (1)        0 1))        0 (0(       0 W1)        0        I))   0      IJt   0         oil  los  ( 00
LI.I INCOMI                                1238)       (424)       is IS       I'              l        I            (  2)        4 St2                    7 -I      II         I is



.2lau2ce Sheet
Xi?nta2n W1tt1ewter Company
umiU  R!'I jimeurratt :          it p,jc.n)}                           ;I        t _2                                a- z        X    t    *          -:~ .s-   2s4*. j  294)5
I i\ed assets                            74 43        74 43      74.43      74 43       74.43       74.43       575 86      576.42      576.42      576 42    576.42    576.42
\xcumulated dpreciation                   4 76        7 15       9.53      11.91        14.29       16.67       2708        45.51       63.96       82.40    10085    119.30
Netlficdassets                           6967        6728       6490       6252         6014        57.76      548.78      530.91      512.46      49402    475.57    457.12
t% ork in pro8rchs                       0t00        1122      190 52     414.23      46299        501.43        056         (.00        0.00        0.00      (.00      0.00
)thcr long termn assets                   0 00        0.00       0 00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0 00        0 00        0.00         0.00      0.00      0.00
I nirestriutcd cash                      (0.00)      (1.90)      (365)      (4.58)      (6.27)      (8.17)      (3.49)       3.29       14.61       27.14    44.21      66.85
D)eposits                                 0.00        0.00       0.00       0.00         0.00        0.00        0 00        0.00        0.00         0.00      0.00      0.00
\ccountsrecciable                        000         000        451        5.24        6.03        6.87         778        11.17       11.76       12.29     13.55     14.91
Ir'msision fordoubtful rcc.abahes         0.00        0.00       000       (0.16)       (0.34)      (0.54)      (0.78)      (1.11)      (1.47)       (1.83)    (2.24)    (2.69)
In cntory                                 058         076        0.41       0.45         0.48        0.51        2.35        2.50        2.65         2.81      2.99      3.17
hhcr currem.a assets                     0 00        0 00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0 00        0.00        0.00         0.00      0.00      0.00
I(OTAL CURRENT ASSETS                     0 57       ( 15)       1 28       0.95       (0. 10)      (1.34)       5 86       15.84       27 56       40.41     58.52     82.24
I( Al. ASSETS                            70 24       7736      25670      477.70      523.03      557.85       55520       546 75      540.02      534.42    53409    539.37
\ccounts pjaable                          058         072        076        0.86        0.97         1.07        3.82        4.19        4.61        5.05      5.55      6.06
long tcrm debt. cufrfil                   0.00        0.00       0.00        000         000         0.00       13.39        13.39       13.39       13.39     13.39     13.39
Short term loans                          0.00        0.00        0.00       0 00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00
Other current liabilitics                 0 00        0 00        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00         0.00      0.00      0.00
I(AI CUliRRlNI I IXllIlTIII-S            t)58X        072       017         086          0 97        1.07       17 21       1758        17.99        IX44      IS 93     19.45
I ong icrm dchi lIong tcii                00(         0 ()t      7621      16569       185.2)      200.57      18741       174.02       160.64      147.25    133.86    120.48
I )CpositN                                0 00        0 00        0.00       0.00        0 00        0 00        0.00        0.00        0 00         0 00      0.00      0.00
IOTAI. I IABII.I ILIS                     0 58        0 72      76 97     166 56       186 16      201.65      204 62      191 60      178.63      165 69    152 8H    139 93
I uult                                   6967        7664       17973      311 15      33687       35620       35059       355.15      361.39      368.73    381.29    399.44
(ontingcncics and surpluscs               0 00        0 00        0 00       0 00        0 00        0 00        0 00        0 00        0.00        0 00      0.00      0.00
II OTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES            70 24       77 36     256 70     477.70       523.03      55785       555 20      54675       54002       53442    534.09    539.37



Monitoring Indicators
Xiang ian Wastewater Company
_ S  _       ! i           _         n         _        -~~~~~~-,~as&a                LZK &~$ ;i Jw ; 3 j S40*.%  -<. 
BASIS OF COST CALCULATIONS
Dnm1stm c Wastewater (mil m3/yea)        3533        3007       12 53     4J95         4949        5303        5673        60 12       6366        6720      7093      7428
I ,dustiiaI \\ AtCI Ate(rMl mi')Cat)    109 28     120 27      13161     142 24       153 23      164 21      175 68      186 19      197 17      208 16    219 75    230 13
Fatal \Vac..trtr from Rceoided SoUrces  14461      159 14     174 14     383 19      20272       21725        23241      24630        26083       27536    29068    30441
Total %% asit Water tieated (mil m3/year)  17682    19243      20561      22364       23925       25486       27121       28607       30168       33179    33381    34850
Infiltration (mil m/year)               3221        3329        3446       3545        3653        3761        3880        3977        4085        4193      43 13     4409
BASIS FOR RES'ENUJE/BILLING CALCULATIONS
agerCtonsumpion (mil m3/year)                     100          8 ISS 10  1% 56      205 41      214 65      224 31      234 41      244 %       255 98    267 50    279 53
Perenuage Bdied ftr Warwasc Clwge                    0 S0        0 80       0 S0        0 30        0 80        0.80        0 S0        0 80        0 S0      0 80      0 S0
Wastewater billed (ml m3/y,co)                      14400      15048      15725       36433       171.72      17945       18753        19596      20478    21400    22363
Note this data from Xiangfan Waler Co
Lmployccsmilm3 treated                   068         062        058        067          084         098         Is          3 12         106         1 01     096       092
FINANCIAL-all indicatrs current   million PM.B unless noted
Op agin reanue                           000        0o00        2709       3145        36.15       4121        4666        67.03       7056        7372      83 32     8945
Opegaim expense                          4 04        4 93        5.75       6.76        8.01        936        27 41       2993        32 70       35 70     39 00     42 44
D eciation                               2.38        233         2.38       2.38        2.38        238        1040        38.44       1845         3845      1845      13845
Oplatlng income                          (642)       (7 31)    I3 82       22 15       25 58       29 27        8.61       18 32        19 06       19 21    23 47      28 12
Ncincome                                 (238)       (424)      15.18      1331        1302        1559        (562)        456         624         734      1236       38 15
Rak ofrturo                              -34%        -625       28.5%      348V.       417/.       497/.        2.S/        34%         37/.        38%       48r/.      6.0,.                      LA
C sb                                    (000)        (1 90)     (3 65)     (4 58)      (6.27)      (8.17)      (3 49)       3 29       14 61       27 14     44.21     66 85                         1
Lengirfmboffowing                        000         000        7621      8948         1950        1538         0.22        000         000         000       000       000
Average cast per m.3 treated (including infiltration)
MN+I>DepnorDebtS.(DSR-1 3)CurrenstPrices            S004        S005       $008        $0.10       S011        $017        1023        1022        $0.22     $021      S021
OkM + >Dep or Det4  (DSFt>= I 3) Constant Prces     S0 03       $0 04      $0 05       $0 06       $0 06       S0 09       S0 11       $0.311      S00       S0 09    S$ 08
Average reenue per us3 billed (tariff)
CurTenemPnces                                       S000       S018       $020        $022        S024        $026         S036        S036        $036      S038      $040
Consl n Pnces                                       S0 00      S0 14      S0 15       S0.15        S0 15      $0 16        S0 20       S0 19       S0 IS      038 IS   S0 IS
Noic 1995 Sept-Dec only
Personnel costl(per m3 trcated)         1001        S001       S003       S001         S001        S01         $002        S002        S002        S002      S002      S002
Pcrsaenel cost-ctsoant (prn m3 ilttlcd)  S0 03      S0      00  S09 0     $003         $003 1                  S0          $0 S0 0101  S003        $0        S0        $1 So 01
W\oiiglatio                         aN/A        ON/A          022        022          023         0.23        059         045         047         049       048       048
tiperang ratio                        aN/A        xN/A           031       030          029         029         082         073         073         074       071       069
Debt service coserage ratio           MN/A        ON/A           583       278          223         231         1.34        1 35        143         1 49      1 72       1 99                       Z
Contribution io investiment           ON/A          -169%.       755i      68%         305Y.       453%       8963%     ON'/A        ON/A        aN/A       aN/A      ON/A
Contribution to mnvestment (3 yr a,erage)            -3 0.     9 r/.      10 1%       14 3%       59 5%       38 6%
Accounts receivablelAveage monthly sl       0           0       2 00       2 06         2 11        2 16        2 20        2 20        2 25        2 30      2 33      2 36
Capital expenditures (mil Yuan)          0 00       11 22      179 30    223 71        48 76       38 44        0 56        0 00        000         0 00      0 00      0 00                        _
Capital expendinres-constaunt            000         984       14221      16353       3331         2466         034         000         000         000       000       000
Pncc deflator                             300        038        079        073         068          064         060         057         054         050       047       045
Dcbt/(Deb1.Fqurt))ratio                  0000        090        030        035         035          0.36        035         033 3       033         029       026       023
Cuneot ratio                              300      ( 59)        168        I 10       (0 10)      (3 25)       034         090         1 53        2 19      309       4 23



-156-                       ANNEX 14
ANNEX 14: ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
CONSIDERATIONS
A. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
1.    The Bank Group highlighted enhancing environmental protection and alleviating
infrastructure bottlenecks as two of the four areas of concentration under the China Country
A\ssistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board in June 1995. The Bank Group's close
collaboration witlh the Chinese government covers both the regulatory and service provision
aspects of urban environmental maniagement. The China. Environmental Strategy Paper
sector study led to an Environmental 'Technical Assistance Project that assists NEPA in its
ef'forts to find more efficient regulatory methods, improve staff capabilities, and bolster
enivironimental monitoring. In addition to national regulatory assistance, the Bank Group is
currently involved in tive urban environmental projects in eight cities, which incorporate
policy, financing and organizational strategies for improved environmental regulation and
service delivery at the provincial and municipal levels. Another four ongoing investment
projects involving 12 cities include related issues such as municipal water supply and
sanitation needs. The initial round of projects focused on China's largest cities-Shanghai.
Beijing, and Tianjin-and those located primarily in the wealthier northeast and coastal
provinces. Environmental pressures remain very high in those areas and cooperation will
continue, as with the recently appraised Second Shanghai Sewerage Project and the
Shiandong Environmenit Project IIow being prepared. However, the proposed Hubei Urban
Environmental l'roject marks a shift in geographic focus, moving toward inland and poorer
areas. I lubei, a mieedium-income province, is located in central China, wvhile projects now
hbing prepared in thle very poor Yunnan and Guangxi provinces will further test the
t'easibility of policy and institutional solutions.
2.   3Ban;kwide municipal management sector work (Urban Service Delivery: Finding
the Right Incentives) emphasizes the need to properly assign functional responsibilities
and link revenue to expenditures.  In China's case, environmental services are
appropriately provided at the municipal level, where a high percentage of government
reventue is also captured. China: Urhan Environmental .Service Management concludes
that the major failing in environmental services has been dependence on municipal
budget transfers to fund services, while greater reliance on user charges would be
af'fordable, induce resource conservation, and create a more dependable income stream.
For that reason, increasing tariffs has been a major focal point of the policy dialogue in
this project. This responds, too, to a major finding in the OED review of Bank water and
sanitation projects (Water Supply and Sanitation Projects: The Bank Experience 1967-
1'089), wherein physical performance was generally good, but sustaining financial



-157-                       ANNEX 14
viability and overall sectoral development was less successful. Adequate sector revenues
have been so crucial to successful operation of these investments that the Bank now sees the
needed tariff structures as the major sign of municipal commitment and therefore asks for
initial adjustments to be made during project processing. The proposed project follows this
model.
3.    This project thus responds to Bank sector work and sector experience, and CAS
objectives, first through an improved regulatory environment, reduction of current pollution
loads, and protection of critical water and land resources and second through
commercialization of operating agencies, and improved tariff policy and operating
techniques. The Bank's strategy flows from and supports China's Environmental Action
Plan and Agenda 21, which provide the basis for joint Government and Bank action in the
environmental sector, especially in regard to the urban environment. Finally, the provincial
focus recognizes the effective decentralization of regulatory and investment authority in
China, and draws on local political power and commitment to induce wider use of the
solutions demonstrated under the project.
4.    The project supports provincial efforts to substantially reduce pollution within the
province, especially within densely populated urban areas, by providing new models for the
efficient organization and financing of urban environmental services and financing for
wastewater and solid waste handing and treatment, and for industrial pollution control.
Specifically, the project would support:
(a)   the more aggressive use of user fees to shift the burden of pollution
abatement to the polluter and induce waste minimization and new
organizational forms for wastewater providers, to allow improved
management tools and to help minimize the cost of abatement;
(b)   the provincial and municipal EPBs in their efforts to implement more
effective regulatory instruments;
(c)   expansion of sewerage services, hence a reduction in water pollution, within
the boundaries of Wuhan, Xiangfan, and Huangshi, thus protecting the
urban environment and the health of their people;
(d)   the first municipal solid waste landfills meeting national standards in the
cities of Xiangfan and Yichang, and major capacity expansion in Huangshi
and Wuhan, with consequent protection of local land and water resources
and flaring of landfill methane to reduce greenhouse gas emissions; and
(e)   a line of credit to allow abatement of important industrial point sources of
pollution affecting large urban populations and a pollution control revolving
fund to provide a model for such funds.



-158-                         ANNEX 14
B. ECONONlic ANALYSIS
5.    From  an economics perspective, project formulation-within the constraint of
developing an urban environment project-presented the major analytical challenge of
allocating investment support across a potentially wide array of cities and sectors. Ideally,
that allocation would maximize net present value, fully incorporating environmental
externalities, within the project area. Yet, current methodologies do not allow quick or
inexpensive, yet high confidence. estimates of the impact of interventions across such a
broad choice set. Instead, a different macro allocation criterion was used, based on the fact
that what was known with high confidence was that current policy and institutional
structures needed substantial change if sustainable environmental protection was to be
aclieved.  Policy problems included urbani environmental services priced too low to
discourage waste generation or provide the financing needed to build, maintain, and operate
services suclh as wastewater collection and treatment. Government bureaus providing the
services lacked the financial tools to develop effective tariff strategies or the operating
autonomny needed to encourage managerial iimovation. Gaps in environmental regulation
Vwcr: allso apparent. Therefore, choices about participating sectors and cities were made
vith a view toward maximizing the impact of policy aned inistitutional innovation within the
province. Specific investment choices within sectors and cities responded to municipal
government strategies to bring ambient environmental quality or service standards up to
national guidelines. For the latter, analyvsis sought the least cost option for meeting the
guidelines. The detailed calculations can be found in the project files. Highlights of the
analysis are given below.
C ity And Sector Choices
6.     I lubei Province has developed environmental improvement plans with annual, five
year, and ten year horizons. These plans include upgraded urban environmental services in
all of flubei's 30 cities and a focus on the 117 most highly polluting enterprises, most of
wvhich are within city administrative boundaries. In urban environmental services, the plans
higlhlight the relative lack of sewerage services within urbani areas-household and
industrial wastewater typically discharges to creeks, rivers, and lakes rather than to sewer
systems-and the virtual absence of sanitary landfills or other safe disposal for solid waste
and nightsoil.  Enterprise pollution abatement strategies locus on process change,
siometimes accompanied by physical relocation of the enterprise.
7.    In urban environmental service provision, cities were included in the project based
on the size of the population potentially benefiting from improved services and considering
their value as models to other provincial cities. After reviewing potential investments in
some nine provincial cities, the four largest cities were selected for further project
development. Each of those cities had already prepared environmental improvement plans
that outlined priority service improvements, both in terms of the type of service and areas of
the city needing service. With the project, each city established a council headed by a vice-
mayor, with members from the environmental protection, urban services, plamning, and
financial bureaus, to review existing plans and guide any decisions needed on scope or



- 159 -                       ANNEX 14
administrative arrangements. Work with Bank missions colnfirmed the choice to extend
sewerage systems and build or substantially expand sanitary landfills.
8.    The Hubei strategy for industrial pollution control builds on national and provincial
emissions control law and regulations. However, the current concentration-based emissions
controls can produce the perverse results that even if all enterprises comply, high ambient
pollution levels can result where receiving body volume is low compared to effluent
volumes, or, when receiving body volumes and other characteristics create very high
assimilative capacity compared to loads, enterprises will spend an excessive amount on
pollution control. In response, the province is moving to a mass-based permit system, the
implementation of which is an element of the Environmental Improvement Action Plan in
this project.
9.    For enterprises built before polluting effluents were regulated, cash flow alone
rarely meets the financing needs of process changes or end-of-pipe treatment that will
allow compliance with current effluent standards. Pollution abatement investments must
compete in China's plan-driven credit market with investments typically offering much
higher financial returns to sponsors. Where banks are able to make loans outside of state-
dictated  credit plans, they  seek  high  and  rapid  returli opportunities, a feature
uncharacteristic of pollution-abatement investments. Credit market constraints [described
much more fully in the China Department's 1995 Capital Markets Sector Study (No.
14501-CHA)] do leave a large number of abatement opportunities in economically and
financially viable enterprises that currently have a high pollution impact on large
populations.  Hubei Province therefore sought to use part of the loan to fund such
investments.  The Province agreed with the Bank on a selection process to identify
enterprise pollution abatement programs that would have a high positive impact on urban
populations and provide them access to a line-of-credit to finance the interventions. This
line-of-credit activity is discussed more fully below.
10.   The potential Bank loan for the municipal service and enterprise pollution control
activities was far below the absorptive capacity of the province. Either urban environmental
services or the industrial pollution control component could have absorbed the entire loan
earmnarked for the province bv the State Planning Commission.  Given that urban
environmental problems could be successfully addressed only by a combination of urban
servize and industrial pollution control measures, and that the high visibility of Bank-
financed operations was thought important to providing model approaches to outstanding
prob:ems, the HPG and Bank agreed that both types of activities should be incorporated
into :he loan. The allocation of the loan between the two types of activities, approximately
two ihirds to municipal services and one third to industrial pollution control, resulted from a
shared judgment about the balance that would produce maximum impact within the
province. Decisions about resource allocation within sectors and cities are detailed below:



-160 -                        ANNEX 14
Wastewater Collection and Treatment
11.   Wuhan. Currently, some 60 percent of the 1.8 million m3 average daily wastewater
flows within the city of Wuhan discharge to sewers. In Wuchang district, a wastewater
treatment plant with 50,000 m3 daily capacity was recently commissioned, but a lack of
operating funds idles the plant for several months each year. Unsewered wastewater
discharges to lakes, canals, and rivers within the municipality, all of which eventually
discharge to the Yangtze. The quality of these surface waters has deteriorated rapidly in
recent years, with that in the largest lake, East Lake (see Map 27250), now Class IV' in
many areas and experiencing heavy eutrophication, Moshui Lake well below Class V,
Nanhu Lake with BOD5 and cyanide over Class V standard and Nantaizi Lake plagued by
eutrophication. Most smaller canals and rivers fail to meet Class V, although the Fu river
does meet Class IV. Nonetheless, East Lake has been a major raw water source for
domestic use in Wuchang district, with installed capacity equal to 10 percent of all Wuhan
municipal supply, and its waters are used for irrigation, commercial and recreational
fishing, other recreation, and industrial supply. Nanhu Lake serves the same functions with
the exception of domestic potable water supply. Moshui has been lost to use except as a
waste sink.
12.   The Yangtze and Han Rivers split Wuhan into three large districts, all of which lack
adequate sewering and wastewater treatment. To facilitate the introduction of institutional
and tariff reforms throughout the city, the Wuhan municipal government sought to include
Bank-supported work in each of the three districts.  Investment priority, based on
anticipated impact on water quality and the associated population, was first diversion of
wastewater from East Lake in the Wuchang district; second capture of flows in west
Hankou district, with discharge to the Fu River; and third, diversion of wastewater from
Nantaizi Lake and Moshui Lake in Hanyang district, with preliminary treatment and
discharge to the Yangtze.
13.   Direct economic losses to East Lake pollution include those of water supply losses
(averaging an additional Y 20 million/year as the cost of replacing East Lake supply with
that from the Yangtze), additional health costs and lost recreational and development
potential. The latter two costs are more difficult to evaluate than additional water supply
costs, but Wuhan research institutes have attached estimated values of Y 21 million and
Y 12 million annually to these losses. At a 12 percent discount rate, that represents a net
present value of Y 401 million to the pollution damage, assuming that the worsening water
quality would not cause further real increases in costs. The cheapest remedy for these
losses would be to capture the wastewater flows and discharge them without treatment to
the Yangtze, with its higher assimilative capacity. Investment costs for this approach would
total about Y 300 million. However, such discharges to the Yangtze are no longer
The water quality classification system: Classes I and I: high quality suitable for drinking water
source; Class Ill: usable for drinking water after treatment; Class IV: boating, fishing, industrial water
supply; Class V: irrigation and industrial cooling.



-161-                       ANNEX14
permitted by the central govermment, in an attempt to preserve Yangtze quality at its current
Class II level. The alternative selected, of expanding existing tertiary and secondary sewers
on the western side of East Lake (see Map 27250) and expanding the existing wastewater
treatment plant at Shahu, would permit primary treatment of up to 230,000 rn3/day of
wastewater diverted from East Lake. An additional 150,000 m3/day of wastewater would
be picked up on the south side of East Lake for discharge to South Lake after primary
treatment. At an investment cost of approximately Y 640 million, these two interventions
would divert and treat nearly all sewage flowing into East Lake and lead to the following
estimated change in East Lake quality over time:
Table 1: EAST LAKE PHOSPHORUS CONCENTRATIONS
Time (years)             1            3             5               10
Total Phosphorus        60           32            26               24
(mg/m 3)
14.   This would, for this indicator, improve water quality from Class IV to Class II.
These estimates assume the inflow of Yangtze River water needed to maintain the water
balance of East Lake, works for which would be included under the proposed project. Even
with the wastewater flow abated, total phosphorus levels remain high because of
phosphorus release from lake sediments. This problem is even more severe in other lakes
and marks the difficulty of finding short-run solutions to water quality problems. The
option of dredging the lake to remove polluted sediments was rejected as less effective than
further extensions of the sewerage network.
15.   An interceptor sewer would pick up 70 percent of sewage currently discharging to
Moshui Lake, with high quality water flows from the Han River providing water balance.
As noted above, Moshui serves solely as a waste sink at this point and no estimate has been
made of foregone services compared to a lake in this location with usable water quality.
Even with the planned diversion, given the very high pollutant loads in Moshui Lake
sediments, water quality recovery is expected to take more than the 10 years needed by East
Lake. Nonetheless, that recovery can be expected to bring the lake within Class V quality
within a decade. The least cost approach relies on an open settling basin, rather than
conventional treatment, to provide some solids removal prior to discharge to the Yangtze.
16.   The densely populated West Hankou area currently discharges wastewater through
open channels carrying combined stormwater and wastewater flows that eventually enter
the Fu River. That river currently rates as Class IV or V, depending on measurement site.
The existing open channels lack sufficient capacity for the growing wastewater volume, and
overflow into streets, fish ponds and agricultural land is common. The city plan is to
upgrade collection, providing the needed capacity to avoid overflows and, where possible,
fully enclosing the sewers. Discharge would continue to the Fu River, after preliminary
treatment. No quality improvement in that river would be possible until the addition of
further treatment, which is contemplated after the year 2000. The least cost solution sought



-162-                        ANNEX 14
to maximize capture of flows currently discharging to open channels within the overall
budget constraint on this component.
17.   Xiangfan. Currently, Xiangfan city wastewater flows discharge through tertiary
and some secondary sewers to the nearest river or, in the Xiangcheng district, the city moat.
As a result, those surface waters are highly polluted, with the smaller rivers such as the
Qilihe and Xiaoqinghe failing to reach Class V water quality, the lowest permissible for any
human use. Nonetheless, the water is used for irrigation, some is extracted for industrial
use, and human contact continues through uses such as fishing. A large number of
discharges go directly to the Han River, generally downstream of the municipal and
industrial raw water irntakes. Despite the high assimilative capacity of the Han, that river
falls from the Class I to Class II range above the city to Class III or IV below the city. The
Han stands to lose a third of its flow to the South-North water transfer project over the next
decade, and as it serves as a key raw water source down to Wuhan, the quality of its water is
a particular concern for the province. As the main upstream city, Xiangfan is under
pressure to minimize polluting inputs to the river.
18.   Xiangfan has designed a collection and treatment system for its wastewaters, but has
lacked adequate financing to install the system. After a review of the Xiangfan design and
assessment of costs and counterpart funding ability, it was clear that even with Bank
support the entire system could not be constructed within the time frame of this project.
Based on Xiangfan's counterpart funding ability, and sizing for year 2010 flows, the
physical scope of the project was determined by working upstream from the proposed
treatment plant site. Treatment was set at the preliminary level after an assimilative
capacity study showed that the 6.9 m3/sec municipal flows could continue to be discharged
directly to the Han with no net deterioration of Han quality. The new outfall will have
better dispersion characteristics than the current riverbank discharges. In anticipation of
later need, the preliminary treatment works are being designed and sufficient land is being
set aside for the addition of primary and secondary treatment as soon as that is feasible.
Because serving either the Xiangcheng or Fancheng districts required major river crossings,
only one could be supported under the project. The Fancheng crossing was substantially
less costly and the district has the larger wastewater flows, so the lowest cost per cubic
meter intercepted could be realized there. Conveyors of appropriate size were extended up
through the Fancheng catchment until funds ran out. This permitted most discharges to the
Xiaoqinghe and Qilihe, the largest rivers within Fancheng district, to be picked up. The
quality of those rivers should rise from below grade to approximately Class 111. It also
permitted interception of nearly all Fancheng neighborhood discharges to the Han, but here
the pollution impact was simply displaced downstream. Design and construction work on
further extensions of the system will be financed if the first phase realizes significant
savings compared to estimated construction costs.
19.   Huangshi. Huangshi is built back from the Yangtze and around Cihu Lake (see
Map 27175). The bulk of the urban wastewater discharges into Cihu, which itself
discharges through a pump station to the Yangtze. Cihu, which serves fishing, swimming
and amenity needs, has deteriorated from Class III to less than Class V on its southern side



-163 -                       ANNEX 14
over the past decade. Very rapid industrial and residential growth has accelerated nutrient
build up in the lake, which now experiences eutrophication that will soon become extremely
serious.
Table 2: CIHu LAKE WATER QUALITY
Total Phosphorus     Chlorophyll     Transparency  1
Load (g/m31yr)       (mg/m3)            (m)
Without project current            3.64                14.3              0.4
2000               4.54               163.8              0.3
With project    2000               0.11                12.3              1.7
20.   The Huangshi urban development master plan calls for interceptor sewers that
would parallel the lake shore on both the north and south sides, picking up all wastewater
flows currently entering the lake. Counterpart funding and loan size constraints allow only
the first phase of this work to be undertaken in the next five years. The least cost strategy
was based on picking up the largest wastewater flows with the available funds, forgoing any
but preliminary treatment before discharge to the Yangtze. The engineering costing details
of the options are available in the project files. Because of similar composition of the
physical and labor inputs to the alternative investments, the engineering prices serve as an
adequate guide to comparative economic costs. The analysis showed that with the heavier
concentration of residential and industrial flows on the south side of the lake, the unit cost
of picking up flows was lower there. As this was also the most seriously polluted section of
the lake, the choice was made to build the south trunk sewer first. This sewer will serve
approximately 120,000 people. The south trunk sewer work alone is estimated to bring
Cihu Lake back to Class III water quality, eliminating the risk to current uses.
21.   Sewered flows will discharge to the Yangtze. The Yangtze assimilative capacity is
sufficiently high in relation to Huangshi flows (2.2 m3/sec for Huangshi vs. 23,800 m3/sec
for the Yangtze) that treatment is not needed at this stage. Therefore, as in Xiangfan, a
preliminary treatment plant will be built at a site large enough for, and with preliminarv
treatment works sized for, later expansion to primary and then secondary treatment.
Wastes Disposal
22.   Of the four project cities, only Wuhan and Huangshi have sanitary landfills or other
means of preventing solid waste from becoming a long term environmental threat. The
Wuhan site handles less than 25 percent of the city's municipal solid waste, and the
Huangshi site takes about one third of that city's municipal solid waste. The remaining
wastes go to either municipal dumps that, while well managed, lack any provision for
leachate or gas control, or to informal dumps that lack the management of the municipal
dumps. The other cities rely on a combination of municipal and informal dumps. Based on
international experience, dumps without leachate or gas control pose a long run threat to the
aquifers that run under them, to watercourses that receive leachate from them, and to



-164 -                         ANNEX 14
surrounding land. If landfill gasses are not collected and flared, they contribute substantial
amiounits of methane to the atmosphere. For these reasons, China has joined many other
countries in stipulating minimum standards for leachate and gas control in landfilling of
municipal solid waste.
23 *.   Potential solid waste disposal strategies include recycling, composting, incineration,
and landfilling. Recycling plays an active role in each of the cities, capturing most of the
5 percent of the municipal waste stream that can be profitably recycled. The industry is
highly competitive, withl little scope for additional useful municipal intervention.
Composting, to recycle organic materials, has been tested with scant success in Wuhan and
other Chinese cities. Costs have been high and markets have not supported product sales.
A major problem for composting and incineration is that over half of the waste stream is
inorganic, with coal ash the dominant inorganic component. Analysis in other Chinese
cities with similar waste streams has shown incineration to be substantially more costly than
landfill. Based on that work, each of the four cities hias elected to use landfilling to handle
their municipal solid wastes.
24.    Eaclh of the project cities faces the need to build new sites, as current sites are
approaching capacity. Cities have accepted that new solid waste disposal sites must comply
with national standards, so have made no attempt to undertake the very difficult comparison
of the cost of adding leachate and gas collection with the damage that would ensue from
their absence. Damage estimates would depend on leachate diffusion through aquifers,
systematic sampling of local water bodies to identify leachate impacts, then estimation of
economic uses of those waters over time and the cost of forgone use or pollution
amelioration. Gas emission volumes and dispersion would be easier to estimate, but
damage valuation would be very uncertain. Given the long run risks inherent in unprotected
landfills, the Bank accepted the municipal judgment on the need to provide leachate and gas
collection and treatment without additional impact evaluation.
25.    Once the decision was made on landfill standards, each city faced the need to
identify the least cost site and design. Wuhan, Xiangfan, Yichang, and Huangslhi each
considered a number of alternative locations, with one of the main decision criteria being to
minimize the joint cost of transport, land acquisition and site development. As land
acquisition cost correlates very strongly with resettlement impact, this criteria also
minimizes resettlement. Yichang identified two potential sites with similar haul distances
and resettlement impact. The site chosen was preferred because the other site was in a new
industrial development zone and thought to be an inappropriate use of land in such a zone.
Huangshi narrowed its choices to three sites, with the Xisai site preferred for easy access
and minimum impact on surrounding populations. Wuhan had an existing site with suitable
land available for expansion. To take advantage of existing infrastructure, no other sites
were considered. Detailed assessment of the choices by each city is described in the project
files. Xiangfan has two possible sites that appear to have similar unit costs. Detailed
analysis has been completed on one site and continues on the other.



-165-                         ANNEX 14
Industrial Pollution Control
26.   The industrial pollution control component has two subcomponents, one a line of
credit for major investments and the other a pollution control fund targeting small
investments and small-scale enterprises. Eligibility for the line of credit was restricted in
the first instance to Hubei's 117 most polluting industrial enterprises, which are responsible
for over 60 percent of industrial pollution in Hubei. The toxicity of enterprises' pollutants
and the population affected by the pollution were evaluated. The higlhest-imiipact firms were
then subject to a simple economic screening that eliminated (a) all enterprises which had a
negative net worth and were losing money, and (b) any enterprise whose abatement strategy
depended on production of a commodity in which the enterprise had no prior experience.
With priority based on their environmental impact, remaining firms were then eligible for
more thorough technical, financial, and economic appraisal. The funds available for
subloans would finance pollution control programs for approximately six firms, if current
investment plans remain unchanged after appraisal. One appraisal of Ezhou Iron & Steel
(Egang) was successfully undertaken during overall project appraisal, to test the quality of
local appraisal efforts.  The remainder will be done in the early months of project
effectiveness.
27.   Technical appraisal will focus on feasibility and efficiency:  is operation of the
proposed investment within the technical capabilities of the firm, and will it result in
production clean enough to meet national and local discharge standards while yielding a
significant improvement in ambient air or water quality for a significant population. The
economic appraisal will look at whether the technical choice was the most economically
efficient among technical alternatives and whether the input and output market prospects
support the sustainability of the financial appraisal results. The financial appraisal will
focus on the company as a whole, rather than on the particular technology. This is because
the most effective intervention may be end-of-pipe treatment of an effluent stream, with no
financial return other than cessation of effluent fees.
28.   The successful appraisal covered two investments at the enterprise ranked as most
environmentally damaging among viable firms. Details of the appraisal may be found in
the Project Files. The key appraisal finding showed the firm to be financially healthy and
economically viable. The firm benefited from progressive price liberalization after 1992,
and in 1994 had net profits of Y 220 million on sales of Y 1,520 million and low debt
compared to the industry average. The latter finding was particularly important given the
rapid integration of China's steel industry into the international market economy. In
brief, the first Egang investment will replace a 40-year old electric arc furnace that is
responsible for 23 percent of the TSP concentrations within an urban area containing some
200,000 people. The proposed investment is in a new furnace, incorporating up-to-date air
pollution control, which will produce virtually no particulates or NO, and will improve air
quality for affected people from Class III to Class IL. The new furnace will have higher
capacity than the old one and will also use less electricity per ton of steel produced. TFlc
investment will yield an estimated 12 percent financial and 23 percent economic rate ot
return on the investment, where the economic rate of return incorporates none of die air



-166-                           ANNEX 14
quality gains. Most of the gap between the financial and economic rates of return is due to
the fact that Egang steel is priced 20 to 30 percent below CIF imported prices for equivalent
products. That gap leaves substantial room to absorb price pressures should the world steel
market soften. Table 3 summarizes the economic return calculation.
Table 3: ECONOMIC RETURNS
(Steel production is in thousand tons/year. Costs and revenue are in million yuan)
1995   1996   1997   1998    1999    2000      2001-2014
Incremental Steel Production  0      0       0      0       0      50          50
Incremental Revenue           0      0       0      0      18     224         230
Incremnental Production Cost  0      0       0      0    -32       65          55
Investment Cost              17   227    151       53
Net                         -17  -227   -151    -53        50     159         175
Economic Rate of Return = 23%
Note: The new furnace would begin production in 1999, producing 150,000 tons that year and reaching
full capacity of 300,000 tons by 2001. The with-project steel is higher quality and thus commands a
higher price.
29.    The analysis also looked at the sensitivity of the economic rate of returns to
various changes. The four factors judged to have the greatest impact on the economic
rate of return were changes in the economic price of steel, an increase in input costs
relative to sales prices, higher-than-anticipated capital costs, and lower-than-anticipated
efficiency levels. Egang steel prices are already over 20 percent below border prices for
the product and a further 10 percent price drop would drop the ERR by 3 percent. An
increase in input costs would have relatively little impact on the ERR because it would
have a nearly equal impact on the without-project scenario, where steel production
continues with the current furnace-a 10 percent cost increase would drop the ERR by
only I percent. The ERR is also relatively insensitive to capital cost increases, with a
2 percent drop for a 10 percent capital cost increase. A further factor considered was a
"learning curve" in using the new fumace, whereby operating efficiency would be below
the norm for, say, the first three years of operation. Given the large staff of engineers and
operators experienced with electric-arc furnaces, three years is seen as an outer bound for
those efficiency  losses.   Of these various factors, the risk of "learning  curve"
inefficiencies and steel price decreases are judged most likely (although vis-a-vis the
international market, upside price potential would appear to outweigh downside). To
drop the ERR to the test level of 12 percent, a combination of factors including a
20 percent drop in sales price (to over 40 percent below international market levels), a
I0 percent increase in capital costs, and a 10 percent "learning curve" drop in efficiency
would have to occur. This or similar adverse combinations are judged highly unlikely
given Egang's operating experience and recent market history in the key input and output
markets.



-167-                        ANNEX 14
30.   The high and robust economic returns to the proposed air pollution control
investment are an example of a "win-win" solution to an environmental problem.
However, Egang also includes an example of damaging wastewater discharges that are
difficult to value, and the main available intervention increases operating costs with no
corresponding increase in a marketable product. Egang discharges some 17 tons a year of
phenol, 11.8 tons of cyanide, and 462 tons of oil, as well as substantial solids and COD
into local watercourses and then the Yangtze.  The phenol and cyanide are over
90 percent of all such discharges in Ezhou city and the oil 63 percent, with the result that
the major urban waterways fall to category IV for phenol and oil, and II for cyanide.
31.   To reduce these discharges, Egang will substantially revamp their wastewater
handling system. All discharges currently entering the Yanglan Lake or Xingang River
will be intercepted, treated, and reused, ending Egang's contribution to their pollution.
Yanglan Lake is fished and used as an industrial water supply source. Xingang stream
provides potable water for villagers and a source of industrial water supply.  No
epidemiological work has been done on the impact of Egang discharges through fish
consumption or domestic water supply, so damage estimates were not possible. The most
serious discharges, from the coking plant, will continue to discharge directly to the
Yangtze. However, a new coking wastewater treatment plant financed by the project will
radically reduce pollutants in that discharge, with, for example, phenol falling from 1.53
tons/year to 0.45 tons/year and oil from 32.4 tons/year to 6.5 tons/year. The net effect of
the investment will be to bring the Xingang River and Yuanlan Lake to Class II in tllese
pollutants, allowing safe use of the water. The cost is high-an estimated Y 130 million
or $13 million.
32.   Based on the industrial pollution control ranking system, investments in Egang are
anticipated to have the most substantial positive environmental impacts. The remaining
top-ranked firms on the short list are two cement plants, wastewater and waste gas treatment
at two chemical plants and wastewater treatment at a pharmaceutical plant.
33.   The environmental pollution control fund remains to be established, so cannot be
assessed in the same way the line-of-credit can be. The goal of the fund differs from the
line of credit, in that it strives to serve as a model for the operation of the municipal and
county run pollution control funds capitalized through pollution levy fees. These are
revolving funds, but to date have lacked effective management, targeting, and credit
policies. Hence, while the appraisal goals are similar to the line of credit, the target firms
and pollution problems are much smaller scale. The fund will seek to minimize
management costs, while effectively recycling loans. The fund will bear credit risk, for,
like the line of credit, banks will play a solely agent role. Again, like the line of credit,
loans will be made at a rate at least 150 basis points above the Bank variable rate, the
margin to be determined by operating costs and credit risk assessment. However, the fund
will not have the direct power of the finance bureau to encourage timely loan servicing by
enterprises. Also, it will face a history of disbursement of pollution levy fees as grants. The
fund will respond to these risks in two ways. First, by careful financial analysis and



-168-                       ANNEX 14
conservative lending and second by concentrating on smaller loans with relatively short
repayment periods.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
34.   The project would contribute significantly to improving Hubei's environment, in
ways detailed in the body of the SAR and the annexes. Potential adverse impacts from the
sanitary landfill and industrial pollution control components require an "A" category in
terms of the World Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (EA).
Accordingly, a full EA has been completed, reviewed by the Bank and approved by NEPA.
The full report can be found in the project files. Annex 8 details the EA findings and
reflects the findings of the appraisal mission. The resettlement impact of the project will be
managed through a resettlement action plan that can be found in the project files and is
summarized in Annex 7.
D. AFFORDABILITY AND POVERTY ASSESSMENT
35.   The affordability issue arises only with the wastewater components of the proposed
project. The industrial pollution interventions will proceed only if the enterprise can
demonstrate that it will remain financially sound after the investment, and solid waste
charges will rise only for industrial and commercial users of the new landfills.
Affordability of the new wastewater systems was tested against current consumption
pattems and average income of the poorest 10 percent of the urban population in the three
cities. The proposed first year tariff would consume an average of 0.25 percent of the
income of the poorest 10 percent, based on 80 percent of water used. Indeed, because the
poor are less likely than other households to have water piped to the house (using
standpipes instead, for which no fees are currently charged), even the 0.25 percent figure
represents an upper bound.
36.   The affordability of the higher tariffs anticipated in later years will clearly depend
on changes in real income among the urban poor over time. In real terms, the tariffs will
increase to as much as twice the anticipated 1996 rate. With no change in real income and
no consumption effect, the average wastewater bill would increase to 0.50 percent of
average income for the poorest 10 percent of households. However, over the past decade,
the real incomes of the urban poor have risen in line with overall income increases. If that
pattem, and overall real personal income growth, continues near current rates, wastewater
tariffs as a percentage of personal income would remain virtually unchanged from the first
year level. In absolute terms, the increase would be fully offset by first year income gains.
E. PROJECT RisKs
37.   The proposed project faces or mitigates a variety of risks. Those risks are here
grouped under three general headings: implementation and operational risks, regulatory
risk, and risks to long term sustainability. Each type of risk will be discussed in turn.



-169-                       ANNEX 14
Implementation and Operation Risks
38.   These risks include a variety of institutional, physical, and financial factors that
could interfere with the timely construction or operation of any of the project elements, or
with the implementation of the institutional innovations. Specifically, these include:
Municipal Components
39.   Procurement Risks: Lack of familiarity with Bank procurement procedures and
policies may lead to delayed procurement. Experience in a wide array of Bank projects has
shown this risk to be substantial among new borrowers. HUEPO's use of an experienced
Chinese tendering company (already engaged) will help mitigate the risk in preparing
commercial documents. The plan to use international consultants experienced with Bankl
financed projects to provide advisory services on preparation of technical documents.
HUEPO will sign a contract for the latter services by negotiations and the consultant team
will be in place well before effectiveness.
40.   Financial Risks: These risks are of two sorts, those of counterpart funding and
operational funding. Counterpart funding risks derive from the fact that the Bank loan
covers only part of the construction costs. The wastewater agencies are financing a
relatively small proportion of the investment out of current income, and that income
depends on implementation of the new tariffs (discussed further under policy risk). Given
the inelastic demand for water in the three cities (on consumption of which the wastewater
charges are based), the conservative billing assumptions used, and the fact that the initial
tariff increase will be implemented before project effectiveness, the risk of inadequate
wastewater company revenues is deemed to be low. The bulk of the counterpart funds are
allocated from the municipal budget. Indeed, to minimize risks in this area, municipal
budgets were analyzed under the assumption that all counterpart funding would come from
that source.  Those budgets have been analyzed under growth assumptions that are
conservative compared to recent experience. Even then, counterpart funding requirements
would amount to less than 3 percent of on-budget revenues and no more than 40 percent of
recent on-budget capital investment allocations in all but Xiangfan. Given the importance
of off-budget revenues to cities (up to half of total revenue), both of those indicators suggest
a higher exposure than actually exists.
41.   Xiangfan's investment program would demand up to 4 percent of annual total on-
budget expenditures and would represent, in the peak year, a doubling of the historical on-
budget capital expenditures. Again, given the growing importance of off-budget income
and investment, these figures overstate project exposure in Xiangfan. As with all the
project cities, Xiangfan has identified and committed to specific funding sources for this
project. Furthermore, the Bank sought independent analysis from the provincial finance
bureau of the availability of and risks to the stated funding sources. Based on the Bank and
provincial finance bureau assessments, the Xiangfan investment program was pared down
to its current level, as representing a feasible investment under the conservative growth
assumptions.  Nonetheless, a substantial slowdown in municipal revenue growth, which



-170 -                        ANNEX 14
would likely accompany any major downturn in the national economic cycle, would force
the city to cut back on ongoing investments.  Under similar circumstances, local
governments in other Bank-supported projects in China have sometimes reduced their
annual counterpart funding, lengthening the construction period. In Xiangfan's case,
counterpart funding risks are minimized during the first year of implementation by the fact
that the appraisal of the Xiangfan solid waste component has been delayed (for technical
reasons unrelated to financing). This will allow overall progress in the first year of project
implementation to be evaluated before committing to the additional landfill investment.
42.   In terms of operational funding, Hubei province and the cities have agreed to a
financial covenant that will, for wastewater operations, generate sufficient revenues
through operations to meet anticipated operational, depreciation, and loan repayment
needs.  Initial tariff adjustments prior to project effectiveness, in addition, allow a
contribution to capital. Solid waste operations will continue to rely on direct government
allocations for a part of their operating costs, given the difficulty of billing households on
a waste volume basis (per capita or per household taxes substitute for this). However, the
ability fully to cost and charge for the important commercial and industrial services will
increase revenues to the environmental sanitation bureaus, reducing dependence on the
city and the risk of inadequate operating funds.
43.   Construction Risk:  The proposed investments differ little in construction
demands from other work already successfully undertaken in the cities themselves, or
elsewhere in the province. The one possible exception to this would come if the landfill
in Yichang is deemed to need an artificial liner. Such liners have been rarely used in
China and need particular care during installation and operation. To minimize this risk,
the installation contract will require firms to demonstrate successful experience in the
field.
44.   Operational Risk: This risk is deemed to be very small due to the fact that all of
the proposed technologies are in successful operation either in the cities themselves, or in
other Chinese cities or plants with staff of equivalent background and training. The
technical assistance planned under the project would further mitigate this risk by providing
operational training on all newly constructed municipal facilities.
45.   The shift to new organizational forms for wastewater management is critical to
project success.  All cities are well along in the process, with Xiangfan having
successfully completed the transformation to an enterprise. In Huangshi, assets have been
revalued and that work is being reviewed by the State Asset Bureau, the last step before
formal transfer. Wuhan has begun revaluing assets and expects to undertake the transfer by
the end of 1995, well before planned effectiveness. The groundwork is thus laid for
introduction of the new accounting and management information systems needed to
efficiently guide the work of these enterprises. In the long run, efficient operation will
also depend on cities honoring the autonomy of the enterprises in personnel and other
management decisions. This element of risk cannot be divorced from larger efforts
within the economy to reforrn government relations with the state owned enterprise



-171-                        ANNEX 14
sector. These issues have recently received thorough analysis in State Owned Enterprise
Reform (currently in yellow cover). The solid waste sector presents a rather different
challenge, as this will continue in bureau form. Here, the challenge is to introduce the
new accounting tools. The risk to this is minimized by the advantage to the ESB of being
able to identify costs and thus justify the tariffs agreed to by the cities.
Industrial pollution control component
46.   Two main types of risk to the industrial pollution control component will be
addressed here. These are credit risk and the risk that the pollution abatement goals are
not met.
47.   Credit risk under the project is borne by the provincial government. Under the
line of credit, the agent bank, for a fee, undertakes project appraisal and handles fund
administration on behalf of the provincial government. An essential element of the
project appraisal, which is subject to review and confirmation by the provincial finance
bureau, is analysis of the firm's financial strength and the risk it faces in its input and
output markets. The firm must meet a 1.4 debt service coverage requirement over the
project life, providing that margin of safety to the government exposure. Representatives
of the provincial finance bureau have stated that their subjective estimate of the credit risk
in the project approaches zero. They argue that within the Chinese system as currently
structured, the finance bureau has sufficient discretionary power over the state owned
enterprises seeking access to the line of credit that they have primacy over all other
creditors. Nonetheless, the loans are being made at no less than 150 basis points over the
Bank variable lending rate, in US dollars, with the enterprise bearing the foreign
exchange risk. With fees to the agent Bank amounting to no more than 50 basis points,
the provincial government will capture at least 100 basis points to cover their costs and
risks. In addition, they will enjoy the use of loan and interest payments in the interval
between collection from the enterprise and repayment to the Ministry of Finance.
48.   Given the well-known failure of many enterprises to operate their pollution
abatement facilities, the analysis addressed the risk that pollution abatement goals would
not be met. Based on the short-listed project designs, this risk is deemed to be very
small. The reason is that, although not a requirement for access to the line-of-credit, the
bulk of the proposed investments are in process changes. The pollution abatement in
these investments derives not from add-on equipment, but from the intrinsic properties of
the production process compared to the original. Thus, the proposed electric arc furnace
for Egang does not have a "dirty" operating mode that could be used to save power or
other inputs. Nor do the proposed kilns in the cement plants. An exception to this pattern
can be found in the wastewater treatment plans for Egang. Here, one part of the strategy
involves treating and reusing the cleanest part of the wastewater stream, and the reuse
demand will help ensure adequate treatment. But the coke oven wastewater will, after
treatment, discharge as before to the Yangtze. If the treatment plant were to shut down,
enterprise operation would be cheaper but not otherwise affected. The only way to
mitigate this risk is aggressive monitoring and application of heavy fines for violations.



-172 -                        ANNEX 14
The local EPB does not have a history of such an approach, but has indicated that because
the EPB system helped Egang gain access to the line of credit, Egang now has a moral
obligation to operate the equipment, an obligation that did not previously exist.
Moreover, the EPB system is more generally stepping up its pollution levy fee collections
and pollution licensing system. so the new equipment will come on line in an era of
increased attention to compliance.
Policy/Regulatory Risk
49.   Major policy risks include: (a) possible resistance to timely implementation of the
new tarif'f structure and (b) that the sustained investment program needed for full wastes
control stretches well beyond the closing date of the proposed project and must be
continued to hold the water, solid waste and air pollution levels within efficient limits.
Thlese risks are all characterized by the importance of positive government action at either
the provincial or municipal level. The related institutional innovation risk was analyzed
earlier.
50.   Of the above risks, failure to implement agreed tariffs would seriously impair the
performance incentives of the utilities and their ability to finance ongoing investment
programs. To mitigate this risk, a tariff increase before negotiation is being required and
tariffs will be a supervision focal point. The latter will be aided by the fact that service
providers are required to present annual accounts showing whether existing tariffs have met
their financial needs and to project tariff levels needed in the following year.
51.   To encourage continued implementation of the broader environmental services
investment program, the proposed project includes funds for further project preparation and
introduces a tariff strategy that will sustain future investment. At least as important to
minimizing risk in the long run program is increasing citizen attention to and demand for
environmental improvements. That trend is being spurred by a special committee of the
National People's Congress. While citizen awareness is not supported directly by the
project, the spread of the investments is designed to provide solid evidence of the gains
from pollution control and thus gamer support for further action.
52.   Significant regulatory risks arise because the pollution control results anticipated
for the surface waters depend not only on sewerage technologies successfully constructed
and operated by the cities. Many important pollutants must be controlled at source by the
industries generating them.  A failure to do so could threaten either the sewerage
int'rastructure or the quality of the various lakes and rivers, depending on enterprise
discharge points. The principal means of mitigating this risk is a strong regulatory
regime. The importance of this work was recognized during preparation of the project
and is addressed under the environmental action plan (Annex I1).
Risks to Long-Term Sustainability
53.   The major risks to long term sustainability are financial and regulatory, and have
been discussed above. Additional risks arise from outside of the cities themselves and



-173 -                       ANNEX 14
center on polluting inputs to the various water bodies from areas beyond municipal
control. These additional pollutants could overwhelm any benefit that would otherwise
be realized by the planned investments. In the case of the network of waterways within
the cities, this risk is not great. Most of their watersheds are small, pollutants are of local
origin, and their control will be a function of the proper operation of the project.
However, the Han and Yangtze suffer from nonpoint source pollutants, particularly
agricultural, and carry substantial nutrient loads from upstream agriculture as well as
industrial pollution discharges. Satisfactory abatement of those polluting sources will
depend on the actions of a large number of political jurisdictions, most of which would
suffer no immediate harm from continued discharges to these rivers. The growing
appreciation within China of the importance of water pollution abatement offers the best
hope of inducing compliance with the current industrial regulations.  A  similar
appreciation of the risks from agriculture has yet to appear, and must become an element
of river basin quality control.
54.   Even if loads from other sources remain as predicted, minimizing any impact
from growing municipal loads will require a high degree of municipal treatment in
Xiangfan particularly.  There, the Han river faces the prospect of substantial flow
reductions if the South-North Water Transfer project proceeds. Even before those flows
fall, the environmental assessment for this project highlighted the importance of the Han
as a drinking water source and that absent early introduction of secondary treatment to
Xiangfan flows, the Han would fall below the Class II status that makes it a desirable raw
water source for municipal use.



-174 -                       ANNEX 15
ANNEX 15: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
F[ivironmental Assessment:
1.    F'nvironmental Impact Assessment for Hubei Province Urban Environmental
PIoject (Chiinese Research Academy of Environmental Sciences; The Center of
I livironmental Planninig & Assessment, May 1995).
Fv'asibilitv Studv':
(enleral
I.    1 lube LUrban Wastewater Comprehensive Treatment Project Feasibility Review,
I'liase 2 Icli clijiiiary Design Report Vol. I & 2 (Dessau International Ltd.; March
1995).
Xianllg I111
I.    Solid Waste Management Component: Final Section Analysis and Preliminary
Il'ilneering Rcport. Volume III: Xiangfan (DHV Consultants BV, March 1995).
2.   \V'astevwaster Collection. Treatment, and  Disposal Component, Xiangfan.
Feasibility and Preliminary Engineering Report. Vols. I and 2. (Overseas Projects
Components of Victoria, Ltd., May 1995)
I.    Solid  Waste  Management Component: Final Analysis  and  Preliminary
F7Aigi ncering Report, Volume 1: fluangshi (DHV Consultants BV, March 1 995).
2.    Wastewater  Collections, Treatment and  Disposal  Component  Huangshi.
Feasibility and IPreliminary Engineering Report. Vols. I & 2 (Overseas Projects
C'orporation of Victoria Ltd. May 1995).
Withan
1     ',Solid Waste Management Component Final Section Analysis and Preliminary
l-ngineering Report, Volume II: WuLllan (DHV Consultants BV, March 1995).



- 175-                      ANNEX,  5
3.    Wuhan  Urban  Wastewater  Comprehensive  Treatment  Proj ect  (Dessau
International Ltd., March 1995).
Yichang
1.    Solid Waste Management Project: Final Section Analvsis and Preliminary
Engineering Report, Volume IV: Yiclhang (DHV Consultants 13V. larch 1'995).
Other Documents
1.    Land Acquisition, Removal, Resettlement Action Plan (The Second I larbour
Engineering Investigators and Design Institute of the Ministry of Comm11uLnication.
November, 1995)
2.    Environmental Improvement Action Plan.  (Hubei Provincial Environnicntal
Protection Bureau, October, 1995)
3.    Appraisal Manual for Industrial Credit Projects, Vol. I & 11. Annexes. China
Investment Bank (the appraisal manual adopted for the industrial pollution conttol
line of credit).
4.    Terms of Reference: (Hubei Urban Environmental Project Office)
Package A
Package B






IBRD 27175
.  SZr w i.-. _. I\                                           HUBEI PROVINCE
CHINA                                            -          '                <                                           j .>                     Location of Project Cities
HUBEI URBAN                                                N -                                                                                        xiangfan-                                   K 5 
ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT                                                                         j-  tZ                                                                                   \  HENAN
o   Prefecdure Headquoaers                                 -   K   t        \   -       '       _'  / I
    Promince Caprhol                                     _, '"-                       '        '"       w      SICHUAN                                                                          <
t   Notronal Capitol                                                     r-q ,                                         Jo,                                                Sujhon 
Prefecture Boundores                              s4                                                                                    \Yihang                         WuhY               (
~~j--2  t  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                               Shasta                *'-  ~~~~~~~~~~Echereg
-  - Province Boundaries                                                                                                     Esh, 3                       Shash           Sor SitU27250 cualshI
-     - lnterno,ahnol sounoorrANes                                      J           A         r                                                            N                 7                  . r
a
The.ooodur,rs.roorsdenorr,rorwrs orov  or,. ,Do=.i                                         ,                 ' 2                     . X        '             > i<>*                   Wenqoanzhen
shonooor Ihssmp dp nlo,piph or e pc tofheoo no.u 6.Gio=u                            __   /    .CAwa/c.wz                                                                    t  '-.
,h  h.  P .- -h .  .p.  -75       6- -G,-                                                                                                                                                -
ocr rudgmer on Ie egot       e'o- r rj-. of =y ...                                                                                                     HU   I
o5 ceotanoe of such bo..do.r es                                            Cr-'Q                                                                       t-HUNAN
z E-   Jr                                                                 a_, . n_ wn=f e nr/y ro'SRQrO mupr enrb'- \ -   JIANGXI
XIANGFAN
ProposediSewers
-    Second Stage Proposed Separate Sewers                            Selected Roads
|.     -' \   ' ,.r i=,:                     Proposed interceptron Points                                        Areas
r~  orJ ae                     \. .(' 9 ;->                         &    Proposed Pumping Stations
,            /   -                           , ,j.    ,                                    .                 I /   i                                   ,, -  P-.-d
Tooncftengsftoo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ro
Tuanchergshan                           C                                                                                                L1                   t      //                 fghefio. PS,.<
N   \  /    Cfen;aowon                                     s  ~;_  ,1?-~-stnc                               eng
HUANGSHI                                                                                                                               Trew,erKL
Proposed  E.,stpg
-  -         I~~~nterceptor Sewers
\9    L,ft Stafotis
Zh'akor.
0   800  bOO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-caral                                                                  I     
Meters                                                                                            O
Sc ected Roads                                    Kilometers                    g otgheng
1/113/1995 fiEL-li]                 cob     s       T B ant






IBRD 27250
CHINA                                                                                                         WUHAN
HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT                                                                        Proposed: Existing
0   Prefecure Heodquoiers                                                                         Sewers                                          Canals
D   Province Copiol                                                            6j    Lift Stations                                        -        Selected Roads
S   National Caplral
Prefe   oriotreo   o uIa                                                                       Wastewater Treatment Plants                    Urban Areas
Pre-due Boundaries
-  -Protlnce Boundories
--- International B0undor es                                                                              --CS> _j.t j- 
-f,Q                                                                       A:                           I/''(                                     ::
j-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-,-u~~~~~~~s ~~Wuhan 
.-J___   J  |     ;,f-  /(_    O       The b-ond.-, ,olo.s. d--onnor,n-         Proae t A
,) 9~~~~<>fS J <_~~~~~ rmodonot-ply. - h. p.,a j5                                  \ankou  /- - 
t 5 ~~~~~~~~~r s ~~~~on  ire legoi Irasis ol ony rernitory, or    fA    \_
Tn, Wendorr,n orA GCCeP,OC -,,.tg-
-           -~~~          noi,,roor     -er-es-
HUBEI PROVINCE 
N SHAANXI   j           Shryon          Location of Project Cities
[ <  Xiongfon~"t' ! X X vr X X o4 n-g-f-(
6S iBRD 27173  \    HENAN    )Hnya                                                                                                  .
SICHUAN
-  -'- 5-Jr *nt* yn- \%    9 shl                                          r--C             ,=Suzh- Long7vo ngzu
0 
] /                      >                        2 .) q Wenqoan-hen -'.
%/   *rvw ordfiiirn e- ' IBR    -/         JIANGXJ        '
11 13/1995 D rmc        *23I4ICb    i        351TRmF









:



