Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2799-CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Hubei Urban Environmental Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 31, 1996
Credit Number 2799-CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 31, 1996, between  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to one hundred twenty-five million dollars 
($125,000,000) (the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the credit provided for in this Agreement (the Credit) be disbursed on 
account of expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds 
of the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
(D)
Hubei Province (Hubei) shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project 
to be carried out, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to Hubei the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, 
the Bank and Hubei;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member of 
the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Basic Documents" means the charters and business licenses referred to in 
paragraphs (k), (ii), and (ll) of this Section.
(b)
"Beneficiary" means any Industrial Enterprise or Participating 
Enterprise.
(c)
"Category" means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
(d)
"Environmental Action Plans", means collectively the Hubei Environmental 
Impact Assessment, the Sub-project EAPs, and the environmental assessment referred to 
in Part F of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(e)
"Environmental Financial Agency Agreement," means the agreement to be 
entered into between Hubei and a commercial bank in pursuance of paragraph 2 (b) (ii) 
of Part G of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(f)
"Environmental Pollution Control Sub-loan" means a loan made, or proposed 
to be made by Hubei, out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or the Loan, to a 
Participating Enterprise for an Environmental Pollution Control Sub-project.
(g)
"Environmental Improvement Action Plan" means Hubei's environmental 
improvement action plan, as submitted to the Association under cover of a letter dated 
October 10, 1995, designed to improve environmental quality management, monitoring and 
pollution control through the strengthening of
HEPB and the carrying out of environmental research and training programs in Hubei.
(h)
"Environmental Pollution Control Sub-project" means a specific 
development project under Part F of the Project to be carried out by a Participating 
Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of an Environmental Pollution Control Sub-loan.
(i)
"Financial Agency Agreement" means individually any of the agreements to 
be entered into between Hubei and a commercial bank, in pursuance of paragraph 2(b) of 
Page  3
Part G of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and "Financial Agency Agreements" means 
collectively the agreements to be entered into between Hubei and commercial banks, in 
pursuance of said paragraph 2 (b).
(j)
"HEPB" means Hubei's bureau responsible for environmental protection.
 
(k)
"HMDC" means the Huangshi Municipal Drainage Company, a state-owned 
enterprise established and operating pursuant to its Charter dated January 8, 1994 and 
to Business License No. 17843015-5-1 dated April 11, 1994, issued by Huangshi Bureau 
of Commerce and Industry.
(l)
"Huangshi" means Huangshi Municipality in Hubei.
 
(m)
"Hubei" means Hubei Province, a political subdivision of the Borrower.
 
(n)
"Hubei Environmental Impact Assessment" means the environmental impact 
assessment, approved by Hubei's Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau on May 26, 
1995, and includes environmental mitigation measures and as well as the administrative 
and monitoring arrangements ensuring  the implementation of said measures.
(o)
"Hubei Resettlement Action Plan" means Hubei's land acquisition, removal 
and resettlement plan, as submitted to the Association under cover of a letter dated 
November 3, 1995, and includes the procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement 
and compensation, as well as the reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure 
compliance with the said plan;
(p)
"Industrial Enterprise" means an enterprise to which Hubei proposes to 
make, or has made, an Industrial Pollution Control Sub-loan.
(q)
"Industrial Financial Agency Agreement", means the agreement to be 
entered into between Hubei and a commercial bank in pursuance of paragraph 2 (b) (i) 
of Part G of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
(r)
"Industrial Pollution Control Sub-loan" means a loan made, or proposed to 
be made by Hubei, out of the proceeds of the Credit and/or of the Loan, to an 
Industrial Enterprise for an Industrial Pollution Control Sub-project.
(s)
"Industrial Pollution Control Sub-project" means a specific development 
project under Part E of the Project to be carried out by an Industrial Enterprise 
utilizing the proceeds of an Industrial Pollution Control Sub-loan.
(t)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(u)
"Operational Manual" means the manual referred to in Part G.1 (b) (i) of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(v)
"Participating Enterprise" means an enterprise to which Hubei proposes to 
make, or has made, an Environmental Pollution Control Sub-loan.
(w)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Association, the Bank 
and Hubei of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(x)
"Project Municipalities" means, collectively, Huangshi, Wuhan, Xiangfan 
and Yichang; and "Project Municipality" means any of the Project Municipalities.
(y)
"Resettlement Action Plans" means, collectively, the Hubei Resettlement 
Action Plan, the Sub-project RAPs and the resettlement action plan referred to in Part 
F of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; 
(z)
"Respective Wastewater Enterprise" means, in respect of:
 
(i)
Huangshi, HMDC;
Page  4
(ii)
Wuhan, WMWE; and
 
(iii)
Xiangfan, XMSC.
 
(aa)
"Respective Part of the Project" means, the part of the Project specified 
below:
(i)
for HMDC, Part A(1);
 
(ii)
for Huangshi, Part A(2);
 
(iii)
for Hubei, Parts E, F, G, and H;
 
(iv)
for Wuhan, Parts B(2) and B(3);
 
(v)
for WMWE, Part B(1);
 
(vi)
for Xiangfan, Part C(2);
 
(vii)
for XMSC, Part C(1); and
 
(viii) for Yichang, Part D.
 
(bb)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(cc)
"Sub-loan" means individually any Industrial Pollution Control Sub-loan 
or Environmental Pollution Control Sub-loan, and "Sub-loans" means collectively 
Individual Pollution Control Sub-loans and Environmental Pollution Control Sub-loans.
(dd)
"Sub-project" means individually any Environmental Pollution Control 
Sub-project or Industrial Pollution Control Sub-project, and "Sub-projects" means 
collectively Environmental Pollution Control Sub-projects and Industrial Pollution 
Control Sub-projects;
(ee)
"Sub-project EAP" means any environmental action plan prepared in 
pursuance of paragraph 2 (c) of Part B of Schedule 4 to the Project Agreement.
(ff)
"Sub-project RAP" means any resettlement action plan prepared pursuant to 
paragraph 2 (d) of Part B of Schedule 4 to the Project Agreement.
(gg)
"Wastewater Enterprises" means, collectively, HMDC, WMWE and XMSC; and 
"Wastewater Enterprise" means any of the Wastewater Enterprises.
(hh)
"Wastewater Enterprise Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means, collectively, 
the agreements to be entered into between each Project Municipality (excluding 
Yichang) and its Respective Wastewater Enterprise pursuant to Part D.1 of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes any schedules to said agreements; and "Wastewater Enterprise Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement" means, individually, any of the Wastewater Enterprise Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements.
(ii)
"WMWE" means the Wuhan Municipal Wastewater Enterprise, a state-owned 
enterprise established and operating pursuant to its Charter of May 1995 and to 
Business License No. 30020791-9-01 dated September 6, 1995 issued by Wuhan Bureau of 
Commerce and Industry.
(jj)
"Wuhan" means Wuhan Municipality in Hubei. 
 
(kk)
"Xiangfan" means Xiangfan Municipality in Hubei.
 
(ll)
"XMSC" means the Xiangfan Municipal Sewerage Company, a state-owned 
enterprise established and operating pursuant to its Charter approved by Xiangfan 
municipal construction commission document No. 3 of 1994 and to Business License No. 
17939657-7 dated August 21, 1995 issued by Xiangfan Bureau of Commerce and Industry.
Page  5
(mm)
"Yichang" means Yichang Municipality in Hubei.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixteen million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR16,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a financial institution acceptable to the 
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue:
 
(i)
from the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the 
accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the 
Credit Account or 
canceled; and
(ii)
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date or at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of 
June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next 
payment date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
 
(i)
at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
 
(ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; 
and
 
(iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and  July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
Page  6
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 1 and July 1 commencing January 1, 2006, and ending July 1, 2030. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 1, 2015 shall be one and 
one-fourth per cent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:
 
(i)
the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as determined by 
the Association, 
shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and
(ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association 
may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after 
due consideration by them of the development of the 
Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the 
Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, 
the Association may revise such 
modification to include, 
in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant 
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
 
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Hubei to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Hubei therein set forth, shall take and 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Hubei to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to Hubei the proceeds of the Credit on 
the following principal terms:
(i)
the principal amount so made available to Hubei:
 
(A)
shall be the equivalent in terms of Special Drawing Rights 
(on the date, or
respective dates, of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of 
the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn; and
 
(B)
shall be repaid in foreign currency in amounts equivalent 
(as of the date, 
or respective dates, of repayment) to 
the amount in Special Drawing Rights 
so made available;
 
(ii)
the Borrower shall recover such principal amount over a period of 
twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years;
Page  7
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge a service charge on such principal 
amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) 
per annum; and
 
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge a commitment charge on such principal 
amount not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) 
per annum.
 
(c)
The Borrower shall make available to Hubei the proceeds of the Loan on 
the following principal terms:
(i)
the principal amount so made available to Hubei:
 
(A)
shall be the equivalent in terms of dollars (on the date, or 
respective 
dates, of withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn; and
 
(B)
shall be repaid in a foreign currency in amounts equivalent 
(as of the date, 
or respective dates, of repayment) to the 
amount in dollars so made 
available.
 
(ii)
the Borrower shall recover such principal amount over a period of 
twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years;
 
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge interest on such principal amount 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate 
equal to the rate of interest applicable 
from time to time to 
the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement; and
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge a commitment charge on such principal 
amount not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum.
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that Hubei shall 
carry the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of 
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively), in 
respect of the Project, or cause said obligations to be carried out, pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  8
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the report 
of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested, including 
a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Hubei shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Hubei will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
Any of the parties to a Financial Agency Agreement or any of the parties 
to any of the Wastewater Enterprise Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have failed to 
perform any of its respective obligations thereunder.
(d)
The Basic Documents shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of any of the 
Wastewater Enterprises to perform any of its respective obligations under its 
respective Wastewater Enterprise Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower, Hubei or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall 
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of the Wastewater 
Enterprises or for the suspension of such entity's operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Wastewater Enterprise Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed 
Page  9
on behalf of each of the parties thereto;
(b)
the wastewater tariff of  0.18 yuan/m3 applicable to all residential and 
non-residential wastewater producers within the service areas of HMDC, WMWE and XMSC 
shall have been implemented; and
(c)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement have 
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Hubei, 
and is legally binding upon Hubei in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that each of the Wastewater Enterprise Subsidiary Loan Agreements has 
been duly authorized or ratified by each of the parties thereto and is legally binding 
upon said parties in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  10
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                Amount of the    Amount of the
              Credit Allocated  Loan Allocated          % of
                (Expressed in    (Expressed in      Expenditures
Category       SDR Equivalent)  Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
1. Works                                            40%
   (a) Works for Part C.2              800,000
       of the Project
   (b) other works    3,360,000     35,400,000
2. Goods                                            100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures, 100%
   (a) under Part E of3,360,000     40,000,000      of local expendi-
       the Project                                  tures (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 75% of
   (b) under Part F                                 local expenditures
       of the Project                3,360,000      for other items
                                                    procured locally
   (c) other goods    4,030,000     36,800,000
3. Consultants'       2,690,000      7,000,000      100%
   Services and
   Training
4. Unallocated        _________      5,000,000
   TOTAL             16,800,000    125,000,000
                     ==========    ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
Page  11
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed seven million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,000,000), may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1995;
(b)
under Category 1 (a), until Xiangfan shall have furnished to the 
Association the feasibility studies, designs, environmental assessment and 
resettlement action plan in accordance with Part F of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement;
(c)
under Category (2)(a):
 
(i)
until the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
acceptance of 
evidence that the Industrial Financial Agency 
Agreement has been executed on behalf 
of the parties thereto and is 
legally binding upon said parties in accordance with 
its terms; and
 
(ii)
in respect of an Industrial Pollution Control Sub-loan unless the 
Industrial 
Pollution Control Sub-loan has been made in 
accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Project 
Agreement;
(d)
under Category (2)(b):
 
(i)
until the Association shall have approved the Operational Manual;
 
(ii)
until the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
acceptance of 
evidence that the Environmental Financial 
Agency Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the parties 
thereto and is legally binding upon said parties in 
accordance with its terms; and
(iii)
in respect of an Environmental Pollution Control Sub-loan unless 
the Environmental
Pollution Control Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the 
Operational Manual 
and the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Project 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
for works under contracts costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent each;
 
(b)
for goods under contracts costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent each;
 
(c)
for consultants' services under contracts awarded to consulting firms and 
costing less than $100,000 each;
(d)
for consultants' services under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants and costing less than $50,000 each; and
(e)
for training, regardless of the cost thereof, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
1.
The objectives of the Project, which is part of Hubei's longer term 
environmental improvement program, are to improve environmental management and 
Page  12
conditions in Hubei through the:
(a)
establishment of institutions and policies for the purpose of sustaining 
progress on environmental improvement in Hubei;
(b)
improvement of municipal wastewater collection and treatment;
 
(c)
improvement of municipal wastes management; and
 
(d)
reduction of the pollution caused by the highest impact industrial air 
and water polluters.
2.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Huangshi
 
1.
Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
 
Design and construction of a wastewater collection and treatment facility in the 
Chenjiawan area of Huangshi designed to reduce polluting discharges into the Cihu 
Lake, including sewers, secondary sewers, and a preliminary treatment plant and 
pumping stations.
2.
Wastes Management
 
Design and construction of stations in Huangshi for the transfer of municipal 
solid waste; provision of compactor collection vehicles for delivery of such waste to 
landfill sites; construction of a sanitary landfill, including gas and leachate 
treatment systems, access road and office and maintenance facilities and provision of 
a weighbridge, compactor and vehicles; and provision of training and technical 
assistance to strengthen Huangshi's capabilities in respect of solid waste management; 
and provision of vacuum trucks for nightsoil and sludge collection.
Part B:
Wuhan
 
1.
Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
 
Design and construction of wastewater collection and treatment facilities in the 
Wuchang, Hankou and Hanyang areas of Wuhan, designed to reduce polluting discharges 
into Wuhan's lakes and rivers, including sewers, force mains, culverts, canals, 
preliminary and primary treatment plants, effluent
disposal facilities, pumping stations, control gates, sedimentation facilities and 
outlets.
2.
Wastes Management
 
Provision of compactor collection vehicles for delivery of Wuhan's solid waste 
to landfill sites; design and construction of an upgraded and expanded sanitary 
landfill, including gas and leachate treatment systems, office and maintenance 
facilities and provision of a weighbridge, compactors, vehicles and equipment; and 
provision of training and technical assistance to strengthen Wuhan's capabilities in 
respect of solid waste management.
3.
Water Quality Monitoring
 
Upgrading of the capabilities of Wuhan's environmental monitoring center, 
including, laboratory renovation, the provision of water quality monitoring equipment, 
data management equipment and training to staff of said center.
Part C:
Xiangfan
 
1.
Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal
 
Design and construction of wastewater collection and treatment facilities in the 
Fancheng area of Xiangfan, designed to reduce polluting discharges into the Qiliuhe, 
Page  13
Xiaoqing and Han rivers, including sewers, force mains, culverts, a preliminary 
treatment plant, outfall, a pumping station and access bridge.
2.
Wastes Management
 
Design and construction of transfer stations and a sanitary landfill in 
Xiangfan, including gas and leachate treatment systems, site offices, a weighbridge, 
maintenance facilities and an access road and provision of compactors, vehicles and 
equipment; and provision of training and technical assistance to strengthen Xiangfan's 
capabilities in respect of solid waste management; and provision of vacuum trucks for 
nightsoil and sludge collection.
Part D:
Yichang
 
Wastes Management
Design and construction of a sanitary landfill in Yichang, including gas and 
leachate treatment systems, site offices, a weighbridge, maintenance facilities, an 
access road, compactors, and provision of vehicles and equipment; and provision of 
training and technical assistance to strengthen Yichang's capabilities in respect of 
solid waste management; and provision of vacuum trucks for nightsoil and sludge 
collection.
Part E:
Industrial Pollution Control Sub-projects
 
The financing, through the provision of Industrial Pollution Control Sub-loans, 
by Hubei, of specific development projects to upgrade the facilities and strengthen 
the operations of industrial enterprises so as to reduce polluting discharges by said 
enterprises.
Part F:
Hubei Environmental Pollution Control Fund
 
The operation by Hubei of a revolving credit facility for the financing, through 
the provision of Environmental Pollution Control Sub-loans, of specific development 
projects to upgrade in-plant technology processes of enterprises designed to reduce 
polluting discharges by said enterprises.
Part G:
Hubei Water Quality Monitoring
 
Upgrading of the capabilities of Hubei's provincial-level environmental 
monitoring center, including laboratory renovation, the provision of water quality 
monitoring equipment and data management equipment, and training to staff of said 
center.
Part H:
Provincial Institutional Development
 
1.
Strengthening the institutional capabilities of Hubei and those of the Project 
Municipalities in respect of environmental management, through:
(a)
development and introduction of cost accounting and management 
information systems, and provision of related training to strengthen the financial 
management of, and policy-making in respect of, wastewater, and wastes management 
activities in Hubei; and development and implementation of a program of technical 
assistance to strengthen Hubei's institutional capabilities in respect of general 
financial management;
(b)
training in management and supervision of Project implementation, 
including quality inspection of materials, product technology, wastewater treatment 
plant and solid waste management operations, construction management and planning and 
analysis;
(c)
implementation of the Environmental Improvement Action Plan; and
 
(d)
undertaking feasibility studies for future projects in Hubei in 
environmental management.
*           *           *          *          *
Page  14
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
The term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 3.
 
(b)
The term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) 
of Part D of Schedule 4 to the Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special 
Account before the
Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect 
thereof.  Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if 
the Association shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals.
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $25,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be madeexclusively for eligible 
expenditures in  accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account or the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and 
deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
Page  15
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions applicable thereto;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the applicable General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
respective General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for 
the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or
 
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association:
 
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, 
refund to the Association or the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Association shall otherwise
 agree, no further deposit by the Association 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
Page  16
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable 
thereto.
