Page  1
The World Bank 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
Ms. Zou Jiayi 
Acting Director General 
International Department 
Ministry of Finance 
Sanlihe, Beijing 
People's Republic of China 
Dear Ms. Zou: 
1818 H S
treet N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
U.S.A. 
(202)477
-
1234
 
Cable Address: INTBAFRAD 
Cable Address: INDEVAS 
CONFORMED COPY 
June 19, 2002 
Re: Hubei Urban Environment Project (CR 2799 CHA and LN 3966 CHA) 
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement and Extension of Closing of 
Closing Date on the Credit and the Loan
1. I refer to (i) the Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic of China (the Borrower) 
and the International Development Association (the Association), dated January 31, 1996 (the Development 
Credit Agreement); and (ii) to the Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), dated Janaury 31, 1996 (the Loan Agreement, pursuant to both 
of which the Association agreed to extend to the Borrower a credit (the Credit) and a loan (the Loan) to assist 
in the financing of the Hubei Urban Environmental Project (the Project). I further refer to a letter dated 
August 7, 2001 from the Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Borrower, requesting the utilization of Project 
cost savings to expand the wastewater collection and treatment works, and the solid waste management in 
certain Project Municipalities, and further requesting an extension of the closing date. 
 
2. I am pleased to inform you that the Association and the Bank concur with the Borrower's proposals. To 
give effect thereto, the Association agrees to amend the Development Credit Agreement as hereinafter 
provided. 
 
3. 
Sections 1.02(n) and 1.02(o) are amended to read as follows: 
 
"(n) "Hubei Environmental Impact Assessment" means, collectively, (i) the environmental 
impact assessment approved by Hubei's Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau on May 26, 
1995, and (ii) the supplemental environmental impact assessment approved by Hubei's Provincial 
Environmental Protection Bureau in [March 2002], which include environmental mitigation 
measures as well as the administrative and monitoring arrangements ensuring the implementation of 
said measures." 
 
"(o) "Hubei Resettlement Action Plan" means, collectively, (i) Hubei's land acquisition, removal and 
resettlement plan, as submitted to the Association under cover of a letter dated November 3, 1995, 
and (ii) the supplemental Resettlement Action 
Plan dated February 2002, 
which include the 
procedures governing land acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as the 
reporting and monitoring arrangements to ensure compliance with the said Plan." 
 
Page  2
Ms. Zou Jiayi 
2  
June 19, 2002 
 
4.  
The Association and the Bank further establish June 30, 2004 as the later date for purposes 
of, respectively, Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.03 of the Loan 
Agreement. 
 
5.  
Please confirm the agreement of the Borrower to the amendment set forth in paragraphs 3 
above by countersigning and dating the corresponding form of confirmation set forth below, and 
returning one fully signed original of this amendment letter to us. One fully signed original should 
be retained by the Borrower. 
 
6.  
Except as specifically amended hereby, all other provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement and the Loan Agreement remain in full force and effect. Upon receipt by the Association 
of the copy of this letter of amendment duly countersigned by the authorized representative of the 
Borrower, the above amendment shall become effective as of the date of 
countersignature of this letter of amendment. 
,3 
Sincerely, 
 
/S/ Dheepak Bhattasali 
 
Yukon Huang 
Country Director 
&
Chief of Mission 
 
CONFIRMED PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By: Rui Yuehua 
Title: Deputy Director General  
Date: June 25, 2002
 
WB02139 
N:\MOESUHUBEMubeiUrbEnv-DCA-amdt l .doc 
June 19, 2002 12:21 PM 
