RESTRICTED
Rep    No.   TO-673a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it -be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
October 22, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY QUIVALENTS
Currency unit - Burundi franc (BFU)
US$ 1         - BFU 87.50
BFU 1         = Us$ 0.01143
BFU 1 million - Us$ 11,429
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kg     - 1,000 gram
- 2.2046 lb
1 m ton  = 1,000 kg
= 2,204.7 lb
= o.9842 lg ton
1 ha     = 2.4711 ac
1 km     = 0.6214 mi
1 km2      0.3861 sq mi
Abbreviations used in the Report
ACB          - Association of Burundian Merchants
CPF          - Coffee Prcmotion Fund
CPSF         - Coffee Price Stabilization Fund
IO0          - International Coffee Organization
ISABU        - Institut des Sciences Agroncmiques du Burundi
(Agricultural Research Institute)
OCIBU        - Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi
(Agency for Industrial Crops)
PD           - Project Department of OCIEU
PMEA         - IBRD Penranent Mission in East Africa



BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY
I.      INTRODUCTION ......................................           1
II.     BACKGROUND .............................................      1
A. General ...........                                        1
B.    Coffee Sector ................................          2
C.   Development Prospects ........................           5
III.    THE PROJECT AREA ... ... . ...    . ...                       5
IV.     THE PROJECT .....................................             7
A.    Project Description ......     .................        7
B.    Project Schedule .......     ......................    10
C.    Cost Estimates ........     .......................    10
D.    Financing ...      .................................   11
V.      ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......        .................  13
A.    Project Management ...........................         13
B.   Ace.ounts and Audit .       ..........................  14
C.    Staff .................     .......................    i4
VI.     YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM
INCOME ...........................................       15
A.    Yields and Project Production ..        ..............  15
B.   Market Prospects and Prices           ..................  17
C.   Farm Income ...........       .......................   17
VII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION      .17
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..18
This report is based on the findings of a mission in March 1968 to Burundi,
composed of Messrs. von Gontard, Adams, Reutlinger (IDA) and Mr. Henderson
(of PMEA).



ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Development Projects
2.   Coffee Exports, Grades and Prices
3.   OCIBU
4.   Proposed Improvement Measures
5.   Project Organization
6.   Development Schedule, Staff Requirements, Costs and Benefits
MAPS
1.   Location of Project Area
2.   Project Area
3.   Areas of Coffee Cultivation



BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVS4ENT PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Burundi has applied for an IDA credit to help
finance the improvement of productivity of about seven million existing
arabica coffee trees cultivated by about 44,000 smallholders on 4,400 ha in
the center of Ngozi province. There are no large holdings in the area. A
typical smallholder has an average holding of 0.6-0.7 ha of which about 0.1
ha is planted with coffee.
ii.       Almost Burundi's entire active population is engaged in agriculture
and about 60 percent of total GDP is subsistence production. Per capita GDP
is low at US$ 50 - 60, of which more than half is subsistence consumption.
Coffee, the only cash crop for about 300,000 farm families (cultivating about
41 million coffee trees), occupies an important position in the economy con-
tributing 15 to 20 percent of monetary GDP and 80 to 85 percent of exports.
Coffee exports have remained consistently 30 percent below the marketing
quota allocated to Burundi by the International Coffee Organization. In-
creased production resulting from the project can be accomnodated within
this quota and therefore no marketing problems would arise.
iii.      The project consists of a package to imnrove coffee husbandry and
processing including technical assistance for training Burundian extension
staff, production requisites, and improvement of infrastructure and process-
ing facilities. The proposed measures would introduce essential techniques
and provide for inputs of proven value.  Emnhasis would be laid on mobiliz-
ing farmers' own efforts to the extent possible. Tmhe project would be
managed by the Agency for Industrial Crops.
iv.       The project would be completed in five years at a total cost of
about US$ 2.1 million of which 62 percent or USt 1.32 million is the esti-
mated foreign exchange component. At full development, the yield of about
seven million coffee trees is expeuted to increase by about 70 percent over
current levels, increasing Burundi's exportable coffee by about 1,580 tons,
and earning about US$ 1.3 million in foreign exchange annually.
v.        The project would add about 1.5 percent to current total monetary
GDP and five percent to present monetary GDP earned in agriculture. Farmers'
net cash return would increase by over 70 percent, on average. The internal
rate of return to the economy from measurable project benefits would be about
32 percent. If only 70 percent of the anticipated annual gross benefits are
realized, the rate of return would be 21 percent. Due to the expected
spread of improved coffee husbandry to other coffee areas, there would be con-
sequent increases in production and additional benefits.
vi.       The project would make a substantial contribution to the develop-
ment of Burundi's agricultural sector, and would be suitable for an IDA
credit of USA 1.8 million.



BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Burundi has requested an IDA credit to help
finance the improvement of existing arabica coffee cultivated by small-
holders in Ngozi province, some 100 km northeast of Bujumbura.   Coffee is
the principal cash crop of the economy. Improvement of the productivity of
existing coffee which has been mainly planted after 1948 and coffee quality
affords an immediate opportunity for economic expansion.
1.02      Coffee cultivation in Burundi is an integral part of the tradi-
tional smallholder's sector which is basically subsistenqe oriented. Coffee
is the only source of cash income for the majority of smallholders living
in areas suitable for coffee cultivation.   The proposed improvement of
coffee productivity would increase farm income and facilitate farmers'
transformation from subsistence to cash oriented producers.
1.03      Successful improvement resulting in better coffee yield and
quality depends on good coffee husbandry and processing. Coffee farmers
would have to improve current cultivation and processing practices. This
would be a complex task demanding a massive extension effort in farmers'
training and a fairly high degree of supervision. Those improvements are
clearly beyond the scope of the present extension services. Consequently,
emphasis would be laid in the project on training Burundian extension staff
specialized in coffee cultivation and processing. Initially expatriate
technical assistance would be needed to bring the necessary expertize to
the proposed project for training of extension staff and project execution.
1.04      Two FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program missions visited Burundi in April
1966 and in July 1967, to help prepare the project submission of the Govern-
ment. An Association mission consisting of Messrs. von Gontard, Adams,
Reutlinger (IDA) and Henderson (of PMEA) visited Burundi in March 1968 to
appraise the project. This report is based on the findings of this mission
and has been prepared mainly by Mr. von Gontard.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Burundi, a small land-locked country of about 28,000 km2 (see
Map 1), gained independence in union with Rwanda in 1962. Both countries
were formerly a Trusteeship Territory administered by Belgium. In 1964 the
union split, and Burundi obtained nationhood. Most of the country comprises
a hilly plateau averaging about 1500 m in altitude, To the east, the plateau
slopes gradually down to Tanzania, to the west, abruptly into the Rift
Valley. The capital, Bujumbura, lies in the Rift Valley at the northern
tip of Lake Tanganyika. Climate is equatorial, tempered by altitude.
Population, about 3.2 million, is distributed throughout the countryside,
and less than three percent live in organized settlements. Bujumbura is
the largest with 70,000 inhabitants.



- 2 -
2.02      Almost all the active population is engaged in agriculture, and
about 60 percent of total GDP is subsistence production. Per capita GDP
is low, estimated currently at US$ 50 - 60. In particular the economy is
characterized by low cash incomes and a consequent lack of demand for con-
sumer goods; difficult access to export markets; and low levels of education,
skills and enterpreneurship. A number of development projects are being
implemented. These are mainly concerned with the development of infra-
structure, and the diversification of agricultural production. Since these
are still in initial stages of development their benefits are yet to be
felt (see Annex 1).
B. Coffee Sector
2.03      Coffee is the principal cash crop of the economy.   About 15 to 20
percent of monetary GDP comes directly from the coffee crop. Coffee accounts
for S0 to 85 percent of total exnort earnings, and is thus of key importance
to the balance of payments. The balance of payments has shown a 10 percent
deficit for some years. Coffee export duties also account for 12 percent of
Government tax revenues. Being the princioal cash crop, coffee production
accounts for most of the activities in the monetary sector.
2.o4      Almost all the coffee, totalling about 41 million trees, is of the
arabica type, produced by about 300,000 smallholder families, and is nurchased,
cured, and exported by private traders. In the past, standards of cultivation
and processing were vigorously supervised by the Belgian Administration. Since
independence, however, the level of supervision has been relaxed and has re-
sulted in fluctuating coffee production and exports, and declining quality
(see Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2).
Coffee Quota
2.05      Burundi is a member of the International Coffee Organization (ICO)
and its coffee exports are thus subject to ICO quota. The basic quota fixed
for Burundi in the new Coffee Agreement 1968-1973 is 13,980 tons. However,
under the provisions of the Agreement the level of Burundi's annual exnort
entitlements can be set as though its basic quota were 21,000 tons instead of
13,980 tons, provided that Burundi can show acceptable evidence of an export-
able production larger than 13,980 tons.   In recent years Burundi's coffee
exports have averaged 16,000 tons. Even assuming, therefore, that for the
duration of the new Agreement (i.e., up to 1973) the annual export entitle-
ments of all member countries will gradually increase but still remain below
the full amount of their basic quotas, Burundi will be able to increase its
annual exports by as much as 5,000-6,000 tons and still remain within the
Agreement's quota limitations.   The ICO Secretariat has been kept informed of
the details of the proposed project and since potential production increases
would not raise Burundi's exports beyond the levels permitted under the new
Agreement, has indicated that it expects no objections to this project from
the member countries of the Agreement.



-3-
Extension and Research
2.o6      Government assistance to coffee growers is provided by the general
extension service of the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, and
the Agency for Industrial Crops Burundi (OCIBU) 1/, (see Annex 3).   OCIBU is
an autonomous government agency, governed by a Board of Directors which is
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry. Until recently,
OCIBU's main function in the coffee sector was to control the quality of
exvort coffee; its other major activities, the maintenance of communal
pulping centers 2/, the organization of coffee pest control camnnaians, and
advising Government on general coffee policy, in particular, producer prices.
Recently OCIBU has taken over similar responsibilities for tea and cotton.
With implementation of the proposed project, OCIBU's role would be extended
to providing participating smallholders with advice, inputs and supervision.
Coffee research is carried out by the Agricultural Research Institute
(ISABU) 3/. ISABU operates four research stations, and is governed in the
same manner as OCIBU. Both institutions rely heavily on expatriate staff.
Six out of fifteen of OCIBU's professional staff, including the accountant,
are expatriate, as are all ISABU professional personnel.
Coffee Prices and Marketing
2.07      The average producer price for parchment coffee is estimated and
fixed each year in advance of the coffee campaign by Government in consulta-
tion with OCIBU and the Central Bank. The estimate is based on the previous
season's export price, prevailing world prices and government budgetary re-
quirements. Care is taken that the producer price is adequate to aIlow a
reasonable return to farmers. The latter received on average 67 percent of
the value of their coffee, FOB Dar-es-Salaam, in recent years. This is
satisfactory. Government levies an export duty between 15-16 percent of
FOB value; and OCIBU collects an export tax to support its routine coffee
activities, and a coffee promotion tax. These were about four percent of
FOB value in 1965. Annex 2, Table 3, shows the method of estimating annual
producer prices.
2.08      A Coffee Price Stabilization Fund (CPSF) and a Coffee Promotion
Fund (CPF) are maintained by OCIBU. Both were built up prior to independence.
No contributions were made to CPSF from coffee revenues in recent years. Be-
cause of Government's policy to maintain high producer prices full collection
of OCIBU taxes was not possible in 1966 and 1967. The CPSF was used instead
of taxes to pay the bulk of OCIBU's operating expenses. The current net
value of CPSF at December 31, 1967 was FBU 43.7 million (USt 0.5 million
equivalent) and more than half of this is payable to OCIBU (see Annex 3,
1/   Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi.
2/   Large numbers of small pulping sheds were established by the Trustee-
shiD Administration for the use of coffee farmers.
3/   Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi.



Tables 1 and 2). Unless producer prices are lowered in future to allow for
an adequate tax collection, CPSF will be exhausted after a further coffee
campaign. Similarly, coffee Dromotion taxes collected by OCIBU have not
been paid to CPF. Its current net value, FBU 11 million (US$ 0.13 million
equivalent), is almost entirely owed by OCIBU. Continued operation of CPF
would depend on continued transfer of coffee promotion taxes.
2.09      OCIBU's current annual operating expenses which are almost entirely
related to coffee amount to about FBU 50 million (US$ 0.57 million equiva-
lent; see Annex 3, Table 2). Assuming an average annual production of 16,000
tons of exportable coffee, and constant export prices, tax revenues of 3-4
percent of FOB value would be needed to support OCIBU's routine activities
in the coffee sector. This is approximately the rate collected prior to
1966. Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiation that
producer coffee prices would be fixed annually so as to enable OCIBU to re-
cover from taxes its future operating expenditure related to routine activi-
ties in the coffee sector.
2.10      Marketing is handled by the Drivate sector.   Exporters, all of
whom are based in Bujumbura, buy parchment coffee 1/ through a network of
traders who are licensed to buy at specified markets, on specified days and
during fixed hours. Transactions are in cash at the fixed minimum producer
price for average coffee. Traders obtain a commission of about FBU 1.40
per kg, and few have turnovers of more than 30 tons annually. Traders shin
the parchment coffee to curers who produce and export green coffee. Curers
have excess curing capacity since prior to independence Rwanda coffee was
cured in Bujumbura. All Burundi coffee is exported to the U.S., where low
grades are used for coffee extracts. Attempts to sell on the European
market have failed due to low quality. The latter market prefers a higher
grade coffee than the U.S. market and at present Burundi does not produce
this in sufficient quantity to warrant separate exporting arrangements.
2.11      The Association of Burundian Merchants (ACB) was created with
official support in 1967 to promote the participation of Burundian nationals
in the import and exnort trade.   At present, some 660 ACB members act as
parchment coffee buyers in local markets, and in 1967 handled more than half
of the crop, replacing traders of Greek and Arabic origin. Additionally,
ACB arranged the curing of its members' purchases on contract and exported
the green coffee on its own account. The whole operation was financed by
a loan of FBU 150 million from the National Development Bank. The ACB plans
to extend its operations in 1968.
1/   "Cherry` is the complete fruit of the coffee tree.    It is picked when
it turns red and normally contains two seeds, the "beans".   These are
separately covered by thin membranes, called "silverskins" and parchment-
like shells, enclosed in a thin mucilaginous substance. Immediately
surrounding this is the skin of the fruit. Fruit skin and mucilaginous
substance are removed in the "pulping" process. Pulped coffee in its
parchment shell is called "parchment coffee". The parchment shell
including the silverskin is removed by the "curing process". "Green
coffee" is the commercial produce in the naked bean form before roasting.



C. Development Prospects
2.12      Improvement of the productivity of existing coffee affords an
immediate opportunity for economic exDansion. Burundi's ICO quota allows
an increase in annual exports of 5,000 to 6,000 tons. Production from ex-
isting coffee trees can be significantly increased by introducing improve-
ments in cultural methods and a limited use of imported inputs. Benefits
from the program would begin to develop within 12 months, and yield increases
of coffee trees would level out at their peak after four years as a result
of the proposed basic improvement.
2.13      Other agricultural development programs and projects are described
in Annex 1. The two most significant are an irrigation and drainage project
in the Rift Valley, which involves 5,000 ha, and a project for smallholder
tea development, both financed by the European Development Fund. The gesta-
tion period of both the projects is long and full benefits will not be ob-
tained until the late 1970s. Thus the proposed coffee project is presently
the only one which could make an early contribution to the economic develop-
ment in the agricultural sector.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area comDrises about 600 km in Ngozi province, the
heart of Burundi's coffee growing region (see Map 2), producing currently
about fifteen percent of Burundi's coffee crop. WIith about 250 people per
km2, population pressure is one of the heaviest in Africa. The almost en-
tirely rural Dopulation lives on smallholdings in family enclosures. Ngozi
and Kayanza, the area's administrative and commercial centers are the only
urban areas.
3.02      The project area is a plateau with outcroDping hills and hillocks,
intersected by an extensive system of perennial streams. Altitude varies
from 1,500 m to 2,000 m with some hills rising to 2,500 m. Rainfall averages
between 1,200 to 1,500 mm annually and is fairly well distributed. Soils
are generally deep, friable, well drained, rich in organic matter and, when
not sloping too steeply, are suitable for coffee and most tropical subsis-
tence crops.
3.03      Roads are well developed.   Two all-weather gravelled main roads
cross the project area, and there are a network of secondary and feeder
roads, and an extensive system of coffee tracks running roughly along the
contours or on the ridges. Road maintenance is generally satisfactory.
Tracks and bridges on these, however, maintenance of which is the resnonsi-
bility of the farmers, are often not properly maintained.
3.04      The land close to the farmer's house is permanently cultivated.
Banana is the main crop, and secondary crops include beans, sorghum, maize,
sweet potatoes, and cassava. More distant plots are cultivated for two or
three years, and then fallowed. More prosperous farmers keep cattle which



- b -
are grazed on communal land, generally unsuited for field crops. The aver-
age family holding is o.6 to O.T ha, made up of several plots. Nearly all
farmers grow arabica coffee, on average 160 trees each. Land is communally
owned and farmers have usufruct on a first-tenant basis. These tenancies
are allocated by the local administrations.
3.05      About 44,000 smallholders in the area grow coffee which is their
only source of cash income. All would be included in, and benefit from, the
proDosed project. Half of their seven million coffee trees are planted
along the contour or ridge tracks. Generally the trees are four to five
deep on either side of the track. This system of planting was encouraged,
and in some cases required, by the Trusteeship Administration, which also
organized the construction of the tracks with communal labor. The remaining
coffee is planted on scattered plots. Generally the spacing is regular,
about 1,600 trees per ha. About 80 percent of the existing coffee has been
Dlanted since 1948, and can be expected to continue in economic production
for another 30 years.
3.o6      The coffee trees are usually trained in the multiple-stem system.
Their growth, foliage and general health are satisfactory and compare favor-
ably with coffee elsewhere in East and Central Africa. Weeding and mulching
standards are adequate in holding along well-maintained tracks, but less than
adequate along neglected tracks. Mulching material is available from bananas
and grass. Through the local administration and general extension services
OCIBU supplies pesticides to growers for the control of antestia bugs, 1/
the only pest of importance. The benefits of this campaign are marginal,
however, due to insufficient organization and supervision.
3.07      Two different pruning techniques are used.    Either the removal of
all stems, or the retention of only one stem. Formerly pruning was carried
out on a regional basis under direction of the Administration and the grower's
entire plot was pruned at one time leaving him with a very small crop in the
following two years. Following the decrease in extension service activity
and cessation of enforcement after independence, pruning was generally neg-
lected. Unsatisfactory pruning seems mainly responsible for low and fluc-
tuating coffee yields in the project area.
3.08      Picking and on-farm processing are below the standard required to
fully exploit the quality of coffee. All cherry, including that which is
unripe and over-rire is nicked, hand pulped and washed in small communal
pulping sheds, and then dried by the farmer. There are about 80 pulping
centers in the project area, equipped with concrete washing channels, basins
and one-disc hand pulpers. All these facilities need improvement.
3.09      An agricultural research station, managed by ISABU (see para. 2.06),
is close to the project area at MIurongwe in Gitega province.  It produces
selected coffee seeds and researches on subsistence croDs. Coffee fertilizer
1/   The coffee bug Antestiopsis lineaticollis feeds on soft tissue of coffee
trees, preferably immature berries.   This results in irregularly shaped
beans or no beans at all.



- 7 -
trials on farmers' plots were conducted in the project area from 1962 through
1966, and have established that satisfactory yield increases can be achieved
through better husbandry and that there is an economic response to the apDli-
cation of nitrogen.
3.10      About 115 general agricultural extension staff are employed in
Ngozi province. Of these, 25 have special training in coffee cultivation.
Extension staff are responsible for subsistence crops, coffee husbandry
and animal husbandry, and their du-ties include the distribution of pesti-
cides to growers. The efficiency of coffee extension work has steadily
declined since independence due mainly to a lack of specialized supervision.
In order to better serve coffee farmers, OCIBU posted two agricultural
officers to the area in 1967.   Furthermore, ISABU has operated a well super-
vised fertilizer extension scheme in the project area since 1966.    This,
however, will be discontinued in 1969. Fertilizers and pesticides, provided
by OCIBU, are given free of cost to about 3,000 farmers.
3.11      The project area has been selected since (a) environmentally it is
better suited to coffee cultivation than others, (b) it has the highest con-
centration of coffee small holdings, (see Map 3) and (c) it is the only
coffee area in which fertilizer trials have been carried out for a suffi-
ciently long period to produce meaningful results.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
4.01      The project is the improvement, over a five year period, of coffee
production and quality from about seven million existing coffee trees. These
trees are grow-n on some 4,400 ha and are owned by about 44,000 smallholders.
The project consists of:
(a)  the creation of a specialized department in OCIBU for the
extension of improved coffee production and processing methods;
(b)  the provision of in-service training for Burundian coffee
extension and processing personnel;
(c)  the implementation of a program of fertilizer trials on
farmers coffee plots;
(d)  the provision of farm inputs and tools to participating
farmers;
(e)  the establishment of a fertilizer sales program;
(f)  the construction of four pulping and fermenting factories,
and the improvement of about 80 communal pulping centers;
and



- 8 -
(g) the improvement of about 350 small bridges on existing
coffee tracks.
Extension of ImDroved Coffee Production and Processing Methods
4.02      The production methods extended would be essential techniques of
proven utility - pruning, mulching, pest control, and fertilization which
would be within the competence of all participating farmers. Details of the
methods and the results anticipated from using them are given in Annex 4.
Processing extension would be concerned with the improvement of picking,
pulping and drying. Due to the small size of coffee holdings, their con-
centration and the simplicity of the improvement methods, one farm level
extension worker, moniteur, or assistant moniteur, would be appointed for
each 330 farmers. The extension service would provide in-service training
for its staff.
Fertilizer Trials
4.03      ISABU operated a program of fertilizer trials in Ngozi province
until 1966. It is essential that this program should be re-established to
provide a basis for continuing advice on fertilizer use. Provision has been
made in project costs for making available to ISABU the equipment and mate-
rials for the re-established program.
Farm Inputs and Tools
4.o4      Farmers would not be able to take advantage of extension advice
unless they could obtain necessary inDuts and tools. With present cultiva-
tion Dractices farmers have no cash expenses. However, farmers adopting
the basic improvement measures, (see para. 4.02), would need to spend about
FBU 1,700 (USt 20 equivalent) on inputs and tools in the first year of
initiating imnrovements. Few, if any, could find this amount since it would
represent about 75 percent of their annual cash income from coffee. A credit
program would be impracticable, firstly because of the high overheads of
servicing a very large number of small accounts and secondly, because in the
absence of any agricultural credit organization one would have to be estab-
lished especially for the project.
4.05      In view of these constraints, it would be more practical to pro-
vide inputs and simple tools required for the basic improvement measures
initially to farmers free of charge. These would include:
(a) pesticides for the first five years of project operation;
(b) three booster applications of fertilizer per coffee tree within
the first five project years;
(c)  one set of simple pruning tools, and one drying tray to each
of about 44,000 coffee farmers; and
(d)  a limited number of hand operated pesticides dusters.



- 9 -
The cost of these inputs would be recovered by Government mainly through
resulting increases in tax revenues (see para. 4.15). Increased farm income
would enable coffee farmers to pay the market price for the replacement
of tools after about the fifth year of the improvement program (see Annex
6, Table 6).
Fertilizer Sales Program
4.o6      Through the booster applications of fertilizer included in the
basic improvement, farmers would come to appreciate the benefits from ferti-
lizer and create a demand for them. This demand would be met by a fertilizer
sales program which would be started by OCIBU in the fourth year.   The ferti-
lizer would be distributed through private coffee traders to their farmer
customers. The traders have adequate storage facilities. To promote
regular fertilizer application to coffee after the initiation of the basic
improvement, fertilizer would be sold initially with a subsidy of 66 percent
in project years four through six; in years seven, eight and nine the
subsidy would be reduced to 33 percent, thereafter being removed. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations. The initial subsidy
is justified on the grounds of low farmer cash income and would be recovered
in the same manner as the cost of the inputs and tools provided free of
charge to farmers. It is expected that by year ten about 50 percent of the
farmers in the project area would purchase annually about 500 tons of
fertilizer.
Processing
4.07      Four small pulping, fermenting and drying factories would be
established and operated commerciallv by OCIBU in the project area (see
Annex 4). The output of these, about 400 tons of green coffee annually
after year four, would be of a quality acceptable to the European market.
The profits of these factories would accrue to OCIBU. Eighty communal
pulping centers in the project area would be repaired and improved. In
particular, more individual washing basins would be provided, existing
washing channels would be extended and provision would be made for silt
pits and fruit skin disposal. These improvements would be included in the
project. Maintenance of the centers would continue to be the responsibility
of OCIBU.
Track Improvement
4.o8      Satisfactory repair and maintenance of the coffee tracks is an
essential element of the coffee improvement program. Presently the major
problem is the poor state of a large number of culverts and small bridges.
About 350 small bridges would be reconstructed under the project. Pro-
vision is made in the project cost estimates for supplying construction
materials for this purpose. The work would be done by the coffee farmers
without payments under the supervision of project personnel.



- 10 -
B. Project Schedule
4.09      The proposed phasing of the project, including construction and
recruitment schedules, is detailed in Annex 6, Tables 1 and 2. Phasing is
largely dictated by the availability of trained field level extension
moniteurs, (see Annex 4). Roughly one quarter of the seven million coffee
trees would be brought under the project's basic improvement campaign in each
of the first four project years. The improvement of communal pulping centers
and the construction of pulping factories would be concluded by year three.
Since it is essential that the moniteurs livre in their working areas, housing
construction for them would proceed with their emtloyment and be completed in
the third year.
C. Cost Estimates
4.10      Total costs of the project are estimated at about FBU 186.9 mil-
lion (US$ 2.14 million equivalent) including an overall contingency of ten
percent but net of the farmers' labor contribution. Additionally, project
costs are net of expenditures on existing coffee research and extension
activity in the project area which would be continued but which would not
form a specific part of the coffee imorovement project. The following
table gives a summary breakdown by major type of expenditure, for futher
details see Annex 6, Tables 3 and 4.
Summarized Estimated Project Costs 1/
In Local Currency             US$ Equivalent
Local   Foreign           Local Foreign       Foreign
Cur-    Ex-               Cur-  Ex-           Ex-
rency   change   Total    rency change  Total change
------ FBU t000… ------   ----- US  '000 ---- Percent
Capital Costs
Vehicles                   -      2,300   2,300    -       26     26   100
New pulping factories    2,500    3,700   6,200    29      42     71     59
Housing, imurovements    2,100    3,000   5 100    24      35     59     59
Sub-Total            4,600     9,000            53     103  _15      66
Inputs
Pesticides,
fertilizer               -      52,000  52,000    -      594    594   100
Dusters, tools, etc.   10 600    18,700  29,300   121     214    335    64
Sub-Total                    70,700   81,300   121    T80     929    86
T'echnical Services
Staff costs            53,300    32,000  85,300   609     365    974    36
Other, incl. research    3,000    3,700 _ 6,700    34      43     77    55
Sub-Total           56,300    35,700  92,000   7T      408  1,051    39
GRAND TOTAL         71,500   115,400 186g90o   817   1,319  2,136    61
1/   Rounded; net of duties, taxes, house rents; but includes an overall
contingency of ten percent.



- 11 -
In total project costs no account is taken of the additional cost to farmers
participating in the project. This is small, approximately the cost of ten
additional man days a year. Since the opportunity cost of labor is low,
possibly FBU 20 per man day, the real cash cost is insignificant. The
estimated foreign exchange component of project costs is about FBU 115.4
million (US$ 1.32 million equivalent), or about 62 percent of total project
costs.
4.11      Cost estimates for capital items are based on the actual costs of
houses, vehicles, communal pulping center improvements, and other items used
by OCIBU in its current operations. The costs of constructing and equipping
pulping factories are based on the actual costs of similar factories erected
in Kenya for smallholder development in 1967, adjusted by 10 percent to
allow for the higher transportation differential. Input costs are based on
current quotations from importers and suppliers. Technical services costs
reflect present OCIBU pay scales and actual current costs of maintenance,
works, and vehicle operation. For expatriate staff, salaries and allowances
used are adequate to induce qualified and experienced personnel to live and
work in the project area. Costs of imported items are estimated free of all
duties, and salaries, and allowances are net of income tax and housing rents.
D. Financing
4.12      An IDA credit of US$S 1.8 million (FBU 157.5 million) would finance
84 percent of project costs totaling USS 2.1 million (FBU 186.9 million) ex-
cluding the service charge on the credit. This would finance the total esti-
mated foreign exchange costs of the project in addition to nearly 60 percent of
local costs. The Government of Burundi would be the borrower and would pro-
vide the 'balance of project costs. The small Government contribution is
justified on country considerations. A higher contribution to the project
costs would upset the Government's effort to consolidate public finances. An
LIF fiscal mission has advised Government to pursue a consolidation of its
ordinary and extraordinary budgets and to endeavor to cover expenditure by
current receipts. A high contribution to project costs would frustrate these
efforts. By means of extraordinary budget allocations the Government would
make available the IDA credit and its own contribution to OCIBU. The allo-
cations would be free of interest and would cover 100 percent of OCIBU's and
ISABU's 1/ expenditures on the project. The following table summarizes the
contributions of IDA and the Government to project financing.
1/   ISABU's expenditures would be for items such as vehicles and materials.
OCIBU would purchase these and issue them to ISABU for that organization's
use.



- 12 -
Summarized Financing Plan 1/
FBU        US$ Equivalent
Million          Million       Percent
Proposed IDA credit                     157.5             1.8            84
Government contribution                  29.4             0.3            16
Total              186.9              2.1          100
1     Figures are rounded.  Details are in Annex 6, Table 8.
4.13      In addition to its contribution to direct project costs, the
Government would arrange through the Central Bank the short-term financing
needed by OCIBU for operation of the project's pulping factories.    Such
financing would be required for three to four months annually for purchasing
cherry, pulping, curing, and marketing and would be provided at commercial
interest rates. The volume of needed short-term financing is shown in the
following table, and further details in Annex 4:
Year     Year       Year      Year      Year
1        2         3          It      '_ 5
… - - - - - - …FBU million - - - - - - - -
-       3.4        10         20       26.5
During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that it
would arrange satisfactorily for the provision of these funds.
Recovery of Project Costs
4.14      Project costs would be recovered by increased Government tax
revenues resulting from production increases enabled by the project. The
financial implications for the Government are detailed in Annex 6, Table 5.
This shows that between years six and 23 the Government would recoup, in
the form of increased tax revenues and profits made by the Government through
OCIBU on the sale of quality coffee, the full costs of the project.    However,
cash benefits accruing to OCIBU from the project would be inadequate to sup-
port continued coffee extension after project termination. For this, addi-
tional funds of about FBU 7 million (US$ 80,000 equivalent) would be needed
annually after year five. Assurances were obtained from the Government dur-
ing negotiations that funds would be made available to OCIBU from Government's
increased tax revenues, resulting from the project, to enable continuation
of coffee extension in the project area after project termination.
Disbursement
4.15      IDA participation would not be wholly related to the foreign ex-
change component of the project.   About US$ 0.7 million - for vehicles,



- 13 -
pulping factory equipment, pesticides, fertilizers, crop dusters and Drulniug
tools would be disbursed 100 percent against shipping documents, CIF Bujumbura.
The remaining US$ 1.1 million of the IDA credit would be disbursed at the rate
of 70 percent of on-site contractors' costs of constructing pulping factories
and buildings, the costs of materials, supplies, and services procured locally,
including drying trays, and the salaries, wages and allowances of project
personnel (see Annex 6, Table 8). Disbursements of 70 percent would be made
against statements of expenditures certified by OCIBU and the Central Bank
(see para. 4.17), and supported by contractors' monthly bills and evidence
of payment thereof.
Procurement
4.16      OCIBU would procure all goods, construction contracts and services.
International competitive bidding would be employed except for individual
tenders of less than US$ 20,000. The latter would be subject to normal
government tendering procedures which OCIBU is required to follow and which
would be satisfactory to the Association. Overseas suppliers are relatively
well represented in Burundi, thus a satisfactory degree of international
competition is insured even in local procurement. It is anticipated that
goods and services with an estimated value of about US$ 0.8 million would
be obtained through international competitive bidding.
Accounting and Auditing
4.17      OCIBU would establish, with the assistance and approval of the
Government, and subsequently maintain appropriate accounts for the project.
The Ministry of Finance currently performs an audit of OCIBU's accounts.
This, although satisfactory as an internal audit, is inadequate for the
purposes of the project. Since there are no private auditing firms in
Burundi the Government proposes that project accounts would be audited
annually, and project expenditure certified, by the Central Bank (see
Annex 3). A similar procedure is used in administering IDA credit BU-85.
V. ORGANIZATION ANTD MANAGEMENT
A. Project Management
5.01      A new department, the Project Department (PD), would be established
within OCIBU and would execute the project. The head of PD would be the
Project Manager, who would be appointed by the Chairman of OCIBU.    The Pro-
ject Mlfanager would be responsible, under the authority and control of the
Chairman and General Director of OCIBU for the day to day management of the
project (see Annex 5). Coordination of activities between PD and other
ministries, departments, ISABU, and the Ngozi provincial administration
would be throuah the Minister of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry who is
Chairman of both OCIBU and ISABU.



B. Accounts and Audit
5.02      Full accounts for PD would be kept, and administrative services
provided, by OCIBU's administrative department; and annual accounts would
be approved by the Minister of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry. Auditing
would be the responsibility of the Central Bank (see para. 4.17).
C. Staff
5.03      The Government intends that key positions in PD would be filled
initially by expatriates. There are no Burundians with the requisite ex-
perience at the present time. There would be four key posts - Project
Manager, Extension Officer, Training Officer and Processing Officer.
5.04      The Project Manager would be an agricultural administrator with
practical experience of coffee cultivation, and a good knowledge of the
problems and techniques of smallholder improvement programs in Africa. He
would have full responsibility for the day to day execution of the project
in both planning and operational phases. The expatriate Project Manager
would be required for five years, and in the fifth year would progressively
hand over to a Burundian counterpart.
5.05      The expatriate Extension Officer would be needed for three years,
after which his role would be filled by a Burundian. His qualifications
and experience would be similar to the Project Manager, and his major
responsibility the organization and supervision of field operations.
5.o6      The Training Officer would be responsible for training Burundian
personnel in coffee cultivation practices and extension methods. His tenure
of office would be four years, when he would hand over to a Burundian counter-
part.  He would require experience in coffee cultivation and training methods.
5.07      The expatriate Processing Officer would be needed for four years.
He would be responsible for developing improved coffee pulping, fermenting
and drying practices. His duties would include the design, supervision of
construction, and maintenance and operation of the project's pulping fac-
tories; and in association with the Training Officer, instructing project
extension personnel in improved pulping and on-farm drying methods. He
would work closely with OCIBU's Coffee Pulping Department, particularly in
the improvement of present communal pulping centers. The Coffee Pulping
Department would take over his work during his final year of office.
5.o8      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
that suitably qualified expatriate personnel would be obtained for the
four key posts and that appointment of the Project Manager would be with
the prior approval of and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. It was agreed with the Government that signature of the



- 15 -
credit agreement would be conditional to the designation of a suiitable
Project MIanager and Training Officer.
5.09      Two categories of trained Burundian staff would be recruited for
PD. First, eight professional agricultural officers who would be graduates
of the four year course at the Gitega Agricultural Institute.    Second, 44
sub-professional staff, moniteurs, who would be graduates of the three year
course at the Karuzi Agricultural School.
5.10      Three agricultural officers would be available for appointment to
PD on initiation of the project, and the remaining five, who are now at
Gitega, during project years two and three. This would be satisfactory
and would meet project requirements. CounterDarts for exoatriate staff
would be drawn from this group of officers.
5.11     'T'wenty-five moniteurs now working in Ngozi Province are graduates
of Karuzi and have had specialized training in coffee. Twenty are available
for Immediate transfer to PD, and the remaining five, with the addition of
ten new Karuzi graduates, in project year two. An additional nine would be
recruited directly from Karuzi in project year three.
5.12      Assurances have been obtained from the Government that the above
numbers of agricultural offices and moniteurs would be made available to the
project.
5.13      A third category of untrained extension workers, assistant moni-
teurs, would also be recruited and trained. These would be 88 Drogressive
coffee farmers whose plots would serve as permanent demonstration units,
and who would provide full-time assistance to the moniteurs.
5.14      Twelve pulping factory operators would also be recruited and
trained by the Processing Officer. In project year three a Fertilizer Sales
Officer would be employed, who would be responsible for the administration
of the fertilizer sales program (see Dara. 4.o6).
VI. YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM ITINCOME
A. Yields and Pro,1ect Production
6.Ol      Parchment coffee yields in the project area averaged 425 grams
per tree in the period 1964 through 1967. Under the Droject it is estimated
that all participating farmers would increase their yields from 425 to 625
grams per tree within a neriod of four years and as a consequence of employ-
inrz the basic imorovement measures - pruning, mulching, pest control and
two booster apnlications of fertilizer.   In addition, it is estimated that
ultimately half the participating farmers would follow up the basic improve-
ment measures by routine fertilizer use. This would further increase yield
from o25 to d25 arams ner tree.   Coffee yields are exDected to build un as
follows:



- 16 -
Build Up in Coffee Yields as Result of
Basic Imnrovement Measures
Year of Improvement            1         2         3          4
Parchment coffee, grams
Der tree                 425       46c5      545        625
6.02      Farmers would be able to start routine fertilizer aoplications
either in year four or subsequently, and would obtain a yield increment of
200 grams per tree in the crop season following the application. For the
purpose of estimating project production it is assumed that:
(a) the basic imDrovement campaign would start on about one fourth
of the seven million trees in each. of Dro.ject years one through
four (see para. 4.09); and
(b)  no participating farmer would adopt routine fertilizer until
project year four when five percent of the farmers would do so,
and that numbers would increase to 50 Dercent of the participating
farmers by project year ten (see para. 4.06).
6.03      On the above basis, project production is expected to develop as
follows:
Development cf Project Production
(m tons parchment coffee)
Annual Increase
11 and            at
Project Year                   1      5      7    Subse,quent  full develonment
Before improvement           2,975    -      -        -
After basic improvement       -     3,921  4,377    4,377          1,402
Increment from routine
fertilizer application      -       210  _420      700             700
Total                   2,975  l423l  _4,797  _,07            2,102
Green coffee equivalent      2,237  3,106  3,607    3,317          1,580
At full development, year eleven and subsequent years, the annual increase in
production enabled by the project would be about 1,580 tons of green coffee.
Of this about 400 tons would be coffee of superior quality resulting from
the operation of the project's pulping factories. On the basis of prices
projected in para. 6.05, the annual value, FOB Dar-es-Salaam, of the
additional production at full development would be FBU 114.8 million (US$ 1.3
million eauivalent) including earnings from quality coffee.



- 17 -
B. Market ProsDects and Prices
6.o4      In terms of total world exports additional production from the
project is insignificant. No problems are foreseen in marketing the project's
average quality coffee in the U.S.A., and the 400 tons of superior quality
coffee in Europe where the demand for quality African coffee is strong.
Bumper crops in the past have been easily absorbed by the U.S. market.
6.05      In the calculation of project benefits the price, FOB Dar-es-Salaam,
assumed for average quality coffee is US¢ 77 per kg until 1973 and US¢ 80
per kg thereafter (see Annex 2, Table 4). This compares with an average
price obtained in 1967 of US¢ 79 per kg, and is in line with the projections
of the Bank's Export Projection and Trade Division. Coffee of superior
quality would receive a premium, and in the calculation of project benefits
this is estimated conservatively at fifteen percent.
C. Farm Incomes
6.0o6     In 1967 the annual net cash return from an average sized coffee
plot of 160 trees was about FBU 2,380.  Use of the project's basic improve-
ment measures would result in this increasing more than 40 percent to about
FBU 3,420. Farmers routinely using fertilizers would increase their incomes
to about FBU 4,230, nearly 80 percent greater than current levels. Annex 6,
table 6 gives details of the growth in income for a typical farm.
6.07      To cbtain the higher level of net cash income, FBU 4,230, a
particiDating farmer would have to expend annually about FBU 390 (US$ 4.45
equivalent) for fertilizers and pesticides and ten additional days of labor.
The benefits from such expenditures are so considerable, and the opportunity
cost of the farmer's labor so low (see para. 4.10), that the net cash gain
of FBU 1,850 should be more than an adequate incentive for him to fully
Darticipate in the program. Furthermore, fertilizers and pesticides would
be cheap, as low as FBU 184, during the initial period of the subsidy
on fertilizer (see para. 4.06), and the net annual cash return from using
the basic improvement measures, which require no cash outlay, would allow
development of the resources to purchase the fertilizers and pesticides
for second stage improvement.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Burundi's underutilized coffee export quota, the feasibility of
improving coffee production at relatively low costs, and the absence of
alternative Drojects with equally rapid and profitable development potential
in the agricultural sector, contribute to making the proposed Droject an
attractive and timely investment.



- 18 -
7.02      The rate of return, to the economy, of the entire project would be
32 percent, based on increased coffee production and improved coffee quality
in the project area and assuming that there are no alternative employment
opportunities for farm labor (see Annex 6, Table 7).    If farm labor is valued
at the going daily farm labor wage of FBU 20, the rate of return would be
23 percent.  Even if only 70 percent of the anticipated gross annual benefits
were to be realized, the rate of return would be 21 percent.
7.03      At full develonment the annual value added to monetary GDP by the
project would be about FBU 78 million (US:$ 0.9 million eauivalent). This is
about 1.5 uercent of current GDP in the monetary sector, and about five per-
cent of present total monetary income earned in agriculture.
7.04      The project would add about US$1.3 million annually to export earn-
ings.  Deducting from this about 10 percent as foreign exchange cost of
materials and services reouired for coffee production, and an assumed 50 Der-
cent as cost towards imported consumer goods to satisfy demand for them
created by increased income, the net balance would be between USt0.5-0.6
million.  This is equivalent to about 15 percent of the average balance of
payment deficit in recent years.
7.05      The project would have additional indirect benefits.    The addi-
tional coffee production resulting from the project would meet only 30
percent of the gas between Burundi's present coffee production and its
quota.  Thus, knowledge and skills aca,uired in project operation would be
applicable to other coffee areas with consequent increases in production
and imDrovement in quality.
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOPMfHENDATIONS
8.01      The project as planned is financially and economically sound and
suitable for an Association credit of US$,1.8 million.   Assurances were
obtained from the Government during negotiations that:
(a) Producer coffee prices would be fixed annually so as to enable
OCIBU to recover from taxes its routine operating expenditure
(see para. 2.09).
(b) Subsidies for inputs would be progressively withdrawn over a
period of nine years (see para. i4.06).
(c)  The Government would arrange short-term finance to OCIBU
covering the operation expenditure of new pulning factories
during the annual coffee campaigns (see para. 4.13).



(d) The Government would make available to OCIBU adequate funds
for continued coffee extension in the project area after
year five (see para. 4.14).
(e) Appointment to the post of Project Manager would be subject to
prior approval by the Association, and that the Project Man-
ager and the Training Officer would be designated prior to
signing a Credit Agreement (see para. 5.08).



ANNEX 1
BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
1.        The diversification of agricultural production and exports are
the key features of Burundi's agricultural policy. Attempts are being made
to integrate agricultural development within a national development plan.
Three agricultural regions with distinct development potentials have been
given priority for development:
(a) The Imbo region, comprising the Rift Valley zone.
(b) The Mosso zone in the southeast of the country,
bordering Tanzania.
(c) The coffee region (see Map 3).
The European Development Fund (FED) is the major source of finance for the
agricultural development program.
2.        The Imbo project for which FED has committed about US$ 7.2 million
is the provision of irrigation and drainage on 5,000 ha of land in the Ruzizi
Valley for the production of cotton and rice. About 2,000 farm families are
expected to be settled ultimately in the Imbo region.
3.        FED has committed US$ 6.3 million for tea production at altitudes
of 2,000 m and more. The objective of this project is to produce 4,000 to
5,000 tons of made tea. Four tea sub-projects are being implemented, each
having a nucleus tea estate of about 500 ha, tea factory, hydroelectric
station, and infrastrucuture development. Suitable land surrounding the
nucleus estates is developed by tea out-growers organized in cooperatives.
Some areas are already in production and seven tons of made tea were re-
cently exported, the first tea exports from Burundi. Sizeable tea produc-
tion would, however, begin only after 1978.
4.        Research carried out by ISABU indicates that the Mosso region is
suitable for tobacco, groundnut, and cotton production. The FAO-IBRD Co-
operative Program is currently studying the possibilities of a viable agri-
cultural project in this region.



BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVMENT PROJECT
MAJOR EXPORTS 1964/1967
1964                    1965                        1966                      1967
Volume     Value   Volume   Value             Volume    Value            Volume     Value
'000     Million   '000   Million             ' o000  Million     %       000    Million    %
tons       FBU     tons     FBU               tons      FBU              tons      FBU
Primary Sector           -          -      17.4   1,105.8    94.6    18.0    1,123.6   2941      23.0    1,400.4   96.1
Green coffee      18.3         -      13.6     951.9    81.5    14.8      988.7     82.8    18.7    1,237.0   84.9
(Arabica coffee) (17.7)       (-)    (12.8)     (-)      (-)   (14.1)      (-)      (-)    (17,8)     (_)     C-)
Cotton             2.0         -       2.7     123.6    10.6     2.0       91.5     7.7      2.4      112.7    7.7
Hides and skins    0.4         -       0.5      20.5     1.7     0.4       22.6      1.9     0.2       14.6    1.0
Minerals             -         -        -        3.4     0.3     0.2         8.7     0.7     0.5       34.0    2.3
Castor seeds       0.2         -       0.2       1.7     0.1     0.2        1.7     0.1      0.2        1.2    0.1
Others             1.7         -       0.4       4.7     0.4     0.4       10.4     0.9       -         0.9    0.1
Manufactured Goods       2.4        -       4.1      62.3     5.      4.2        70.2     5.9     3.8       55.9     3.9
TOTAL:                  980.9            1,168.1   100.0            1,193.8   100.0             1,456.3  100.0
SOURCE:   IRUSTAT, 1967



ANNEX 2
Table 2
BURUNDI
ARABICA CCFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF ARABICA COFFEE QUALITY
Quality Grade            X        1964      1965      1966      1967
In Percent of Total Coffee Exports
OCIRU 11"                0.3        -        0.2       0.2       o.6
OCIRU 22/               22.8      37.2      17.9       1.7        -
OCIRU 3A2/              61.0      53.7      63.9      53.6       78.0
OCIRU 3B A. 99                     3.3      11.9      10.2      28.0
OCIRU 4                  2.2       1.4       1.3       0.9        2.0
OCIRU2                   3.8 _               4.8       6.4       1.4
100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0
SOURCE:   OCIB3U
1/  Includes "fully washed and fermented" qualities.   The proposed pulp-
ing factories are expected to produce "fully washed and fermented"
grades, which are in demand in &Eropean markets.
2/ Uniform in size; no stinkers; very few broken beans; green to brownish
green in color; fair and uniform in liquor.
3/  Relatively uniform in size; high amount of broken beans; brownish-
green to yellowish-green in color; fair to poor in liquor.
4/ Varying sizes; high amount of broken beans; brownish-green to yellow;
poor liquor.
5/  Includes non-classifiable grades.



nununi
ARABICA COFF  T(PROVENT PROJECT
ANNUAL ESTMTES OF AVERAOE ARA2BIrA COFFEE FM  PRICES
1965               1966                     1967
FBU    1   Percent       FBU    1   Percent        FBU   1   Percent
Green Coffee
ExcDted average svaue FOB
Darie-Sa:laam Y                   72,064       100.0       73,483        100.0      68,656        100.0
Less:
Freight                            2,961         4.1        3,258          4.4       3,,224         4.7
Insurance, financing                 403         0.6        1,320         1.8        1,320          1.9
OCIBU tax                          3,O00         4.2        1,600          2.2         -   31 Ž
Promotion tax (OCIB1U)              125          0.2          620         0.8          -             -
Export duty                       11,800        16.3       11,800         16.0      10,375         15.1
Other fees                            76         0.1           38          0.1          38          0.1
Curing, bagging                    2,493         3.5        2,600          3.6       2,342          3.4
Exporters' fee                     1,882         2.6        1,760          2.4       1,664          2.4
Middlemen's fee                    1,400         1.9        1,096          1.5       1,693          2.5
Average farm price                   47,924        66.5       49,391         67.2      48,0oo         69.9
Parchment Coffee
Average farm price Y                 34 952                   36,0oo                   35,000
/ For qualities OCIRU 2 and OCIRU! 3 in lu  gfive percent broken beans in US¢ per lb as follows:
1965t 37.80; 1966:    38.50; 1967: 36.00.
2/  One ton green coffee - 1.33 tons parchment coffee.
3/ The price stabilization fnd was used to provide OCIBll with funds.
Annoumced in advance of and paid during the coffee season to producers, free Bujumbura.
Source: Central Bank.



ANNEX 2
Table 4
BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE DCPROVIENRT PROJECT
ARABICA COFFE PRICES
(A) Price Development
Guatemala 1/             Burmdi                   Price
Year           CIF New York        FOB Dar-es-Salaaa          Differential
--US -             ----      per lb----------------------…
1958              49.81                   45.00                  4.81
1959              42.62                   37.25                  5.37
1960              41.33                   37.25                  4.08
1961              37.55                   34.50                  3.05
1962              35.83                   33.00                   2.83
1963              35.40                   29.50                   5.90
1964              47.16                   43.25                   3.91
1965              45.51                   39.50                   6.01
1966              42.25                   37.75                   4.50
1967              39.23                   35.90                   3.33
Averages          41.67                   37.29                  4.38
(B)  Price Projection
1968-1973         39.50                   35.00                   4.50
From 1974         41.00                   36.50                  4.50
y nZ"Prie washed" grade.
2/  Average of grades OCIRU 2 and 3 (see Table 2).
a/   The Export Projection and Trade Division of the Bank's Economics Depart-
ment projects a price range for Guatemala coffee of 39-40 US ¢ per lb until
1973, and of 41 US 0 per lb thereafter.    On the basis of this price pro-
jection and the past price differential between Guatemala and Burundi
coffee, the prices for the evaluation of project benefits are estimated
as foUoas: 35 US 0 per lb until 1973 and 36.5 US ¢ per lb after 1973,
on average for all quality grades OCIRU 2 to 3. This means that the
value of a kg of green coffee, FOB Dar-es-Salasm, is estimated at US ¢ 77
prior to 1973 and at US ¢ 80 after 1973.



ANNEX 3
BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
OCIBU
Objectives
1.        OCIBU (Office des Cultures Industrielles du Burundi) is a semi-
autonomous agency with its own budget. It was set up after the splitting
of OCIRU (Office des Cultures Industrielles du Rwanda-Urundi) into two
national organizations in 1964. OCIBU's by-laws permit it to:
(a) Produce, transport, process and pack agricultural products.
(b) Establish quality and packing standards for marketable
agricultural produce and to enforce these standards.
(c) Handle, stock and dispatch agricultural products.
(d) Finance agricultural crops, and their processing.
(e) Market crops whenever this may be required by the Government.
(f) Negotiate and conclude international agreements related to
the production and sale of agricultural produce.
(g) Manage funds and donations specifically intended for the
promotion of the production and sale of agricultural products.
2.        Currently, OCIBU's main activity is to ensure the quality of
Burundi coffee exports in accordance with internationally recognized grades.
Other activities include:
(a) Participation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal
Husbandry in the establishment and maintenance of coffee
nurseries for replacement plantings with high yielding varieties;
(b) development of new export markets for coffee, and campaigns for
increased domestic coffee consumption;
(c) representation of Burundi at international coffee organizations;
(d) establishment and supervision of communal coffee pulping centers;
(e) importation, distribution and organization of the use of pesticides
in the pest control campaigns.
In 1967 OCIBU was given similar responsibilities for cotton and tea. OCIBU
also manages a Coffee Price Stabilization Fund and a Coffee Promotion Fund.
These were built up prior to independence, and further details are given in
para. 6.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Organization and Management
3.        OCIBU is governed by a Board of Directors consisting of:
the Minister of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry (Chairman);
the Minister of Economic Affairs:
the Director General of ISABU;
the Chairman of the Parliamentary Commission for Economic
Affairs (presently vacant);
two farmers; and
two representatives from the commercial sector.
The Director General of OCIBU attends Board rneetings but has no voting rights.
The Board's composition ensures a fair degree of operational autonomy.
4.        In addition to the Board, OCIBU's by-laws provide for a Management
Committee composed of:
the Minister of Agriculture and An:imal Husbandry;
the Director General of ISABU;
the Director General of OCIBU;
one commercial representative; and
one farmer representative.
This Committee advises the Director General and controls the implementation
of Board resolutions.
5.        OCIBU is a well organized agency.   It has presently four depart-
ments - Administration, Coffee Licensing and Grading, Coffee Promotion, and
Coffee Pulping Services. An additional department for tea, cotton and other
cash crops is being established. These departments report to the Director
General who is the country's most senior agricultural administrator, and who
has served twice as cabinet minister. He is assisted by a Joint Director
and an Assistant Director. In addition, the senior administrative staff
includes a personnel manager, a lady accountant, who is expatriate, two
assistant accountants and one expatriate who is responsible for buildings.
The Licensing and Grading Department has three coffee tasters of whom two
are expatriate, and an expatriate store manager. Two expatriates and one
Burundian operate the Pulping Service Department who are responsible for
the maintenance of about 800 communal pulping centers in the country; and
two Burundian agricultural officers assist coffee growers in the proposed
project area. The administrative staff is competent and would be adequate
to provide the services required for supporting the proposed project. The
Administration Department has experience in tendering and international com-
petitive procurement of construction, equipment and farm inputs. Office
space, laboratories, warehouses and port installations are more than adequate,
because OCIBU took over OCIRU's establishment in Bujumbura which was laid
out to serve the united territory of Rwanda - Urundi prior to independence.
As far as the organizational and professional competence is concerned, OCIBU
would be a satisfactory agency to execute the proposed project.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Financial Arrangements
6.        In addition to Board supervision, OCIBU's borrowing and investment
is controlled by the Ministry of Finance. All tangible assets and inventories
remaining in Burundian territory, and a share of OCIRU's liquid assets were
taken over by OCIBU at the time of the partition of Burundi and Rwanda in
1964. Until recently sources of OCIBU's income have been taxes levied on
exportable coffee, fees, rents and interest. The taxes include a special
tax to reimburse OCIBU's operating expenses and a coffee promotion tax
which is to be paid to the Coffee Promotion Fund (CPF). This fund is ear-
marked for the promotion of coffee consumption in Burundi and abroad. The
combined rate of these two taxes has been three to four percent of the value
of green coffee, FOB Dar-es-Salaam, until 1966 (see Annex 2, Table 3). How-
ever, collection of taxes to reimburse OCIBU's operating expenses covered
only part of its requirements in 1966, and no taxes were levied in 1967
when projected export earnings were lower than in previous years. In order
to maintain a high producer price the Coffee Price Stabilization Fund (CPSF)
was used instead of taxes to pay the bulk of OCIBU's operating expenses in
both years. This decreased CPSF's assets, which consist mainly of government
bonds and securities. The current net value of CPSF at December 31, 1967
was FBU 43.7 million (US$ 0.5 million equivalent) and more than half of this
is payable to OCIBU (see Tables 1 and 2). Unless producer coffee prices
are lowered to allow the collection of taxes in the future CPSF will be ex-
hausted after a further coffee campaign. Furthermore, coffee promotion
taxes collected by OCIBU have not been paid to the CPF. Its current net
value of FBU 11.0 million (US$ 0.13 million equivalent) is almost entirely
owed by OCIBU. Continued operation of CPF would depend on continued trans-
fer of coffee promotion taxes. It would be necessary to obtain assurances
that producer coffee prices would be lowered to enable OCIBU to collect the
taxes which are required to reimburse current and future operating expenses.
Accounting and Auditing
7.        OCIBU's accounts are well maintained on a government system to
provide for adequate information and general financial control. However,
some improvements could be made in lay-out and presentation of published
accounts and reports. The Ministry of Finance performs an audit of OCIBU's
accounts. This although satisfactory as an internal audit, is not sufficient
for the purposes of the proposed project. Since there are no private audit-
ing firms in Burundi Government proposed that project accounts would be
audited, and project expenditure certified, by the Central Bank of Burundi.
The Central Bank already assists in administering IDA credit BU-85 and would
be willing to take up similar responsibilities for the proposed credit.



ANNEX 3
BURUNDI                              Table 1
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEfMENT PROJECT
OCIBU-SUMMARIZED BALANCE SHEETS
Year ending December 31
In FBU '000
(A) ASSETS                                        1966                 1967
Fixed assets                       26,702                29,445
Less depreciation               17,898                18,995
Net book value                            8,804             10,450
Current assets
Cash and Bank                    3,485                  3,897
Inventories                     19,843                  3,099
Debtors
Cooperative Butegana          4,977                10,577
Net amount due from Coffee
Price Stabilization Fund      110                 24,520
Miscellaneous                   865                 1,384
Other                               28                     45
Sub-total                                29,308             43,522
Payments in advance                               681                 957
GRAND TOTAL                              38,793             54,929
(B) LIABILITIES
Capital and reserves
Capital                         17,348                17,348
Reserves                         3,649                 5,973
Income and expenditure account
balance after allocation to
reserves                     13,822                13,942
Sub-total                                34,819             37,263
Current liabilities
Provisions                       1,536                  2,928
Creditors
Net amount due to Coffee
Promotion Fund               781                  9,723
Miscellaneous                 1,512                  5,005
Other                                7                    10
Sub-total                                 3,836             17,666
Payments in arrear                                138               -
GRAND TOTAL                              38,793             54,929
(C) NET VALUE OF FUNDS
Coffee Price Stabilization Fund               96,396              43,705
Coffee Promotion Fund                           9,531             10,993
1/   Excludes doubtful assets located in the Congo (Democratic Republic) of
FBU 13.611 million



ANNEX 3
Table 2
BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
OCIBU - SUMMARIZED OPERATING ACCOUNTS
YEAR ENDING DECQBHE 331
In FBU 1000
Exenditure                                     Income
1966     1967                                1966       1967
Administration   5,160    5,643     Taxes/                     24,045    2,028
Laboratories     3,340    4,134     Coffee Price Stabili-      19,636   48,828
zation Fun(L2/
Pulping centers  4,436    5X681     Warehousing                   118      153
International                       Miscellaneous               2,799      775
organizations    1,062    1,818
Coffee nurseries   836      270
Fertilizer pro-
motion           1,868    2,874
Extension          914      957
Pest control    19,654   20,453
Warehouses       6,805    6,014
Miscellaneous      311    1,496
Excess of income
over expenditure 2,212    2,444
TOTAL       46,598   51,784                               46.598    W1784
1/   Includes taxes from robusta and roasted coffee.
2/   Drawings on Coffee Price Stabilization Fund.



ANNEX )
BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT MEASURES
A. Coffee Husbandry
Pruning Techniques
1.        Coffee trees must be pruned to obtain uniform cropping and
effective pest control since unpruned trees develop bushy, unproductive
growth which is ideal for the proliferation of pests and diseases.
2.        The importance of pruning was recognized by the authorities in
Burundi prior to independence. They operated a six year pruning cycle of
coffee trees on the basis of six pruning regions such that in one region
each year every tree was pruned back completely. The system was effective
in that pruning could be supervised easily and overall production was main-
tained at a relatively constant level. However, it has grave disadvantages
to the individual producer whose only source of cash income was totally
removed in the year of pruning and seriously limited in the subsequent year
until new bearing stems had grown up. Understandably, farmers abandoned
regional pruning when controls were removed after independence and product
tion has suffered in consequence.
3.        The pruning system proposed for the project would aim at providing
farmers with a regular income from their coffee. This would be achieved
by staggering pruning of trees on a row by row basis in the farm, by adopting
a system whereby old stems are removed progressively year by year and by
matching pruning to the growth stage of the tree.
1.        The system proposed has led to high yields in other coffee growing
countries and has the added advantage, by providing a sustained income, of
convincing farmers that pruning is both necessary and beneficial. The yield
projections of the proposed project are based on the assumption that the
system would be followed such that the average holding would have a constant
proportion of trees in various stages of regeneration at all times. Provi-
sions is made for the initial supply of one set of simple pruning tools to
each participating farmer.
Mulching
5.        The high standard of mulching to give 100 percent ground cover
using grasses and largely banana crop waste, will be maintained and improved
as required by the proposed extension services. Mulching materials are in
good supply.



ANNEX h
Page 2
Pest Control
6.        The most important coffee pest in the area is the antestia bugL/
which may cause up to 20 percent loss of crop. Antestia can be controlled
with a mixture of 10 percent DDT and 5 percent Malathion applied as a dust.
Provision has been made in the project for supply of insecticides and simple,
hand dusters for distribution to farmers by extension staff who would also
demonstrate correct dusting techniques.
7.        No other serious pest or diseases occur in the project area but the
possibility of outbreaks, particularly, coffee berry disease, which
is serious elsewhere in Burundi, must be kept in mind by project staff and
ISABU.
Fertilizer
8.        Proposals for fertilizer applications are based on the results of
trials carried out by ISABU in the project area from 1962-1966. The trials
established the overall importance of good husbandry practices and applica-
tions of nitrogenous fertilizers for bringing about substantial increases
in the yield of parchment coffee. It is considered that regular mulching
with crop wastes, (see para. 5), should prevent significant deficiencies
of other nutrients. Similar results have been obtained in Kenya.
9.        The project would make provision for annual applications of 1bO
grams of urea per coffee tree in the first three years of the improvement
period. Possibly a two year period would be adequate, but since the results
from fertilizer use will not show until the third year, the Government considers
it prudent, in the interest of the fertilizer sales program, to provide ferti-
lizers free for three years. Urea would be provided free through extension
staff who would use the fertilizer as a means of obtaining cooperation from far-
mers in other aspects of rehabilitation. Thereafter fertilizer would be supplied
at a subsidised rate against a certificate from project staff. The subsidy would
decline from an initial level of 66 percent of retail price to nil after six year:
10.       Operation of the fertilizer scheme would be the responsibility of a
fertilizer sales officer who would organize distribution, from stock held by OCIBI
through some 30-h0 selected traders in the project area. The fertilizer sales
officer would be responsible to project management throughout the life of the pro.
ject. Provision is made in the cost estimates for establishment and staffing the
proposed fertilizer sales scheme.
Coffee Track Improvement
11.       Access to the project area for extension staff and production inputs
is largely via a network of tracks maintained by farmers. Some 350 improvised
bridges over revulets and streams require replacement to allow free passage of
goods and provision is made under the project for the materials required. Labour
would be provided by the farmers themselves.
1/ The coffee bug Antestiopsis lineaticollis feeds on soft tissue of coffee
trees, particularly immature berries giving irregularly shaped beans or none
at all.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Anticipated Impact of Improved Husbandry
12.       Estimates of yields from farmers' trees in the project area vary
between 330 and 1200 grams parchment coffee per tree. These figures indicate
a high inherent yield potential when compared with an average farmers' yield
in Ngozi Province of 425 grams and the non-fertilized yield of 671 grams of
parchment coffee per tree achieved through good husbandry practices. On the
basis of these data it is conservatively estimated that the combined effect
of proposed improvement measures would bring about an increase in parchment
coffee yield from 425 grams to 625 grams per tree, an increase of 200 grams
over the present average yield level (see Table 1). The yield increase
envisaged would probably be accomplished within four years of introduction
of improved practices.
B. Quality Improvement
On Farm Processing
13.       Almost all the cherry produced in the project area is processed by
farmers themselves. Standards of picking, pulping, washing and drying are
generally unsatisfactory due to ignorance and inadequate facilities.
14.       Extension staff would promote picking of cherry at the correct
stage of ripeness with subsequent prompt transfer to communal pulping centers.
80 such centers located in the project area would be improved to allow of
immediate pulping in correctly adjusted disc pulpers followed by washing in
properly designed areas having adequate numbers of individual basins, washing
channels with silt pits and fruit skin areas. Maintenance of the centers
would be carried out by OCIBU as at pre6ent.
Proposed Pulping Factories
15.       The measures proposed in para. 14 would result in a significant
increase in quality of the standard grades of coffee currently exported.
An even greater increase in quality could be achieved in additional and more
closely controlled processing to produce a fully washed and fermented grade.
Tests on samples of this grade indicate the possibility of a price differ-
ential equivalent to US$ 130 per ton or about 18 percent over standard
Burundi coffee.
16.       Exploitation of this quality potential would require provision of
pulping, fermenting and drying facilities in the project area. Four small
factories are proposed, sited in areas of highest coffee concentration, on
perennial streams and adjacent to existing communal pulping centers. The
factories could be modelled on the successful Kenya Coffee Authority (KCA)
pattern. Each would be equipped with a diesel driven three disc pulper,
a pre-grader, fermentation tanks, washing channels, drying tables, storage
and housing for the factory supervisor. The factories, which would be
operated by OCIBU, would purchase selected ripe cherry from farmers. This
high quality material would then be cured and exported separately from



ANNEX 4
Page 4i
the bulk of the Burundian crop. It is considered that the high quality
coffee processed in the proposed factories would find a ready sale either
to American or European markets probably in the initial stages via the
coffee auctions in Nairobi or Dar-es-Salaam.
17.       Each of the four factories proposed would have an annual through-
put of 600 ton of cherry. This quantity of cherry would yield 130 tons of
parchment which is equivalent to 100 tons of green coffee. The basis for
these estimates are figures obtained from OCIBU which have been crosschecked
and are in agreement with coffee processing data from Kenya.
18.       Factories would be sited in areas of maximum coffee production
potential such that the annual throughput is available within a three km
radius, the average distance between farmers' plots and communal pulping
centers. Farmers selling to the proposed factories would received an
incentive in that they would be given in cash on delivery of their cherry,
a price equivalent to that fixed by Government for parchment coffee.
Costs and Returns
19.       Construction costs for one factory would be about US$ 16,000 as
detailed in Table 2. Prices are based on actual costs, obtained from KCA,
plus 10 percent to cover transportation to and within Burundi. Personnel
requirements and costs based on Kenya experience are detailed with other
operating costs in Table 3. It is anticipated that factories would operate
at 50 percent capacity in the first year and reach full capacity in year
two. Funds for construction and operation of factories are provided in
project cost estimates. Estimated returns from the four factories are shown
in Table 4.
20.       Financial results of the factories during the project would be
as follows:
Year      Year      Year       Year
2         3         4          5
No. of factories operating            1         2         4          4
Tons green coffee                    50       150       300       400
-         - FBU '000 - - - - - - -
FOB Dar-es-Salaam 1/              3,874    11,622    23,244    30,992
Less:  Operating costs 2/         3,446    10,073    20,146    26,510
Net return                          428     1,549     3,098     4 482
1/   Projected price plus 15 percent = FBU 77,369 per ton green coffee;
figures rounded.
2/   Excluding costs for personnel and labor, see Tables 2 and 3.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
21.       The estimated surplus would allow payment of higher prices for
cherry should farmers require an additional incentive to sell to the fac-
tories. However, in calculating project cash returns it has been assumed
that OCIBU would receive the full amount from quality coffee sales.
C. Extension
22.       Implementation of the improved production and processing practices
outlined above presupposes a high density of trained extension staff in the
project area. It is estimated that 44 field demonstrators (moniteurs) and
88 assistant moniteurs, or one extension worker per 330 farmers, would be
needed for field work. Moniteurs and their assistants would be supervised
by eight agricultural officers who would in turn be supervised by four
extension supervisors. The latter would be of the professional officer
grade, responsible for staff training, overall supervision and project ex-
ecution. Because Burundian professional officers are not available, the
four supervisor posts should be filled by expatriates on contract pending
the training of indigenous replacements. Costs of extension staff, including
housing and vehicle charges, are included in project estimates.
D. Research
23.       ISABU, Burundi's agricultural research organization will provide
the research support essential for successful project execution. Particular
attention would be paid to the control of coffee pests, diseases, and plant
nutrient deficiencies. Research results would be regularly reviewed with
the project management to ensure that corrective improvement measures are
initiated whenever necessary. The fertilizer trials in Ngozi province which
were terminated in 1966 should be resumed in order to put researchers in a
better position to advise on plant nutrient deficiencies. The design of the
dozen trials planned by ISABU should be decided in close consultation with
the project management to make sure that farmers' requirements are fully met.
Besides improving present fertilizer recommendations, the trials would have
additional value in demonstrating sound coffee husbandry practices in areas
of Ngozi province not covered by project activities. Project cost estimates
include provision for vehicles and materials for ISABU to conduct the pro-
posed fertilizer trials.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE INPROVEMENT PROJECT
ARABICA COFFEE YIELDS
Parchment coffee
gram per tree        Percent
(A) Average Tree Yields
Ngozi Province 1/                         425               100
Ngozi Province, 1964                      614               144
Without Fertil zer 2/                     617               158
N-Treatments 3                            867               200
Improvement Effect                        625 (+200)        146
Regular Fertilizer Application 5/          825 (+400)       194
(B) Expected N Response in Kenya
Without Fertilizer                         980              100
64 gram N per Coffee Tree               1,295 (+315)        132
1/ Average 1964-1967.
2/ Average of six field trials, 1962-1966; without fertilizer but
good husbandry; pruning was done by cutting off two of three
stems per coffee tree at initiating trials.
3/ Average of pooled yield responses of all treatments which had
64 gr N per coffee tree annually in combination with P, K and
Mg, and husbandry as in 2/.
hi Project estimate; combined effect of proposed improvement measures.
5/ Project estimate; regular application of 64 gram N per coffee
tree annually on improved coffee holdings.
Sources: OCIBU, ISABU, and Kenya Coffee, Vol. XXII, No. 370, 1966.



BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVWEMNT PROJECT
Pulping Factory - Construction Cost
Item                                 Unit Cost                      Foreign Exchange Cost
U.S$             FBU           US$            FBU          Percent
Buildings and construction V          8,000           700,000        4,000        350,000           50
Materials
Timber                             1,900           166,250           -             -               _
Wire netting                         900             78,750          810         70,875           90
Roofing                              400             35,000          360         31,500           90
Iron fittings                      1,600            140,000        1,44o        126,000           90
Water piping                         900             78,750          810         70,875           90
Subtotal                      13,700         1,198,750         7,420        649,250           54
Machinery
Weighing balance, weights            150             13,125          135         11,810           90
Three-disc pulper                    900             78,750          810         70,875           90
Pre-grader                           750             65,625          675         59,065           90
Diesel engine 2/                     400             35,000          360         31,500           90
Baseplates, bolts, etc.              100              8,750           90          7,875           90
Subtotal                        2,300           201,250        2,070        181,125           90
Grand Total                   16,000          1,40O,000        9,490        830,375           59
1/  Includes concrete works for channels, tanks, foundations and plumbing, and erection of buildings             II
and structures.                                                                                             CD.P
21 About 6.5 B.H.P.                                                                                             r. '



BURUNDI
COFFEE INFROVEMENT PROJECT
Pulping Factory-Annual Operating Cost
(At full development)
Unit Cost                        Foreign Exchange Cost
Item                            FBU                   Percent             FBU            US$
Purchasing 600 tons arabica cherry/               4,550,000
Personnel:
Supervisor (12 months)                              78,750                   _
Repairman (plumber, 12 months)                      70,000                   -
Storeman (12 months)                               35,000
12 Factory labor (100 working days)2-              30,000                    _
50 Casual labor (100 working days).j/             110,000                    -
Sub-total                       323,750                    _
Repairs and Replapqment-/                             87,500                   70             61,250          700
Fuel, Lubric ttionW                                  31,140                    90             28,000          320
Bags, TwineP                                         66,500                    50             33,250          380
Miscellaneous (transport, postage, etc.)   6/        41,562                    _                _              _
Depreciation on Buildings, and Construction-         37,100                    -                -              -
TOTAL:                        5,137,552                   2.4            122,500        1,400
Notes:
1/ The purchase price per kg arabica cherry is FBU 7.58, calculated at 65 percent of the FOB value Dar-es-Salaam
for coffee of average quality (US¢ 80 per kg), with an estimated ratio of cherry to green coffee of six to
one.
2/  The daily wage for a factory worker is FBU 25, and for a casuallabmu   FBU 22, based on payments for similar
work in FED tea projects.
3/ Wear and tear on machinery and drying equipment will be heavy because little experience in handling and
maintenance is available in the project area.  Provisions have, therefore, been made to allow for replacement I z
of machinery and drying equipment every five years.                                                            rz
4/  Fuel cost is calculated for 100 working days, at 25 liter diesel fuel per day, at FBU 10 per liter.               a
g/  Partly new and partly used bags will be needed, at FBU 500 per ton parchment.
h/ The amortization period is 30 years.



B UR UNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVE4ENT PROJECT
Pulping Factories. Annual Operating Costs and Net Returns
Year 2         Year 3         Year 4          Year 5        Year 6
and thereafter
Factories in Operation                      i              2              4               4             4
Cherry Throughput (Tons)                   300            900           1800            2400          2400
Green Coffee Equivalent (Tons)              50            150             300            400           400
-   -  -   -  -   -  -  -   -  -  -   -  -  -   -  FBU   '000  -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -   -   -  -  -
Gross Return- /3874.0                                  11,622.2        23,244.3       30,992.4      32,200.0
Less: Operating Costs2/
Cherry3/                      2,189.7        6,569.1       13,138.2        17,517.6      18,199.2
Pulping, Fermenting4/           263.8          527.6        1,055.2        1,055.2        2,350.2
Trucking                         66.o          198.0          396.0           528.0         528.0
Curing, Bagging                 127.1          381.3          762.6         1,016.8       1,016.8
Duties, Taxes                   401.9        1,205.7        2,411.4         3,215.2       3,215.2
Freight                         162.9          488.7          977.4        1,303.2        1,303.2
Insurance                         6.o           18.0           36.o            48.0          48.0
Interest                         60.0          180.0          360.0           480.0         480.0
Exporter's fee                   80.8          242.4          484.8           646.0         646.0
Others                           87.5          262.5          525.0           700.0         700.0
Sub-total:           3,445.7       10,073.3       20,146.6                      28,46.6
Net Return             428.3        1,548.9        3,097.7        4,482.4        3,713.4
1/ Estimated return from green coffee, FOB Dar-es-Salaam. Year 2 to 5: USO 77 per kg plus
15 percent = FBU 77,481 per ton; thereafter: US¢ 80 per kg plus 15 percent = FBU 80,500 per ton.
2/  If not otherwise noted, actual costs of the coffee campaign 1967.
3/  Estimated cherry price paid to farmers:   year 2 to 5:  FBU 7,299 per ton; thereafter:   FBU 7,583 per ton.
:/  Year 2 to 5 excluding personnel, which is included in the project cost estimates; see Table 3.
!4



BURUNDI: ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
CHAIRMAN OCIBU *
CHAIRMAN OCIBU*
DIRECTOR GENERAL OCIBU:]
PROJECT MANAGER                   I       PULPING
ADMINISTRATION             L      _     (5 YEARS)                    1
BUR_UNDIAN (YEAR 6)                I      SERVICES
EXTENSION OFFICERTRAININGOFFI4  T      (                               PROCESSING OFFICEF
(3 YEARS)(4 YEA40)(YEARA6)
SURUNN (YEAR 4)                     SUR U.CNAN (YEAR 5)                    (4YAS
(SENIGR) AGRICULTURAL/       M SOR1 AGRICULTURAL27 |   SENIOR) AGRICULTURAOi|         5 AGRICULTURAL            FERTILIZER SALES
OFFICER                  0OFFICER                    OFFICER                       OFFICERS                   OFFICER
(3 YEARS)                 (4 YEARS)                  (S YEARS)                     (4 YEAR 61                 (I YEAR 61
44 MONITEURS           |   12 FACTORY STAFF
_      40 YEA   |)                 II2 YEAR  6 )
88 ASSISTANT MONITEURS
(40 YEAR 61
.L' Replaces EcleAsion Officer
?/ Reploces Training Officer
t Office des Culiures Industriolles du Burundi                                               1/ Replaces Project Manager                  Z
m
May 1968                                                                                                                        (3R)IBRD-3861  X
88 ASSISTAblT IONITEURS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Development Schedule
Unit        Year      Year      Year      Year      Year
Cost
FBU -         1         2         3         4          5      Total
I. Coffee Improvement
(a)  Pest Control:
Coffee trees, million       -            2.7       4.7       7.0       7.0        7.0     -
Pesticides, tons          21,992        46        94       140        140       140        560
(b)  Fertilizer:2/
Coffee trees, million       -            1.3       3.2       3.8       3.8        1.9     -
Urea, tons                11,900       185       455       725       810        540      2,715
(c) Equipment:
Dusters                    1,548       400       400       400           -         -     1,200
Pruning tools, sets          165     8,000    12,000    12,000    12,000           -    44,000
Drying trays                 438     8,000    12,000    12,000     12,000          -    44,000
II. Fertilizer Sales Program
Coffee trees, million       -             -          -       0.36       1.08      2.16    -
Urea, tons 3/             11, 900         -                               50        150    200
Percent subsidy             -             -                            66        66       -
III. Buildings and Construction
Communal pulping centers  35,000        20        40         20          _         -        80
Pulping factories      l,40,000          1          1         2          -         -         4
Track bridges hi           1,049         70       100       100         80         -       350
Moniteur housing           30,596       20         15         9          -         -        44
Equipsnt hd              148,750         1          -         -          -         -         1
i/   Net of duties and taxes.
2/   Each of seven million coffee trees would receive      booster applications of urea.
3/   Urea sales are expected to increase gradually to 500 annually by year eleven. The subsidy would be         a i
33 percent from year sen through nine and would be withdrawn thereafter.                                  CD
4/   Materials.                                                                                                 H al



ANNEX 6
Table 2
BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Staffing, Vehicle Requirements and Research
Unit     Year Year Year    Year Year     Year 6
Cost                                   and there-
FBU        1     2     3     4     5     after
I. Personnel:
A. Expatriate
Project Manager       2,100,000     1     1     1     1     1       -
Extension Officer     2,012,500     1     1     1     -     -       -
Training Officer      2,012,500     1     1     1     1     -       -
Processing Officer    1,925,000     1     1     1     1     -       -
B. Burundian
Senior Agricultural     223,125     -     -     2     3     3       3
Officer
Agricultural Officer    196,875     3     6     6     5     5       4
Moniteur 1/              78,750    20    35    44    44    44       40
Assistant Moniteur       39,375    40    70    88    88    88      40
Fertilizer Sales
Officer                196,875     -     1     1     1     1       1
Office Staff             96,250     2     2     2     2     2       1
Factory Supervisor       78,750     2     4     4     4     4       4
Repairman                70,000     4     4     4     4     4       4
Storeman                 35,000     1     2     4     4     4       4
Driver                   61,250     6     9     9    10    10       7
Factory Labor             2,2582/   -    62   124   248   248     248
II. Vehicles:
Four wheel drive        183,750     1     1     1     2     2       1
Pick-up                 147,125     5     8     8     8     8       6
Motorcycle               37,1449    3     7     9     9     9       4
Bicycle                   4,200    25    40    50    50    50      50
III. Vehicle Operating Cost:
Four wbeel drive        127,510     1     1     1     2     2       1
Pick-up                  86,291     5     8     8     8     8       6
Motorcycle               26,787     3     7     9     9     9       4
Bicycle                     559    25    40    50    50    50      50
IV. Research:
Total
Vehicles and materials
in FBU 1000                883   :323  1140    140  140  140       -
1/ Field demonstrator
7/ 12 factory laborers at FBU 25 a day, and 50 casual laborers at FBU 22 a day



BUfNI
ARARICA COFME PIPROVYEXSNT PRiOJECT
Estimated Project Costs
Local    Foreign                 Local    Foreign              Foreign
Currency   &changr    Total      Currency   e=    ge  Total cae
- -  BU '000---                 -USUI Om0--               frent
Cgaptal Costs
Vehicles                                -         2,092     2,092         -         23.9       23.9      100
Newr pulping factories                2,296       3,300     5,600         26.2       37.8      64.0       59
Pulping center improvement              a1o l,960           2,800          9.6       22.4       32.0      70
Track improvement                        73         294       367         0.8         3.4       4.2       80
MLonliteur housing, oquipment saed     $286         509      1.495        a.-I        5.8       17-1      34
Sub-Total                      4,195       8,159    12,354        h7.9       93.3      4l1.2       66
Contingency at 10 percent        419         816     1,235         4.8        2-3.1                 -
Total Capital Costa           14           8.975    131589                                         667 102.6
!!!Ruts
Pesticideo                              -        12,544    12,514          -        143.1         .4     100
Fertilizer                               -       34,689     34,689         -        3964t      3.4       100
Dusters                                 -         1,859     1,859          -         21.2       21.2     100
Pruning tools                           _         5,582     5,582          -         63.8       63.8     100
DryIng trays                          9j625       9.625    19,250        130.0      f          220.0      5o
Sub-Total                      9,625      64,1299   73,92h       110.0      7.34.8      84a.8      86
Contingency at 10 percent        963       6,430     7,391        11.0        73.5       84.5       -
ToteaL Inpute                 10.588      70.729    81.315        121,0      808.3      929.3      86
Technical Services
Staff Costa                                                                                    369.0
Expatriate                          3,229      29,059    32,288         36.9      332.1      5173 1     90
Burundi.an                         45,245        -        45h,245      517.1        -         695 
Other, includes research               2,708      31370      6_7          31.0                  '-        55
Suhb_TotAl                    51,182      32,429    83,611       585.o       370.6      955.6
Contingency at 10 percent      5,118       3,243    81,336721                           15.6        -
Total Technical Services      562$ 3562              91,972           2               1,051.2      39
Grand Total                                 -1,0 2,138                                             62



BUTRUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT ROJECT
Expenditure Schedule
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4       Year 5     Total
- -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -_-_ -   -   -_-_ -  - FBU   '000  -   -
Capital Investment
Vehicles                      1,137         654         117         184        __         2,092
Pulpinf factories             1,400       1.,400      2,800         --                    5,600
Other -/                      1,535       1,962       l.,081                    - 84     4,662
Total investment              4,_072_ 01              3,998         268         --      1773>
Inputs
Pestic ides                  1,030       2,106        3,136       3,136        3,136        A4
Fertilizers                   2,202       5,414       8,627      10,234         8,212    3h,669
Other_ -                      32 7,32                 6,772                              26,691
Total, inputs                            14,912      1920142                  -1, 31-
Technical Services
Staff costs
Expatriate                  8,050       8,o50       8,o50       6,038        2,100     32,288
Burundian                   4,738       8,287      10,448      10,886        10,886    15,245
Other  irncluding research      976       1.167       1.2X7 25                  i.35      6.078
Total services               13,764      17,504      19,725      18,278        14,340    783j6
Contingency (ten percent)       23,643                  4,288       3,869         2,569     16,989
Grand Total                                40,075      47,166      42,557        28.257           3/
I/  Communal pulping centers, track bridges.
2/  Dusters, pruning tools, drying trays.                                                                 7
3 / Difference of BFU 2,000 between total and that in Table 3 due to rounding.



BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEVENT PROJECT
Financial Implications for the Government
In FBU '000
Expenditurev           Receipts/_         Balance               IDA Credit                 Net-Cash Position
Year                   ExDort   OCIT U      -e-            Withdrawals   Service   Repayments   Per Year   Cumulative
Dulty   Taxes   Sale84/                          Charge
1      28,823          -        -        -     -28,823      24,185        181                - _ 4,819    - 4,819
2      40,075           431      81    428     t39,135      33D880        435        -       - 5,690      -10,509
3      47,166         1,887     354  1,549     -43,376      39,778        733                - _ 4,331   -14,840
4      )42,557/       5,153     966   3,098    -33,340      36,216      1,005        -         1,871      -12,969
5      28,255.        9,368   1,756  4,482     -12,649      23,546      1,182        -         9,715      - 3,254
6      12,155        14o,067  2,638   3,713      8,263        -         1,182        -         7,081        3,827
7      12,184        15,344   2,877   3,713      9,750        -         1,182        -         8,568       12,395
8      12,733        15,938   2,988   3,713      9,906        -         1,182        -         8o724       21,119
9      10,610        16,520   3,098   3,713     12,721        -         1,182        -        11,539       32,658
10      10,410        17,114   3,209   3,713     13,626        -         1,182        -        12,444       45,102
11      10,410        17,696   3,318   3,713     14,317        -         1,170      1,577      11,570       568,672
12      10,610        17,696   3,318   3,713     14,117        -         1,158      1,577      11J,382      68,054
13      10,720        17,696   3,318   3,713     14,007        -         1,1146     1,577      11,2814      79,338
14      11,140        17,696   3,318   3,713     13,587        -         1s134      1,577      10,876       90,2114
15      10,410        17,696   3,318   3,713     14,317        -         1,122      1,577      112618      101,832
16      10o4,o        17,696   3,318   3,713     14317         -         1,110      1,577      11,630      1113,462
17      10,490        17,696   3,318   3,713     14,237        -         1,098      1,577      11,562      125,024
18      10,490        17,696   3,318   3,713     14,237        -         1,086      1,577      11,574      136,598
19      10,780        17,696   3,318   3,713     13,947        -         1,074      1,577      11,296      147,894
20      10,850        17,696   3,318  3,713      13,877        -         1,062      1,577      11,238      159,132
21      10,410        17,696   3,318   3,713      14, 317      -         1,028      4,728       8,561      167,693
22      10,610        17,696   3,318   3,713     14,117        -           993      4,728       8,396      176,089
23      10,560        17,696   3,318   3,713     14,167        -           957      4,728       8,4;82     184,571
24      10,760        17,696   3,318   3,713     13,967        -           921      4,728       8, 18      192,889
25      10,570        17,696   3,318   3,713     14,157        -           886      4, 728      8,5C3      201,432
1/  Net of taxes and duties, and excluding short-te'rn credit to OCIBU.  Year one to five:  Project costs.  Thereafter:
Cost for extension staff; fertilizer subsidy up to year eight; vehicle replacement; etc., including a contingency
of ten percent.
2/  Residual value of equipment, constructions, vehicles: FBU 5.885 million.
)/ From increased coffee exports.
Net export earnings from quality coffee sales (see Annex 4, Table 4).



BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Farm Income at Full Development
(Average plot of 160 coffee trees)
Parchment Coffee   Gross                Cumulative                              Net
Per tree  Total     Cash     Quality       Cash             Expenditure         Cash
(ram)     (kg)     Return;!  Premium      Income      Fertilizer  Pesticides   Return   Percent
-                                   FBU -
A.  Before improvement     425     68        2,380       -          -             -            -        2,380     100
B. Improved with regular
pesticides applica-                                                                         31
tion                   625    100        3,500       -        1,120           -           82-       3,418     143
C.  Improved with reglular
fertilizer and pesti-                                                           2/
cides application      825    1.32       4,620       -        2,240          3062         82        4,232     178
D. Treatment (C) and
quality premium 4/     825     132       4,620      525       2,765          306          82        4,757     200
1/  FBU 35 per kg parchment coffee.
2/  22.4 kg of urea at 13.67 FBU per kg, estimated free on-farm sales price.
3/  20 gram per tree and 25.75 FBU per kg, estimates free on-farm sales price.
17/ Assuming that OCIBU will distribute half of the net return from improved quality among the 4,000 farmers who would
sell cherry to the proposed pulping factories.



ANNII 6
Table 7
BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE I14PROVESMET PROJECT
Estimated Increased Production, Benefits and Costs
Increased Arabica
Coffee Production             BVntit4- g                               osts2/                      Total
Year     Total        Quality               Total      Quality     Capital  Farm inputsw Technical   Total   Net Benefitsz/
Coffee 4/                        Coffee 4/           Requisites     Services
- - - - - Tons - -                                                FBU '000 - - - - - - - - - -
19693/     -            ( )                                         4,480      9,200       15,140   28,860     -28,820
1970        40          (50)                2,710        (340)      4,420     16,400       19,250  40,160      -37,360
1971       175         (150)               11,390      (1,020)      4,400     21,070       21,690  45,730      -35,770
1972       478         (300)               30,360      (2,040)        300     22,160       20,110  41,130      -12,210
1973       869         (400)               54,220      (2,720)       -        12,482       15,770   28,170     +25,968
1974     1,256         (400)               80,170      (4,200)       -         8,120       10,840   18,960      61,210
1975     1,370         (4oo)               88,590      (4,200)        240      8,780       10,410   19,430      69,160
1976     1,423         (400)               91,860      (4,200)        570      9,440       10,410   20,420      71,440
1977     1,475         (400)               95,060      (4,200)        200      9,430       10,410   20,040      75,020
1978     1,528         (400)               98,320      (4,200)       -        10,090       10,410   20,500      77,820
1979     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)       -        16,740       10,410   27,150      74,400
1980     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)        200     18,220       10,410   28,830      72,720
1981     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)        310     18,220       10,410   28,940      72,610
1982     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)        730     17,540       10,410   28,680      72,870
1983     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)       -        10,090       10,410   20,500      81,050
1984     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)       -        10,770       10,410   21,180      80,370
1985     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)         80     10,770       10,410   21,260      80,290
1986     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)         80     10,770       10,410   21,260      80,290
1987     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)        370     10,090       10,410   20,870      80,680
1988     1,580         (400)              101,550 i    (4,200)        440     10,090       10,410   20,940      80,610
1989     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)       -        16,740       10,410   27,150      74,400
1990     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)        200     18,220       10,410   28,830      72,720
1991     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)        150     18,220       10,410   28,780      72,770
1992     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)        350     17,540       10,410   28,300      73,250
1993     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)        160     10,090       10,410   20,660      80,890
1994     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)        440     10,770       10,410   21,620      79,930
1995     1,580         (400)              101,550     (4,200)          80     10,770       10,410   21,260      80,290
1996     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)         80     10,770       10,410   21,260      80,290
1997     1,580         (400)              101,55C      (1,200)        200     10,090       10,410   20,700      80,850
1998     1,580         (400)              101,550      (4,200)       _        10,090       10,410   20,500      81,050
1/   Benefits to the economy are estimated in percent of the value of exportable coffee, FOB Dar-es-Salaam, as
follows: 65 percent to farmers; 16 percent to the Government; 3 percent to OCIBU; and 4 percent to commerce;
totaling 88 percent. Added to this are benefits from coffee quality improvement, which are estimated at 15
percent of the value, FOB Dar-es-Salaam, for the tonnage of high quality coffee, which is expected to be
produced by the proposed pulping factories.
2/   Costs are net of duties and taxes, but include a 10 percent contingency. They are the estimated project costs
including the unsubsidized cost of the proposed fertilizer sales program for year one to five. Costs after
year five include costs for replacement of vehicles and equipment; fertilizer, pesticides and periodical
renewal of farm requisites; and costs of extension staff and running costs of pulping factories, etc.
3/   Assumed year of project initiation.
4/   Included in total.
i/   The discounted rate of return to the economy based on the stream of total net benefits and costs would be
about 32 percent.



BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IPROVE;MiT PROJECT
Proposed Financing and Disbursement of IDA Credit
(Figures are rounded)
Year      Year       Year      Year       Year        Total
1         2          3         4
- - - - - - - - - - - - - US$ p000 - - - - - - 
A. IDA Credit
100 Percent Disbursement:
Vehicles                      19.0      8.5       1.8        2.7        -           32.0
Pulping factory equip-
ment                          2.5      2.5        5.0        -         -          10.0
Pesticides                   1i.0      27.0      4o.o       40.0       40.0       161.0
Fertilizer                    27.6     68.0     108.4      128.7      103.1       435.8
Crop dusters                  7.7       7.7       7.6         -         -          23.0
Pruning tools                12.4      19.2      19.2       19.2        -          70.0
Sub-Total              83.2    132.9      182.0     190.6      143.1        731.8
70 Percent Disbursement:
Drying trays                  30.0     46.0      46.o      416.2        -         168.2
Construction works            7.0       7.0      10.0         -         -          24.0
Materials and services        42.4     57.1       53.l4     28.1       12.0        193.0
Salaries and wages          113.0     144i.0    16o        149.0      114.0       683.0
Sub-Total             192.4    254.1      272.4     223.3      126.0      1,068.2
B. Government Contribution       53.8      71.0      84.6       72.6       53.8       335.8
Grand Total          329.4    458.o      539.0     486.5       322.9     2,135.8
32                                              _., _             co =



BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
LOCATION           OF PROJECT AREA                                               MAPI
R           W            A
_ N              w    |    -      Nt~~V'  '-4      ................
.   ........ ... '                                                     & 2
BUBAN2A  K) .. (i
u~  ~~. (                   (      \MU      | ,OAMcVYAs
BUJUU           0 .
Z                                                                         R1            UOYIGI        /
CI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F R'D2 .9 
JUNE 1968
rj~~~~
P-oin- adminitration
U.1                                                     0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'Arndo SSomd--t(Di.trict)
-    iternational boun.dary
Pr-in- boun.dary
Surfacd maim rod
Oth., ..min rod
______ Dista....s  in kilomter
L ...                         I~~~~~~~~~~ 5 1i 15 20 25KM
JUNiE 1968                                                                                                    IBRD522690



BURUNDI
ARABICA COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREA                                               P 2
National road            t                                     /                             .
Main road                              j
- _ - - - - - Secondary road
_ .   _ International boundary  Km 5  0  5  i0s  i  20)m.t
Provincial boundary
Project area
*~~-_.     /- -~-.-3--  _i'    
\           . butaq >~~lae   '  -1o Ntnon e                                    M _yt UYJNGA C
- - --\m*-  ts  , .1 ,, X < , ,
>'   \       _    \)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ MuUua   ., ~~~~~~~~sr,  ,  _   ){                     >
BUBANZA } i \ / t ), \ 4KARUZI  /     a
11?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
/~~~\                                                                         S }< A   _>JSK t
_IF-
1~*BUBANZA                                                            KAUZ
>t) anga J)/              4   _^/~z
JUNE 1968                                                                                          IBRD 2276R



MAP 3
DENSITY                             BURIUNDI
ARABICA   COFFEE    IMPROVEMENT     PROJECT
\\ \\\ ERRATIC
XN   LOW            AREAS OF COFFEE CULTIVATION
MEDIUM
RELATIVELY DENSE                 _
DENSE
AREAS COVERED BY
FERTILIZERS TRIALS   *                 /
I-~~~SA
L X                          '~anz
BUJNR 0
JUNE 1968                                                 IBRD- 2261 R



