RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                     Report No. P - 6 7
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
.They do not accept responsibility for its accurccy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
March 20, 1969



IThERNATIOIIAL DEVELOPM{ENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $1.8 million to
the Republic of Burundi.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        Burundi became independent in 1962 and a member of the Associa--
tion in 1963. Before independence Burundi and neighboring Rwanda formed
the Belgian Trust territory of Ruanda-Urundi, to which the Bank made a
loan of $b.8 million, with the guarantee of Belgium, in.1957 for a road
and lake port project located in what is now Burundi. No arrangements
have yet been made by Belgium, Rwanda and Burundi regarding the succession
to the loan debt; Burundi has in fact been servicing all amounts due under
the loan out of its annual resources fran Belgian economic assistance.
In 1966, the A3sociation made a development credit to Burundi of $1.1
million to improve the water supp-ly system of the capital city, Bujumbura.
The following is a summary statement of the Bank loan to Ruanda-Urundi
and the IDA credit to Burundi as at February 28, 1969:
Loan or                                           Amount  (US$ million)
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower        Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
165       1957   Ruanda-Urundi   Road and Port  L.8
85       1966   Burundi        Water Supply           1.1
Total:                                   h.8    1.1
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others:                    1.8
Total now outstanding           3.0
Amount sold:                  2.9
of which has been repaid   1.6         1.3    _
Total now held by Bank and IDA           1.7    1.1
Total undisbursed                         -      .5        .5
3.     All major contracts for the water supply project have been awarded
and construction is expected to be completed in 1970 as schedulad.



4.        The present project was identified in 1966 by a mission from
the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, and its appraisal by the Association
was completed in March 1968. Negotiations for the proposed credit were
held in Washington in October 1968. The Government was represented by
a delegation headed by Mr. Eric Manirakiza, Director of OCIBU, the
government agency responsible for carrying out the project.
5.        No other operations in Burundi are contemplated in this fiscal
year. The Bank is executing agency for a UNDP road feasibility study which
is expected to be completed by July 1969, which would lead to proposals for
further investments in road development.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
6.        Borrower:                   Republic of Burundi.
Amount:                     Equivalent,in various currencies,
to $1.8 million.
Purpose:                    To help increase the output and
improve the quality of Arabica
coffee production by smallholders
from existing trees.
Amortization:               Over a period of 50 years, includ-
ing 10 years of grace, beginning
May 1, 1979 and ending November 1,
2018; each instalment up to and
including the payment due on
November 1, 1988, to be 1/2 percent,
thereafter to be 1-1/2 percent of
the principal amount.
Service Charge:             3/4 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        A report on the project, entitled "Burundi - Arabica Coffee
Improvement Project"t (TO-673a) is attached.
8.        The econony of Burundi is heavily dependent on coffee.  Coffee
currently accounts for 80 to 85 percent of total exports and the cash
income of about 300,000 farm families comes from growing coffee. Natural
conditions in the highlands of Burundi are particularly suited to the
cultivation of high- quality Arabica coffee, which was successfully
developed under the Belgian Trusteeship. About 80 percent of the existing
coffee trees have been planted since 1948 and can be expected to continae



in economic production for another 30 years. The production of coffee
reached a peak of 22,000 tons in 1959, but thereafter fluctuated around
lower levels, the yearly average for the past four years being about
16,000 tons; furthermore, the quality of coffee exported declined
considerably. The main reason seems to be the reduced effectiveness of
extension services after independence. The Government is well aware of
the importance of coffee for Burundi's economy, as well as of the danger
of having the economy based primarily on one crop. Its current policy
therefore aims at (i) the improvement of cultural and processing methods
in the better growing areas already planted in coffee trees; (ii) the
progressive abandonment of coffee plantations in marginal areas; and
(iii) introduction of other cash crops, such as tea in the highlands.
9.        The proposed project would concern a selected 4,400 ha. area and
44,ooo smallholders in the heart of the coffee-growqing region of Burundi,
and would be carried out over a period of 5 years (1969 to 1973). It
would consist in the implementation of a program of fertilizer trials andl
the establishment of a fertilizer sales program; the provision of farm
inputs and tools to participating farmers; the construction of four
pulping and fermenting factories and the improvement of existing pulping
centers; the improvement of coffee tracks; and the financing of extension
services which would also provide in-service training for Burundi coffee
extension and processing personnel. OCIBU, a government agency respon-
sible for coffee development, would carry out the project on behalf of the
government. The total cost of the project is estimated at $2.2 million
equivalent, of which $1.4 million would be in foreign exchange. The
proposed IDA credit of $1.5 million would finance total foreign exchange
costs and 50 percent of local costs. It is expected that goods with an
estimated value of about US$0.7 million would be obtained through inter-
national competitive bidding; about $0.35 million would be disbursed for
goods produced locally, and about $0.60 million for services. Approxi-
mately $0.15 million is unallocated. Purchases of goods costing over
$20,000 would require prior approval by the Association.
10.       It is expected that additional coffee production resulting from
the project would gradually increase to 1,600 tons a year by 1980; some
of it would be of superior quality. No difficulties are foreseen in
marketing an increased production since,under arrangements with the Inter-
national Coffee Agreement, Burundi would be allowed to increase annual
exports gradually to 21,000 tons of coffee by 1973.
ll.       The rate of return to the economy from measurable project bene-
fits would be about 32 percent, assuming a price of 77 cents per kilogram
until 1973 and 80 cents per kilogram thereafter. The project would there-
fore be worth while even at coffee prices substantially lower than those
prevailing at present. It is also expected that improvements in coffee
husbandry achieved under the project would spread outside the project area.



- 4 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUUMENTS AND AUTHIORITY
12.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Burundi and the Association and the Recommendation of the Cormittee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed develop-
ment credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
13.       The draft Credit Agreement conforms generally to the pattern of
agreements for similar projects.
PART V - THE ECONONY
14.       A report on "The Economy of Burundi" (AE-la) is being circulated
separately.
15.       Burundi is small and densely populated, and its income per capita
is among the lowqest in Africa. The development of the modern sector of the
economy has been very limited and the inadequacy of the public services
hampers economic growth.  Although growth increased in the 19501s, external
assistance was required to finance all of the investment, as well as to
support the budget and the balance of payments. The transition to inde-
pendence in 1962 adversely affected the economy because Bujumbura, the
capital, lost its role as commercial and industrial center for an area
which included Rwanda and the Eastern Congo. An understaffed and inexpe-
rienced public administration, and a period of political instability added
to Burundi's difficulties since it became independent. The Government waE
unable to maintain the agricultural extension services after the departure
of most of the Belgian staff, and production of coffee and cotton, the
only two export crops, declined at a time when world prices were also
declining. This precipitated a serious financial crisis; the budget deficit
grew, external reserves declined, and prices increased rapidly.
16.       A major step to restore economic stability was taken in February
1965, when a comprehensive stabilization program was introduced as part
of a standby arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. This program
included a devaluation of the currency, the introduction of restrictive
fiscal and monetary measures and a liberalization of external trade and pay-
ments. As a result the current budget deficit was reduced and increase in
prices slowed down. Public sector investment increased, but private illnest-
ment remained stagnant for reasons largely beyond the control of Burundi.
External assistance has tripled since 1962 and has covered about twfo-thirds
of public sector investment and two-thirds of the current balance of oay-
ments deficit. However, despite these efforts, the public sector has
continued in deficit and the external reserves continue to decline.
17.       The basic cause of the public sector deficit has not been an
undue expansion of the public services. It is rather that the growth of
the econorm and exports has been inadequate to generate sufficient savings



or tax revenue. The Government has recently organized major programs to
increase and diversify agricultural production. There are projects for
coffee, cotton, tea and rice production, and other projects to develop
new crops or growing areas are under consideration. However, any signi-
ficant increase in exports, which must form the basis for greater
Government revenues, is not expected for four or five years and hence the
current budget will remain in deficit over this period. Given that
foreign exchange reserves should not be further reduced, the scope for
local borrowing, including borrowJing from the central bank, is extremely
small. At the present time, public investment and a part of the current
budget are being financed from foreign assistance and the allocation of
funds for investment by the Government only increases the need for funds
from abroad to support the current budget. In these circumstances, there
is a strong case for financing a large proportion of the cost of high
priority projects, including some local expenditure.
18.       In the longer run it wiill be important not only to increase the
production of crops for export but also to raise the efficiency of agri-
cultural production for the domestic market. This will not be easy in
view of the wide dispersion of the peasant population and its isolation
from market forces. The population is growing rapidly and even if prio-
rity is given to the introduction of a control program it wfill be some
time before its effects make themselves felt. For Burundi to achieve a
rate of economic growth sufficiently rapid to bring about an appreciable
rise in living standards will necessarily take a long time.
19.  Burundi's current external debt service ratio is 2.1 percent.   HoI-
ever, with Burundi requiring external finance to cover the current budget
deficit as well as public investment, new debt service w-ill only add to
the gross external assistance required. Burundi should, therefore, under-
take external borrowing on the most concessionary terms obtainable.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGRE.=T
20.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply wzith the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECO]S-ELDATION
21.       I recomnend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
March 20, 1969



