CREDIT NUMBER 147 BU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Coffee Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 11, 1969


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 147 BU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Coffee Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 11, 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 1969, between the REPUB-
LIC OF BURUNDI (hereinafter called 1,he Borrower) and
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCUTION (hereinafter
called the Association) :
ARTICLE I
Credit* Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961, as amended Febru-
ary 9, 1967 (said Development Credit Regulationi, No. 1
being hereinafter called the Regulations) with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever used in the Development Credit
Agreement have the following meanings:
(a) " OCIBU" means the Office des Cultures Indus-
trielles du Burundi established aid operating under Royal
Decree no. 001/464 of June 18, 1964 and includes any
successor thereto;
(b) "Project Area" means the region of about 600
square kilometers around and including Ngozi and Kayanza,
in Ngozi province of north-central Burundi.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make avail-
able to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the
Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one million eight-hundred thousand dollars
($1,800,000).


﻿4
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Regulations and in accordance with the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from
time to time as provided in such Schedule or by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods required for the Project and to be
financed under this Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, as shall be required to
meet payments to be made) for expenditures, in
currencies other than that of the Borrower for
equipment, materials and supplies under Category
I of the allocation set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(ii) the equivalent of 70%/ of such amounts as shall have
been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, as
shall be required to meet payments to be made)
for expenditures under Category II of said Sched-
ule 1; provided, however, that if there shall be
an increase in the estimate of such expendit   the
Association may by notice to the Borrower adjust
the above percentage as required in order that with-
drawals of the amount of the Credit then allocated
to such Category and not withdrawn, continue pro
rata with the expenditures remaining to be made
under such Category.
(b) Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Borrower and the Association, no withdrawals shall be


﻿5
made on account of any expenditures for the Project made
prior to the date of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTIoN 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual instalments payable
on each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 1979
and ending November 1, 2018, each instalment to and in-
cluding the instalment payable on November 1, 1988 to be
one-half of one per cent (  of 1/o) of such principal
amount, and each instalment thereafter to be one and one-
half per cent (1%) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for purposes of Section 3.02
of the Regulations.
ARTICLE III
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall make available the
proceeds of the Credit to OCIBU through extraordinary
budget allocations, to be applied in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement to expenditures on the Proj-
ect, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, (i) the goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit shall be prGcured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loan and IDA
Credits, published by the Association in February, 1968


﻿6
and in accordance with such other procedures supple-
mentary thereto as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, and (ii) contracts for the procurement
of all goods shall be subject to the approval of the Asso-
ciation.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, all goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out by OCIBU with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in accordance with sound agricultural, engineer-
ing, economic and financial policies and practices and shall
make available promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) In carrying out the Project the Borrower shall cause
to be employed by OCIBU a competent and experienced
Project Manager, an Extension Officer, a Training Officer
and a Processing Officer, as well as other appropriate per-
sonnel, acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, to
comprise a Project Department. The nature and scope of
the responsibilities of the senior personnel of such De-
partment, and the other terms and conditions of their
employment, shall be determined by agreement between the
Borrower, acting after the date of this Agreement through
OCIBU, and the Association.
(c) The works and facilities included in the Project
shall be constructed to general design standards satisfac-
tory to the Borrower and the Association. Upon request
from time to time by the Association, the Borrower shall
promptly cause to be furnished to the Association the
plans, specifications and work schedules for the Project, and


﻿7
any material modifications subsequently made therein, in
such detail as the Association shall request.
(d) To construct the civil works included in the Project,
the Borrower shall cause to be employed by OCIBU, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association, qualified and experienced contractors accept-
able to the Borrower and the Association.
(e) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to identify the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in
the Project, to record the progress of the Project (includ-
ing the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the ex-
peIditures and availability of funds in respect of the works
and facilities included in the Project, of OCIBU and of any
other department or agency of the Borrower responsible
for the construction, operation or maintenance of such
works and facilities or any part thereof and shall enable
the Association's representatives to inspect the Project,
the operation of the works and facilities included therein,
the goods and any relevant records and documents.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the works and
facilities included in the Project to be operated and main-
tained, and to be renewed from time to time as necessary,
in accordance with sound agricultural, engineering, eco-
nomic and financial policies and practices.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause OCIBU to
have such powers, facilities and resources as are necessary
for the diligent and efficient carrying out and operation
of the Project.
(b) Any import, exchange or other licenses required for
the importation of goods for the Project shall be issued
by the Borrower without delay, and all such goods shall
be exempt from any tax on the importation thereof.


﻿8
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower
and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views through their representa-
tives with regard to the performance by the Borrower of its
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition with
respect to the Project, of OCIBU and of any other agency
of the Borrower responsible for the carrying out of the
Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Credit and the
maintenance of the service thereof, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit, the goods financed out of such
proceeds, the Project, and the administration, operations
and financial condition with respect to the Project, of
OCIBU and of any other agency of the Borrower respon-
sible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
Such information shall include information with respect to
financial and economic conditions in the territories of the
Borrower and the international balance of payments posi-
tion of the Borrower.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the per-
formance by the Borrower of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
SEOTION 4.05. As part of the information to be furnished
under Section 4.04(b) above, the Borrower shall, within
three months following the close of each fiscal year of
OCIBU, furnish to the Association appropriate financial


﻿9
statements and reports certified by auditors acceptable to
the Association.
SECTION 4.06. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.07. This Agreement shall be free from any
taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the Bor-
rower or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection
with the execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 4.08. Except as the Association and the Bor-
rower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes to
insure or cause to be insured the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace
or repair such goods.
SECTION 4.09. (a) The Borrower shall at all times pro-
vide or cause to be provided to OCIBU appropriate short-
term credit in adequate amounts for the operation of the
pulping factories constructed under the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall also provide the necessary funds
and personnel to provide agricultural extension and other
technical services in the Project Area after completion of
the Project and shall at all times cause such services to
be made available to growers and processors through an
adequate staff of officers trained in techniques appropriate
to the Project. For the purpose, OCIBU's Project Depart-
ment will be adequately staffed with trained personnel for
the supervision and execution of field work, and trained


﻿10
agricultural officers and moniteurs will be made available
in adequate numbers either from the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Animal Husbandry or the Gitega and Karuzi
schools, as and when required.
SECTION 4.10. The rate of taxe rImun'ratoire on coffee
exports shall be adjusted from time to time by the Bor-
rower to such levels as shall be necessary to provide OCIBU
with funds sufficient to cover its annual operr+ing expenses
attributable to coffee. The Borrower shall inf rm the Asso-
ciation prior to any change in the current procedures for
assessing and collecting such tax.
SECTION 4.11. Subsidies currently provided by the Bor-
rower to coffee growers i the Project Area in respect of
fertilizers, small farm tools and similar items shall be
progressively reduced or withdrawn over a period of time
to be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 4.12. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Asso-
ciation to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of the Regulations shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower, then at any
subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Asso-
ciation, at its option, may declare the principal of the
Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately,


﻿and upon any such declaration such principal shall become
due and payable immediately, anything in this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. If this Development Credit Agreement
shall not have come into force and effect by July 15, 1969,
this Development Credit Agreement and all obligations
hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association, after
consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a
later date for the purposes of this Section. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date for withdrawals from
the Credit Account shall be December 31, 1973 or such later
date as may be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Boite Postale 1830
Bujumbura
Burundi
Cable address:
Minifinance
Bujumbura


﻿12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
SEcTIoN 7.03. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated for the purposes of Section 7.03 of the
Regulations.
IN WITNEss WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ TERENCE NSANZE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
U.S. Dollar
Category                                       Equivalent
I. Imported _Eqipment, Materials and Supplies:
a. Vehicles and pulping factory equipment 38,000
b. Pesticides and fertilizers            543,000
c. Small farm tools and materials         84,000
II. Locally Procured Equipment, Materials
and Services:
a. Civil works, construction materials,
and services                           197,000
b. Drying trays                          154,000
c. Salaries and wages for technical services 621,000
III. Unallocated                                163,000
Total                                 1,800,000
Reallocations upon Changes in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of items under Categories
I or II shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allo-
cated to, and no longer required for, such Category will be
reallocated by the Association to Category III.
2. If the estimate of the cost of items under Categories
I or II shall increase, the Association will, at the request of
the Borrower, reallocate from Category III to the appro-
priate Category an amount equivalent, in the case of Cate-
gory I, to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and in the case of Cate-
gory II, an amount equal to 70%fo of such increase, subject,
however, to the requirements, as determined by the Asso-
ciation, for contingencies in respect of the cost of the items
in other Categories.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the improvement over a five-year period
of the production and quality of coffee from about seven
million existing coffee trees in the Project Area, and in-
cludes the following:
(1) The creation of a Project Department within
OCIBU comprising supervisory and field person-
nel for the management of the Project and the ex-
tension of improved coffee production methods, in-
cluding pulping, fermenting and drying;
(2) The provision of in-service training for extension
and processing personnel;
(3) The procurement, operation and maintenance of
vehicles for supervisory and extension personnel;
(4) The provision of housing for field workers;
(5) The procurement of equipment and materials for
the implementation of fertilizer trials on planta-
tions in Ngozi province, which will be executed by
the Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi;
(6) The procurement and distribution to participating
growers of pesticides, fertilizer, pruning tools, dry-
ing trays and hand pesticide dusters;
(7) The initiation and operation of a fertilizer sales
program;
(8) The construction, operation and maintenance of
four pulping and fermenting factories, to process
about 400 tons annually of coffee of export quality;
(9) The improvement, operation and maintenance of
about 80 existing communal pulping centers; and


﻿15
(10) The improvement and maintenance of about 350
small bridges on existing coffee tracks.
The Project is expected to be completed by the end of
1973.


