Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reprt No. 7958
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2402-TH)
JUNE 30, 1989
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents .nay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Appraisal Year                              US$1.00 - Baht 23.0
Final Year                                  US$1.00 a Baht 26.6
Fiscal Year of Borrower (RTG)
October 1 - September 30
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations
ARD      Office of Accelerated Rural Development
BOB      Bureau of the Budget
CGO      Controller General's Office
DOA      Department of Agriculture
DOAE     Department of Agricultural Extension
DOF      Department of Fisheries
DOLD     Department of Livestock Development
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
FAO      United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
HYV      High-yielding Variety
IPIED    Information Processing Institution for Education and Development
JICA     Japanese International Cooperation Agency
LDD      Land Development Department
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MOAC     Ministry of Agricultural Cooperation
MOI      Ministry of Interior
NESDB    National Economic and Social Development Board
NRDCC      National Rural Development Coordinating Center
NRDC     National Rural Development Committee
NRDP     National Rural Development Program
PAP        Poverty Areas Program
PCR      Project Completion Report
PPO      Provincial Project Office
PRDCC    Provincial Rural Development Coordinating Center
R3GP     Rural Employment Generation Program
RID      Royal Forestry Department
RTG      Royal Thai Government
TDRI     Thailand Development and Research Institute
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
USAID    United States Agency for Internation.'. Development
VDC      Village Development Committee



FOR OFrfiIL        OLY
THE WORiD BANK
Washifgton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Opwtaokm &Ewuluan
June 30, 1989
MEIRAlDUN TO THE MEXCUTIVE DIRECTORS AMD THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Performance Audit Report ot hEailand
NationRra    l Development Proect (Loan 242-TH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Performance Audit Report on Thailand - National Rural Development Project
(Loan 2402-TH)" prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the pefformance
of their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worfi Dank authoration.



FOR OFFlCLUL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2402-TH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pare No.
Preface      ..........................................................          i
Basic Data Sheet ...        ...............................................    ii
Evaluation Summary .........               ...............*........            iv
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND ......................                              1
A *  Introduction ......................................               1
B.  Objectives ...........................................            2
C.  Project Formulation, Design and Content           ..............  3
D.  Project Cost and Financing            ...........................  5
E.  Implementation Arrangements ..........         ...............    6
F.  Project Documents and Clarity of Objectives          ..........   8
II.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME ............. ..........            9
A.  Implementation History ...... ....................... . .  * . . . . .  .  9
B.  Project Results        ......................................    13
C.  Institutional Impact .................................           16
D.  Economic and Financial Performance ...................           17
III.  FINDINGS AND ISSUES ..............    ...................... .        18
A*  General         ..............................................   18
B.  The Bank's Role and the Project Concept ...... ........          19
C.  Timing and Duration of the Bank Project ..............           21
D.  Program Management Improvement .............. .........          21
E.  Reaching the Rural Poor ......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  23
F.  Perceptions and Reality            ..............................  24
G.  Conclusions .....         .....................................  24
Box 1:  Performance of Investment Subprograms ............           14
Box 2:  Rationalized Project Subprogram Investments ......           18
Box 3:  Impact Evaluation and Village-Level Indicators ...           22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont.d)                                                      Pate No.
REGIONAL OVERVIEW
INTRODUCTION  *********************************  ............               27
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND CONTENT ........              ...................    27
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . ...................... .. . .. . .. . . . .        28
General  *      ...............................................           28
Monitoring and Evaluation              ..............................     29
Special Studies ........  31
Poverty Areas Subprograms               ..............................    31
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING . ...........                                   36
PROJECT RESULTS ..................                                          37
Economic Re-evaluation .*.. ........... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  38
Sustainability .........................................                  40
BANK PERFOPRMANCE ......................                                    40
LESSONS LEARNED .........**........... * ** ** ** * ** **** * * * *         41
COtMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
ATTACHMENT: Comments from the Office of the National Economic
and Social Development Board                .......................  43
Map: IBRD 17589



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2402-TH)
PREFACE
1.       This is the Project Performance  Audit Report (PPAR) for the Thai-
land National Rural Development Project, involving an IBRD Loan in the
amount of US$50.0 million to the government, with the objective of (1)
strengthening planning. budgeting and management aspects of the newly ins-
tituted National Rural Development Program, and (2) alleviating poverty in
rural areas. The loan was approved on March 29, 1984 and became effective
on Aug. 14, 1984. The Bank loan was closed on schedule on June 30, 1988.
The final disbursement was made on October 25, 1988 and the unutilized
balance of US$5.2 million was cancelled on November 25, 1988. An amount of
US$8.5 million was cancelled earlier, making total cancellations US$13.7
million. Parallel financing was provided by the Japanese International
Cooperation Agency (JICA) (US$2.1 million), the United Nations Development
Program  (UNDP)  (US$0.5  million),  and   the  United  States  Agency  for
International Development (USAID) (US$5.0 million).
2.       The PPAR consists of a Project Performance Audit Memorandum (PPAM)
prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED), an Overview of the
Project Completion Report (PCR) prepared by the Bank's regional office for
Asia, and a PCR prepared by the government's National Rural Development
Coordinating Center (NRDCC), with the assistance of the World Bank/FAO
Cooperative Program (FAO/CP). The government also submitted with the PCR
an ex-post evaluation study prepareA by staff of Kasetsart University.!/
The PPAM is based on the PCR, the Overview, the Staff Appraisal and the
President's Reports, the loan documents, a study of project files, and on
discussions with Bank staff.   Impact  studies  of rural development in the
North and Northeast by staff of Chiang Mai University and Khon Kaen
University respectively have also contributed to the PPAM. An OED audit
mission, which visited Thailand in October 1988, held discussions with
staff of the concerned agencies and inspected a sample of project
activities and  sites  in  the  North  and  Northeast  Regions.    The Bank
expresses its appreciation to the officials of the ministries and other
agencies of the borrower involved in the coordination and implementation of
the project, Kasetsart University, the PAO/CP and the cofinanciers, for
their valuable assistance in preparing this report.
3.       The PCR and  Overview  provide  an  account  and assessment of the
project experience, and discuss the performance of the Bank and the project
executing agencies. The PPAR elaborates on particular aspects such as the
Bank's role and project concept, the timing of the Bank assistance, program
management improvement, poverty targetting and beneficiary participation,
and the evaluation of NRDP results.
4.       Following standard OED procedures,  copies  of the draft PPAR were
sent to the Government, the Borrower and to USAID, UNDP and JICA on May 12,
1989. Comments received from the government, dated June 13, 1989, are
attached.
1/ The government's PCR and the accompanying evaluation study are too bulky
for general circulation but copies are on file in OED for use as
required.



- ii| -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2402-TH)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal         Actual or         Actual as X of
Exp ctstion    Curront Estimate   Appraisal Estimate
Projoet Cost (USS million)              167.2              91.6                58.2
Loan Amount (USS million)                60.0              36.8 La             72.6
Cofinancing (US$ million):
- USAID                                                    6.0
- JICA                                                     2.1
- UNDP                                                     0.5
Economi¢ Rate of Return (X)             12.4                 -
Financial Rate of Return (X)              -                  -
Institutionsl Performance                               Adequato
Technical Porforance-                                   Adequate
Number of Direct Benoficearies
(households)                        2 millon        2 million (b)             100
KEY PROJECT DATES
Date of Board Approval                                  08/20/84
Date of Efftctivoness                     -              06/14/64
Date physicol coeponente comploted   09/80/8U  (a)       18/31/67
Proportion t-sn completed (X)          100                91                  01
Closing Date                          06/80/s           06/80/86                100
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY86        FY86        FY87         FY88
Appraisal Estimate (SS million)                  0.8 O9.0                50.0 0.0
Actual (USS million)                             5.2         18.8        26.8         88.8
Actual as X of Estimate                         85.60        44.8        58.6         72.6
Amount Cancelled: USSUS million on October , 1986
USS6.2 million on November 25, 1698
18.7
Date of final disbursements          October 25, 1906
Principal repaid to (mo/d.y/yr) (US$ million)    -             -           -
STAFF INPUTS
(staff weeks)
FY62   FY88   FY04   FY65   FY68   FY67   FY66   TOTAL
Preappralsal (c)           7O.1    6. 0                                       126.0
App sisal                          20.2   22.1                                 42.2
Nogotiations                               7.6                                  7.6
Supervision                                4.8   37.0   21.8  24.1   16.4   164.3
Other                         .1   14.2    3.0    1.3                          16.7
Subtotal                  70.2   90.3   87.1   86.9   21.0   24.1   16.4   20"0.
(a) Loan Agreemnt shows 06/80/67 as Completion Date.
(b) Audlt was unable to verify this figure.
(c) Doo not Include the first two Identification missions (see over) for which
time recording date were not traced.



- ,ii -
MISSION DATA
Date    No. of  Staff/Days Sp.cialization  Performance                  Types of
to/vr)  Porsona   in flold   roeroesnted /b  Ratina /c    Trend Id    Problem. sr
Idontification t    07/79       5         106        csi,s,oob
tt     11/79      2          S2           c,s
UII     1/82       5         196         a,ze,zi
Preparation    I    4/02        7         112        3a,b,xI,o
tI     7/82       2          20           r,h
III     11/02      9         166     g,ts,b,tid,g,t
IV    01/03       2          35           2d
Appraisal            04/8S      6          a6        a,b,2d,t
Subtotal                                632
Supervislon    I    01/66       5          So        2*pb,c,d,         2            2             0
II     11/86      6          so        2&,b,c,d,         2            -           F,M
II      96/"8      4          40         2a,b,c           2            -           F,M
IV     04/07      8          85E         2a,b            2            -           F,M
Subtotal                                175
Total
OTHER PROJECT DATA
sorrop r                               Kingdom of Thailand
Extcuting aency                        National Economie and Social  Development Board (NESMO)
Fiscal year of borrower                October 1 - September 80
Name of currEncy (abbroelvtion)        Baht (8)
Appraisal yjr aver9ge (108M)          S.81.00 a I 28.
Intervening yers average (19"4-67)  US1.900 a O 26.7
Completion year avorge9  (1968)      USf1.09 a O 26.0
Follow-on projet: NONE
La  Cancelled USJ18.7 million.
lba a agriculturiet; b a aqricultural economlt; c * financitl analyst; d a MAE specialist; * a  engineer;
f * livestock specialist; 9 a anthropologist; h a health; I a organization specialist; t a training.
/a  1 a proble-ree, or minor problems; 2 a *oderato problems; and 8 a major problems.
Id 1 * Improving; 2 a stationary; 8 a detortorating.
L. F a financial; N a managerial; and 0 a other.



- iv -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2402-TH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.       This su mmarizes the  Project  Performance  Audit Memorandum (PPAM)
for the Thailand National Rural Development Project, for which the Bank
approved a loan of  US$50  million  on March  29,  1984.   The project was
supported also by cofinancing of US$7.6 million from the USA, Japan and
UNDP. The Bank funds supported 18 investment subprograms under the govern-
ment's ongoing Poverty Areas Program (PAP) in designated poverty districts
within the existing National Rural Development Program (NRDP) of the Fifth
Five-Year Plan (1982-1986).1/ Cofinancing was for development of the moni-
toring and evaluation (M&E) system, studies, technical assistance and
training. The Bank loan was closed on schedule on June 30, 1988 and
US$13.7 million of unused funds were cancelled.
2.       Poverty is overwhelmingly  a  rural  problem  in  Tha4l%n1.  About
three-quarters of Thailand's population of about 53 million live in rural
areas and earn their living principally from agriculture. Over one-third
of the rural population is regarded as living in a state of absolute po-
verty. Average incomes vary greatly by regions, with the North at one-
third, Northeast one-fifth, and South at half of the Central Region.
Objectives
3.       The project's main objectives were  to:  (1)  strengthen planning,
budgeting and management aspects of the newly instituted National Rural
Development Program, (2) to alleviate poverty in rural areas.
4.       These  objectives  were   to   be   achieved  through  three  main
components:
(1) Strengthening of che monitoring and evaluation system (USAID
and JICA assistance).
1/ The reader should note especially that this report is not an ex-post
evaluation of the whole of NRDP or PAP, but of the much smaller Bank-
assisted project. This was funded by Loan 2402-TH over a limited period
between mid-1984 and mid-1988.    There  is  also some reference to Bank
involvement in strategy aspects of rural development during earlier
preparation, to parallel sector mission discussions and in brief to
developments since the project was completed.



- v -
(2) Special studies to identify and correct weaknesses in NRDP
(UNDP and USAID assistance).
(3) Support for 16 agricultural and two infrastructure subprograms
(Bank assistance).
The project was presented in the Bank as the first of a series to support
poverty alleviation, including through health and education aspects of
NRDP.
Implementation Experience
5.       The project was  implemented  through the organizational framework
of the NRDP established in 1982 under the Fifth Plan. One of the four
programs in NRDP was the Poverty Areas Program, which included the 18
subprograms to  which  the  Bank  loan  funds  were  allocated.   With some
exceptions (detailed in the PCR and PPAM) the subprograms and related
activities received most of their budget allocations. Imp.' .tation of
the subprograms and related institutional components proceed.. with mixed
success. Some programs were modified during implementation as intended at
appraisal, when a flexible approach was advocated.
6.       The monitoring and evaluation component  was financed by USAID and
JICA (with the latter's contribution, a mainframe computer, arriving before
the Bank loan became effective).    The  M&E  component was not designed in
detail at appraisal nor was the project agreement with USAID signed at the
time the Bank loan was approved.    A combination of delayed recruitment of
technical assistance (which was to work out operational details of the
component) and doubts about the feasibility of the M&E plan by USAID, led
to the component not starting up as planned and not producing the evalua-
tion outputs expected at appraisal.    This has made impact assessment dif-
ficult, but M&E performance has since improved and is now making a valuable
contribution to planning and implementation.    Financing of the M&E compo-
nent by USAID continued through to early 1989.
7.       Signing of the  UNDP  agreement  with  government was delayed such
that the 12  studies  relating  to  policy  and program implementation were
late, although the Bank Overview of the  PCR reports that a majority of the
study recommendations on management aspects were accepted and implemented.
A planned study relating to preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan was not
carried out under the project.
8.       Training of farmers and  staff  (including under the Bank-assisted
subprograms) went largely according to plan or exceeded targets. Planning
and implementation capability of the program staff were thereby improved.
9.       Not surprisingly  for  an  ongoing  program  with strong political
support and participation at the highest levels, construction and physical
aspects of investment subprogram implementation went quite well, except for
some redesign and adjustments in several which had technical problems but
Improved during implementation, and two which had littlo success. Tech-
nical problems with some investment subprograms and resultant redesign or
modification are detailed in the PPAM and PCR.



- vi -
10.      During implementation three main problems  were of concern to Bank
supervision stafft the slow rate of disbursement of Bank funds, delayed
start-up of the monitoring and evaluation component and the delayed annual
meeting of project donors.  Disbursement  &.lays were caused by late imple-
mentation, delayed establishment of the special account, documentation
problems and in the audit's view probably because there was no direct
linkage between the project's investment activities and the flow of Bank
funds. The annual donors' meetings, to review progress, were intended at
appraisal as a main means of coordinating donor roles but the first of
these meetings was delayed, only one other is on record and meetings were
less substantial than originally intended.
11.      Supervision by the Bank during  implementation was heavy but defi-
cient in some respects.   There  were  only  four missions at an average of
nine-month intervals, but with the first not starting until five mcnths
after effectiveness of the Bank loan (during a period which was marked by
the delayed start and  problems  of  both  the  UNDP and USAID components).
Although staff inputs were very low in the first year of supervision they
then became unusually high. The first two missions were led by a staff
member without previous experience of the project and neither of the two
principal staff who prepared and appraised the project participated in
supervision. The PCR notes that although the M&E component was encoun-
tering difficulties, the Bank did not send an M&E specialist on the last
two missions.
Results
12.      In the absence of M&E data  the  results and impact of the 16 pro-
ductive subprograms assisted by the Bank are not entirely clear. Audit
analysis of impact and sustairibility aspects of 16 productive subprograms,
based on PCR accounts, indicates six were without major problems and are
regarded as successful, eight had moderate problems but achieved some or
most of their objectives, and two had very little success to report. (Box
1 in the PPAM summarizes physical achievements and PCR comments on subpro-
grams.) The PCR estimates overall physical achievements of the subpro-
grams, including the two infrastructure subprograms, at 91X, with some
variation (See Box 1). The audit notes that these achievements relate to
the means to achieve objectives rather than objectives themselves. Com-
ments in the PCR indicate that the production objectives of the subpro-
grams,  and  therefore  their   poverty  alleviation  impacts,  are  either
uncertain (because of the lack of objective M&E data or analysis) or that
they are less in some cases than physical achievements would suggest.
Overall therefore the audit has concluded that the achievements of objec-
tives by the Bank-supported  subprograms  were  somewhat less than both the
PCR and Overview suggest.
13.      Achievement of project  institutional objectives  was mixed as
follows: (i) The M&E system was not established as intended and therefore
its use by management to improve and refine the program was limited.
(Later promising development of M&E is discussed in the PPAM.) (ii) The
system for managing and controlling Poverty Areas Program activities has
been improved considerably through unifying NRDP procedures, the review
role of the NRDCC and the links with the Comptroller and Auditor Generals.
Subprogram expenditures can now be traced. (iii) The institutional struc-
ture is well established (Village Development Committees, the Township



- vii -
Councils, and the District and Provincial Development Committees). (i-i)
Bottom-up planning, however, has not yet been introduced, although the
compromise system in place does allow for more local level influence than
before on investment decisions.    The  PCR, project evaluation reports and
other sources indicate, however, that the system has to be developed
further before the needs  of  the  rural  poor  will   4 fully reflected in
planning decisions.   (v)  Training  and  special  studies were carried out
largely according to plan, although with some delay.
14.      Information on production presented in the PCR is based largely on
circumstancial evidence and consequently the reestimated rates of return
were rejected in the Overview as being based on inadequate data.
Sustainability
15.      The brief reviews in the  PCR  of each subprogram include comments
on aspects of 11 of the productive subprograms suggesting that sustaina-
bility is uncertain (Box 1).   In  sorae  other  cases, although there is no
comment in the PCR, field observations and other evidence suggest that
sustainability is  also  uncertain.    Many  of  these  comments  relate to
inadequate technical designs (poor data) and poor farmer interest. The
sustainability of one of the two infrastructure subprograms (Village Water
Resources Development), which was one of the larger subprograms, is com-
promised, according to the PCR, by innppropriate design and poor pond
location suggesting that full use of facilities is uncertain in some cases.
(The Bank's regional office suggests that it is too early to assess
sustainability prospects.)
Findings
16.      The project was prepared and  processed  at  a time when there was
growing reluctance on the part of the government to borrow Bank funds,
although the Bank, conversely, was at that time pursuing an aggressive
lending program given Thailandt's good absorptive capacity. Even so, the
Bank make a valuable contribution to the formulation of Thailand's rural
poverty  program  through  financing   consultants  (under  another  loan),
preparation discussions and the dialogue during sector work over the early
1980s. The project had ambitious objectives including the wider implica-
tions for further Bank lending.   The  relatively small scale of the Bank's
intervention suggests now that these objectives were over-optimistic (a
point noted during processing). The Bank project was an attempt to join an
ongoing rural development program, and change and improve some aspects of
the management of that program, although related institutional aspects were
funded by other donors. In that respect, however, the project was disap-
pointing, especially given the relatively large amounts of Bank staff
resources used.
17.      The audit memorandum  raises  particular  concerns with the Bank's
role and project concept, the timing of the Bank assistance, program
management improvement, poverty targetting and beneficiary participation,
and the evaluation of NRDP results.
18.      In respect of these issues  the audit questions whether the timing
of the Bank loan was appropriate; whether the expected management changes
to an ongoing program were feasible in the circumstances (especially given



- viii -
that the Bank had little influence over these cofinanced activities); whe-
ther the loan had incremental impact; notes that poverty targetting was
inadequate in that PAP had less impact in the poorer villages and benefits
were sometimes unduly concentrated, and agrees with the PCR and Overview
judgements that 'bottom-up" planning (or beneficiary participation), in the
full sense, have yet to be  introduced.   The audit also draws attention to
the different perceptions conveyed by the PCR/Overview and the findings of
the three independent impact evaluations (which raise questions about the
effectiveness of NRDP's poverty alleviation efforts with respect to poverty
targetting and program coverage).
19.      The audit concludes that from the Bank's point of view the project
experience was satisfactory in terms of the rural development policy
assistance the Bank was able to provide in the run-up to the project, but
not fully satisfactory in terms or project results, since: (a) it did not
fulfill the program management objectives, (b) the subprogram investments
had mixed results and sustainability is uncertain to doubtful for parts of
the majority of subprograms, and (c) it did not lead to further Bank
assisted poverty alleviation operations. In relation to the long period of
project identification and preparation, the outcome in lending terms was
unsatisfactory compared with the large amounts of Bank staff resources
employed.



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 2402-TH)
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Introducrion
1.       About three quarters of Thailand's  population of about 53 million
live in rural areas and earn their living principally from agriculture.
There are  about  6.6  million  farm  households.    The agriculture sector
accounts for 21% of GDP, 60% of exports and 76% of employment. Through the
1960s to mid-1970s the sector growth rate exceeded 5%, but this has slowed
to 3.5% since 1975. Poverty is overwhelmingly a rural problem in Thailand.
Over one third of the rural population is regarded as living in a state of
absolute poverty with annual incomes of less than $165 per capita (SAR
para. 1.08). Average incomes vary greatly by regions compared with the
best off Central  Region,  as  follows:    North--one third, Northeast--one
fifth, and South--at half of the Central Region.
2.       The National Rural Development  Project  (Loan 2402-TH approved on
March 29, 1984) was the first and, to date, only broad-ranging rural deve-
lopment project assisted by  the  Bank  in  Thailand.   The loan of US$50.0
million was about 32% of the total project cost of US$157.2 million equi-
valent.   Bank  funds  were  for  village-level  production investments and
infrastructure in the poorer North, Northeast and Southern regions under
the Poverty Areas Program (PAP) component of the government's National
Rural Development Program (NRDP).l/ Parallel financing of NRDP activities
was provided by the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA)
(US$2.1 million), the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) (US$0.5
million), and the United States Agency for International Development
(USAlD) (US$5.0 million). JICA assistance was fully utilized before Bank
loan effectiveness, and the UNDP-assisted component was completed in
September 1986. USAID assistance continued through March 1989. The Bank-
assisted component of the project was completed in March 1987, three months
ahead of schedule. The loan was closed on schedule on June 30, 1988, and
1/ This audit memorandum attempts to avoid the classification confusion
evident in the files and project documents by the following conventions:
The government's  National  Rural  Development  Program  under the Fifth
Five-Year Plan is wNRDPH; one of NRDP's four component programs is the
Poverty Areas Program (PAP), to which the Bank funds were allocated, and
the National Rural Development Proiect under audit is either "the
project' or for variety "the NRD project".



the final disbursement was made on October 25, 1988. US$13.7 million (27X)
of the loan was cancelled.
3.        Previously the Bank had  supported  development of rural areas by
twelve loans and credits.2/ Two of these projects were regional rural
development projects, but this NRD project was intended to be the first in
a series of projects directly supporting alleviation of rural poverty in
the poorer areas ,the relatively better off Central Region was not included
in the project). The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) links the design of the
project with the Bank's earlier experience with rural development in Mexico
(the PIDER Program), Colombia (Integrated Rural Development) and the Korean
Sae-Ma-Ul program. The Bank helped Thai senior staff arrange visits to
these programs during formulation of the government's National Rural Deve-
lopment Program in the early 1980s.
4.       The SAR notes that  national  rural development programs date back
to the early 1940s in Thailand, but that these programs were often under-
funded, short-lived, poorly targetted toward the poor, and that the focus
of such programs tended to shift with each new administration. Generally
the main objective of such programs was the supply of inputs *qith little
emphasis on  program  management  and  efficient  implementation.   The PCR
reports that these earlier programs ran into difficulties caused by over-
centralized decision making and lack of coordination among implementing
agencies which led to low program achievements.
5.       The reader should note especially  that  this report is not an ex-
post evaluation of the whole of NRDP or PAP, but of the much smaller Bank-
assisted project. This was funded by Loan 2402-TH over a limited period
between mid-1984 and mid-1988.    There  is  also  some  reference to Bank
involvement in strategy aspects of rural development during earlier prepa-
ration, to parallel sector mission discussions and in brief to developments
since the project was completed.
B. Oblectives
6.       The objectives  of  the  project  were  twofold:    to improve the
administration of the National Rural Development Program and to relieve
poverty and provide employment  through  direct  investments at the village
level. Bank funding was allocated to the Poverty Areas Program (PAP), one
21 Population  and   Health   (Cr.   767-TH),   Education   (Ln.  1771-TH),
Agricultural  Extension  (Loans.   1393-TH  and  1752-TH),  Agricultural
Research (Ln. 1922-TH), Northern Agricultural Development (Cr. 929-TH),
Land Reform (Ln. 2198-TH), Livestock (Ln. 1199-TH), Northeast Rural
Development  (Ln.  1198-TH),  Electrification  (Loans.  1527,  1817, and
2312-TH).



of four parts of NRDP,31  which was designed by government principally to
attend to 'the needs of the  poor  population who   have missed out on the
development benefits available so far" (Fifth Five-Year Plan). The project
objectives were described in the Staff Appraisal Report (para. 3.04) as
follows:
"M(i) to strengthen the planning, budgeting and management aspects of
the newly irstituted National Rural Development Program, in or-
der to develop a more effective mechanism for identifying local
needs, for channelling funds to rural areas and to increase the
cost effectiveness of Thailand's rural development efforts; and
(ii) to alleviate poverty in rural areas through simple projects to
increase food production, basic nutritional and infrastructure
needs, and to provide employment opportunities......."
The Bank in addition had a longer-term ambition since 'the project is per-
ceived to be the first in a series to support poverty alleviation through
the Rural Development Program and subsequent projects may well support
health and education aspects of the Program" (President's Report, Report
No. P-3744-TH, Loan and Project Summary).
C. Proiert Formulation, Design and Content
7.       The genesis of the project dates  back  to a request from NESDB in
January of 1979 for the Bank to send a mission to assist the government
with formulation of its rural development strategy. The mission that went
some seven months later, however, was charged primarily with reviewing the
merit of a project proposal (the New Village Development Program) which had
been submitted by government in  late  1978.   The report arising from that
mission and a subsequent mission was released internally in mid-1980 but
concluded that there was no need for Bank support of the program at that
stage since it was being funded by the Japanese government. The Bank did
not follow up on government's request for a strategy mission until March
1981 when a sector mission focussed on growth and equity issues in the
agricultural sector.    This  mission  and  related  discussions helped the
formulation of the poverty  program.    In  addition some assistance to the
rural development planning process was provided through funding under
existing projects for related technical assistance and studies. Project
preparation work finally got underway in earnest in January 1982, following
a request for assistance from National Economic and Social Devnlopment
Board (NESDB), with a mission to identify both "Rural Development I' and
'Rural Development II". Two preparation missions then followed in Novem-
ber 1982 and January 1983, and appraisal in April 1983.
3/ The other three were the Rural Employment Generation Program (REGP), the
Security Areas Program (SAP) and the Water Resources Development Program
(WRDP).



- 4 -
8.       Meanwhile in  1982  the  government  had  reorganized its national
rural development effort into a new structure and in October 1982 initiated
the Poverty Areas Program (which absorbed both the village development ac-
tivity and the earlier rural infrastructure proposal, except for rural
roads). The files indicate that Bank staff contributed specifically to-
wards developing an objective methoology for identifying the poorer vil-
lages and thus to targetting investments more directly at poverty at the
village level. Previously the district had been the planning focus (SAR,
para. 2.13). The Bank does not appear, however, to have had any impact on
rationalizing the overlapping subprograms included in PAP (see further
below). The Bank also helped senior Thai staff visit relevant rural deve-
lopment programs in other countries.
9.       The project comprised three main components:
(a)   Strengthening of the  monitoring  and  evaluation (M&E) system
(for which USAID and the Japanese government provided funding)
including periodic analyses of  the poverty alleviating impact
of NRDP.
(b)   Support for special studies to identify and correct weaknesses
in the NRDP through a UNDP  grant  and part of the USAID funds
provided for monitoring  and  evaluation.   Terms of reference
for these studies were not presented in the SAR but were
subject to agreement between the  Bank  and UNDP.  The studies
were to: (a) identify management skills needed to implement
NRDP, (b) to design training programs for NRDP management,
(c) to analyze administrative procedures, policy and effecti-
veness as a basis for formulating the rural development pro-
gram for the Sixth Five-Year Plan, and (d) to identify and
correct design problems in the investment subprograms.
(c)   Selected agricultural and  infrastructural  subprograms of the
PAP to be supported  by  Bank  funds.   The 16 productive sub-
programs were selected from 33 in the PAP for their potential
impact on production and poverty alleviation. The selected
subprograms were as followst
Villate-Based Subprograms
(i) Village Fisheries Development
(ii) Village Woodlots
(iii) Village Coastal Fisheries/South
(iv) Village Small Animal Improvement
(v) Village Cattle and Buffalo Banks
(vi) Village Agricultural Water Utilization
Farmer Participation Subprograms
(vii) Food Production for Nutrition
(viii) Rainfed Rice Improvement
(ix; Upland Crop Improvement
(x) Highland Rice Improvement



- 5-
(xi) Fruit Tree Development
(xii) Livestock Health and Management
(xiii)  Soil Improvement/Crop Residues
(xiv) Saline Soil ImprovementINE
(xv) Acid and Saline Soils/South
(xvi) Soil Erosion Prevention/North
Infrastructure Subprograms
(xvii) Bridge Construction and Replacement
(xviii) Village Water Resource Development
From the above list it is apparent that all but four of the subprograms
were offered in all three regions. Two features of the subprograms deserve
comment. Firstly, as discussed further below, many of the subprograms
overlapped in objectives and means, which suggests that the overall program
was much less extensive than appears from above list. Secondly, the size
of the subprograms (measured in cost terms) varied greatly--the smallest
being only under 3% of the largest two and four others being under 7% of
the largest two (see  below  on  costs).    This  is significant in judging
results. The Bank's support for these investment subprograms included
substantial funds for technical training of government staff, village
leaders and farmer participants (US$8.9 million or 5% of project cost).
Health and education components were also considered for inclusion but
dropped out before appraisal because the Bank preferred a free-standing
health project and preparation of a rural education strategy was not
sufficiently advanced.
10.      The M&E component was to provide for recruitment of specialists to
improve the ongoing M&E system (it had been started some two years ear-
lier), to increase data collection and processing, provide associated
equipment (including a mainframe computer), train M&E staff, and for
"special studies" of (a) aspects of the M&E system and (b) analysis of
selected technical subprograms. The Japanese (JICA) assistance was for the
supply of the mainframe computer which arrived before the Bank project
became effective.
D. Proiect Cost and Financing
11.      Total project costs were  estimated  at  US$157.2 million and were
expected to be financed by the Bank loan of US$50.0 million (32%); USAID
US$5.0 million (3%); JICA US$2.1 million (1.3%); UNDP 0.5 million (0.3%.);
and government $99.7 million (63%). Prior to appraisal it had been thought
that the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would also
cofinance the project, but the files record that shortage of funds pre-
vented IFAD from participating. The project was intended to cover the last
three Thai financial years (1984-1986) of the Fifth Five-year Plan. Four
subprograms dominated the project in terms of being allocated 62% of the
project's funds as follows: Village Water Resources (222 of total funds),
Rainfed Rice (14%), Village (inland) Fisheries (13%), and Bridge Cons-
truction (13%). Over a third of project costs were allocated to the two



infrastructure subprograms for Bridge Construction and Village Water
Resources.
12.      In terms of both cost  and  project content the Poverty Areas Pro-
gram and the Bank's financing were a relatively small part of the total
National Rural Development Program coordinated by the NESDB. (A senior
Bank reviewer commented on file during project processing that the objec-
tives seemed very ambitious in comparison with the small scale of the pro-
ject.) Contrary to the expansive sounding title of the Bank project - The
National Rural Development Proiect - the Bank's financial assistance was
intended for only 18 out of 156 subprograms in the government's ongoing
National Rural Development Program (NRDP), In half of the country's pro-
vinces (i.e. about 11% of the cost and number of subprograms in NRDP).
Bank assistance was to fund 35% of the cost of selected village-level
subprograms in one of the four special rural development programs - the
Poverty Areas Program - in the government's national program. The proposed
cost of the national program for the Five-Year Plan 1982-86 was Baht 54,209
million, of which the PAP was to receive a relatively small portion, Baht
6,077 million or 11.22 of total costs.    For the last three years of NRDP,
while Bank funds were available, Baht 4,305 million was allocated to PAP,
of which under the project the Bank provided Baht 1,053 million equivalent
(24 percent of the PAP funding for the period, but only 1.9 per cent of
NRDP investment costs for the Fifth Plan period).
E. Implementation Arrangements
Production and Infrastructure Subprograms
13.      The project  was  to  be  implemented  through  the organizational
framework of the National Rural Development Program established in 1982.
This was headed by an interministerial National Rural Development Com-
mittee (NRDC), chaired by the Prime Minister, which had its secretariat,
the National Rural Development Coordinating Center (NRDCC), within the
NESD3.   The  structure  then  spread  down  through Provincial Development
Committees and District Development Committees, to Township Councils and
Village Development Committees.    The  Township  Councils are comprised of
members elected from the villages which make up townships.
14.      The planning process for rural  development was intended to create
a 'bottom-up" planning system for small village-level projects. However,
the system did not provide for a free choice of investment projects at the
village level, but offered villages options among a number of subprogram
models approved at national level.    (While this arrangement may have been
attractive to administrators in the center of a centralized program, later
comments 41 about lack of farmer interest, poor design fits with local
features and the need to better tailor subprograms to the specific needs of
4/ In the PCR, evaluation studies and to the audit mission.



the poor demonstrate the weakness  of  the  system.   The project included
under the UNDP-funded component, however, subprogram reviews to identify
and correct design problems, and changes were made - see below.)
15.      Budget  allocations  were  approved  by  Cabinet,  while  the NRDC
approved provincial allocations.    These  provincial  allocations are then
split among individual subprograms  and  Township  Councils are informed of
the approved subprograms from which villages may select. (This system was
introduced under NRDP and while it goes some way to decentralizing plann-
ing, and introducing "bottom-up" planning, later comment drawing on the PCR
and evaluation studies addresses some issues arising.) At this stage the
lead in implementation would be taken by the functional line agency con-
cerned with a given  subprogram.    The  16 production subprograms were im-
plemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives and the two
infrastructure subprograms by the Ministry of Interior through its Acce-
lerated Rural Development Department.   In the many cases where subprograms
require inputs from more than one agency, coordination is achieved at the
Township Council level.
Monitorina and Evaluation Component
16.      The M&E component was  finar.ced by  USAID  and JICA, although the
Bank provided staff assistance to the NRDP subcommittee on monitoring and
evaluation during project preparation in drawing up a framework for
strengthening the system. Operational details were to be worked up during
implementation with the help of technical assistance to be funded by USAID.
It was expected that complementary M&E systems would be strengthened in
each of the technical ministries responsible for subprograms, in addition
to focussing the M&E system on the needs of the Townships, Districts, Pro-
vinces, Bureau of the Budget  and  NRDCC.    The emphasis and prominence of
this part of the project in the documents indicates that it was regarded as
of great importance by the appraising staff, although one senior Bank re-
viewer commented that its importance was overstated. (The project docu-
ments are   ambiguous,  however,  in  describing  the M&E component, as to
whether it focuses purely on the Poverty Areas Program or the NRDP as a
whole.)
Training
17.      At the time of  appraisal,  training activities were under review.
It had been the practice for individual departments within the implementing
ministries to undertake training, but a study financed by USAID had looked
at the possibility of MOAC establishing a specialized training unit. The
SAR supported "some rationalization' of training courses and there was a
provision in the project  documents  that    the Budget Bureau would review
training costs as part of its overall review of the current costs associa-
ted with the Poverty Areas Program.



- 8 -
F.  Project Documents and Clarity of Oblectives
18.      Whether by intent  or  oversight  the project documents, including
the Loan Agreement, sometimes have difficulty distinguishing between the
umbrella National Rural Development Program and that part of it, the
Poverty Areas Program, being supported by Bank funds. Thus the SAR uses
the term "program" almost indiscriminately as though the NRDP and PAP were
synonymous, while the President's Report defines "program" as being the
NRDP, but then describes features of PAP under that title. Treatment of
the monitoring and evaluation component is especially confusing. Although
it apparently was intended to focus on PAP's activities, in some references
it was also expected to improve management information for the whole of
NRDP, a quite different order of work. Even the Loan Agreement is confused
on whether M&E conditionality applied to PAP alone or the whole NRDP (see
para. 3.04 (c) (i) and Schedule 2, (a)). (Complexity was not restricted to
Bank documents, however, as shortly after the project started, changes in
NESDB resulted in responsibility for proiect M&E being in different hands
from NRDP M&E.)
19.      This lack  of  clarity  in  the  project  documents  gives rise to
concern that at the time there may have been an imperfect correspondence
between what the Bank and the government thought were the major objectives
of the Bank's assistance. Comments on file by both Thai and Bank staff on
the draft SAR indicate that this point was raised during the appraisal
process, but the documents do not resolve the issue.
20.      Vagueness or ambiguity  in  project  documents on objectives could
have two important operational consequences:   firstly it is more difficult
to monitor and evaluate progress and achievements and secondly it can only
complicate the relationship between the Bank and the government. In this
case the relationship was already complex enough, given the several govern-
ment agencies involved in PAP, as well as the four cofinanciers. The files
suggest that the Bank also had had broader intentions for this project than
government. These intentions included pursuing a decentralization strategy
for the NRDP structure, largely through the beneficiary participation as-
pect, as well as leading into future Bank loans in the agriculture, health
and education sectors.
21.      In preparing and appraising  the  Bank  project, the Bank selected
some of the subprograms of PAP for support but did not apparently attempt
to rationalize the program's strurture to avoid overlap and competition
between components.   Furthermore,  during  supervision  it was noted that
there were overlaps between project activities and those of the Rural
Employment Generation Program (another of the four NRDP programs) and
various schemes undertaken by the Community Development Department.
22.      Overlaps in the  list  of  subprograms  (see above) were numerous.
For example, one component (Village Water Utilization) was to assist
villagers to better use existing water resources (to grow high value
crops), another subprogram (Food Production for Nutrition) was to help



- 9 -
villagers grow legume and other vegetable crops (the same "high value
crops") for nutritional reasons, while a third component (Soil Improvement
through Use of Crop Residues) was to encourage farmers to use compost (to
produce 'vegetables and other high value crops"). Meanwhile for livestock
there was a "Livestock Health and Management Improvement Subprogram", a
separate "Village Small Animal Improvement" subprogram for breeding,
management and disease prevention in poultry, and a "Village Cattle and
Buffalo Banks' subprogram which was concerned with breeding, management and
disease prevention of animals loaned to villagers. With respect to water
resources, rehabilitation or construction of village reservoirs was pro-
vided for under both the Village Fisheries Development subprogram and the
Village Water Resource component within the infrastructure part of the
project. The somewhat artificial division of the various production sub-
programs into 'Village-Based" and 'Farmer Participation' categories also
tends to add further confusion since all the Village-Based schemes depend
on farmer participation, and some of the Farmer Participation schemes would
require cooperation and participation from most of the village to be fully
effective (e.g. livestock health and soil erosion).
23.      Such overlapping is the  source  of  adverse comment in the files,
both from inside and outside the Bank, and must have made it difficult for
both project implementers and villagers to understand what was intended.
Furthermore, monitoring and evaluation of such an intertwined set of acti-
vities (and by no means all the overlaps are described above) would be
unusually difficult. Accounting for project funds was clearly a complex
and difficult exercise and this may have contributed to delays in submis-
sion of reimbursement requests to the Bank (see below). Implementation
efficiency must also have been affected, resulting in higher costs than
necessary.
24.      An explanation for design overlap,  offered by Bank staff familiar
with Thailand at the time, is that the multitude of PAP subprograms re-
flects the many different agencies with rural development interests and the
inability of the government to rationalize the competing proposals of these
interests into an efficient overall set of activities. While this may be
the reality, it reflects poorly on investment management and tends to por-
tray the NRDP, in part at least, as an institutionally fragmented system
which the Bank was too late, unable or unwilling to influence in the name
of efficiency.
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
A. Implementation History
25.      The Bank loan was intended  to finance PAP investments and aspects
of NRDP management functions over the last three years of the Fifth Five-
Year Plan period (1982-1986). This was from the third fiscal year of the
Plan (October 1, 1983 to September 30, 1984) through to September 30, 1986,



- 10 -
but because the project was not approved until March 1984 disbursements
were to be made against expenditures over only the last two and a half
years of the Five-Year Plan.   An earlier  proposal for retroactive financ-
ing was dropped--without explanation on  the  files.   In the event the go-
vernment did not request reimbursement for any expenditures in FY84 and the
Bank agreed to finance expenditures delayed from FY86 during Thai FY87.
The date of pro4ect completion is recorded as March 31, 1987. Whether this
was six months behind schedule or three months ahead of schedule is a moot
point since the SAR refers to the project covering expenditures up to the
end of the Fifth Five-Year Plan (Sept. 30, 1986), whereas the Loan Agree-
ment shows June 30, 1987 as the completion date.
26.      From the outset progress on the investment subprograms financed by
the Bank under the project was reported to be generally satisfactory, as
might be expected since these activities had been started earlier, 2 1/2
years before the Bank project  was  approved.    (The issue in the circums-
tances of whether the Bank funded incremental activity is raised below.)
Budget allocations generally exceeded 851 of SAR estimates for 13 of the
subprograms with the five subprograms being allocated less as follows:
Village Small Livestock (75%), Village Woodlots (73X), Village Coastal
Fisheries (69%), Saline and Acid Soil Improvement (551) and Soil Erosion
(53%).
27.      Supervision reports record, however, that early problems indicated
that the design of some subprograms needed to be changed. Consequently,
some components were altered to some degree during implementation, follow-
ing technical reviews. This was foreseen as a possibility at appraisal,
since it was known that the various sub-components were not fully field-
tested, and the UNDP-assisted component included provision for the tech-
nical reviews. The ability and willingness to adapt designs as experience
was gained was one of the strengths of the implementation arrangements.
Thus three programs included at appraisal (Village Coastal Fisheries in the
South, Soil Erosion and Saline and Acid Soil Improvement) were cut back in
the FY84 budget (the first year of the project) because of design problems
and weak farmer participation.   The  first  of these subprograms had to be
redesigned to reflect farmer  capabilities.    Problems relating to design,
climatic constraints, labor shortages and other implementation constraints
were also reported for three other subprograms (Bridge Construction, High-
land Rice Production and Saline Soil Improvement).
28.      Three aspects of  project  implementation were  of concern to su-
pervision staff through the early life of the project--the slow rate of
disbursement of Bank funds, the delayed start-up of the monitoring and
evaluation component financed by USAID and the delayed project donors'
meeting. Bank disbursements always lagged well behind appraisal estimates
(at around half or less of the expected rate and eventually US$13.7 million
of the loan was cancelled).    Reasons were delayed implementation, delayed
establishment of the  special  account,  documentation  problems and in the
audit's view, probably because there was no direct linkage between the
project's investment activities and the flow of Bank funds (since these
funds were provided through the budget in any case). Informed project



- 11 -
staff suggested that the Bank funds had no impact on NRDP's scale of
operations.
29.      The M&E component  was  slow moving  because  processing of USAID
financing was not on the same time path as the Bank loan (or closely linked
with it). Also USAID developed reservations about the component's design
and there were delays and changes in the provision of technical assistance
and procurement of equipment.    Inopportune  senior staff changes, on both
the Thai and USAID side, compounded the component's inherent problems since
the new staff either were less committed to the M&E approach or queried the
M&E design concept, respectively. USAID conducted a mid-term review of the
M&E operation in late 1986 which was  highly  critical.5/   (The Overview
reports, however, that the review resulted in improved performance of this
component, but at no  time was  M&E  fully  effective.)   The USAID review
comments that the original component agreement was concluded in June 1984
under pressure from both governments but with reservation-z by both NESDB on
loan funded technical assistance and by USAID on the centralized focus and
(complex) coordination requirements of the M&E project. (Design of this
system was aided by technical assistance funds from the Bank and one of the
Bank's few M&E specialists was involved in the process.) USAID's strong
reservations were conveyed in the interim reviews' report with the general
conclusion that "Major RDME Project  6/   design flaws, particularly unwar-
ranted confidence in a  complex,  centralized grand design to "rationalize'
NRDP monitoring and evaluation and reliance on undemonstrated and tenuous
administrative arrangements, resulted in a project with very h5g: risk of
failure." The audit notes that no evidence of such strong reservations was
on file earlier at the time of appraisal of the Bank project in 1983.
30.      During the project many data were  collected, but little was pro-
cessed into usable output and passed to those who could use it (a common
problem of many M&E components supported by the Bank directly elsewhere, as
reported by OED 71 and others).   The  impact studies of subprogram perfor-
mance were not done promptly enough to provide management input at an early
stage when it would have been useful.   USAID continued to finance the com-
ponent into early 1989, although  the  emphasis had changed towards locally
recruited technical assistance  after  arrangements for overseas assistance
foundered over contract terms.
31.      The poor performance of  the M&E component weakened the planning,
management and execution of the project, and also has made it difficult to
draw firm conclusions on the overall impact of the project. The poverty
5/ Rural   Development   Monitoring   and   Evaluation,   Interim   Review,
December 12, 1986, draft, USAID.
6/ i.e. the USAID project name for the M&E component.
7/ See Rural Development - World Bank Experience. 1965-86, A World Bank
Operations Evaluation Studs, OED, April 1988, ISBN 0-8213-0983-8, page
34 and Annex 2.



- 12 -
impact studies were delayed until 1988 when separate studies of the North,
Northeast and Southern regions were completed (of which the first two were
obtained by the audit  mission  from  NESDB).8/      The importance of esta-
blishing a solid M&E system  (given  the  complexity  of the NRDP) was cor-
rectly foreseen at preparation and appraisal (SAR, para. 3.06). With
parallel financing of the M&E component, however, there was little the Bank
could do to influence matters, although the Bank urged USAID and go-ernment
to move faster. The audit believes, however, that a better defined M&E
component (a criticism during supervision) and perhaps with fuller commit-
ment to the objectives of M&E on the government side, early problems could
have been overcome more  swiftly.    The  Bank's regional office notes that
"work on the M&E component has continued after project completion; the
system is undergoing continuous refinements and its usefulness for planning
and monitoring of poverty alleviati.on programs in Thailand has been widely
acknowledged (projects being prepared by the EEC, US.ID, AIDAB and ADB all
use the socio-economic data base developed by the M&E component)".
32.      The PCR provides training data  on  nine of the 16 production sub-
programs showing that for five of the subprograms training of staff and
farmers was close to, or as much as double, SAR targets. For the other
four subprograms (Nutrition, Upland Crops, Woodlots and Saline and Acid
Soils) achievements were around  50-60X  of  targets.   Some 940 staff were
trained and thereby the planning and implementation capability of the
program staff was improved.    UNDP  assisted  the completion of 12 studies
relating to rural development policy and program implementation aspects,
although these were completed late because signing of the UNDP agreement
was delayed by a year. The Overview reports that the majority of the study
recommendations on management aspects were accepted by NRDC and Cabinet and
were implemented. The planned studies relating to preparation of the Sixth
Five-Year Plan were not carried out under the project.
33.      The first annual donors meeting  to  revieu s..e NRDP annual report
and program progress was delayed beyond the original covenanted date of
November 30, 1984 and was held, after much urging by the Bank, only in May
1985. A second weeting was held in November 1985, but there is no further
reference to annual donor meetings in the files, although there was regular
contact between donor and project staff.
34.      Supervision  by  the  Bank  during  implementation  was  heavy but
deficient in terms of frequency and the staff employed during the early
period. The first of only four missions did not occur until ten months
after loan approval and five months after effectiveness and was led by a
staff member who was not involved in the appraisal process. (Neither of
the two principal staff who prepared and appraised the project participated
8/ (a) An Assessment of the Impact of rural DeveloPment in the Northern
Region, UNISERV, Chiang Mai University, July 1988. (b) Summary Report
of the Evaluation of Local Impact of Rural Development in the Northeast
Region, the Research and Development Institute, Khon Kaen University,
October 1988.



- 13 -
in supervision.) Staff inputs for the crucial first year of the project
totalled only 4.3 staff weeks compared with a planning average of 13.
Thereafter inputs increased sharply to 37.6 in the second year and averaged
a high 21 staff weeks over the next three years. These high staff inputs
after the first year are attributable in part at least to an unusually
large number of people on supervision missions, namely 5, 5, 4 and 3 for
each of the four  missions.    Miss_.n  intervals  were nine, eight and ten
months compared with six months recommended by the first two missions. The
second mission was led by the same staff member who led the first mission,
but with participation by another staff member who led the next and then
the final mission. The project was rated as having 'moderate problems' by
each of the four supervision  missions.    Although it is unclear whether a
more adequate  supervision  effort  would  have  improved  project results,
supervision received  lower  priority  in  some  respects  than the project
deserved. 
35.      The PCR notes in connection with Bank supervision that "individual
specialists were sent when difficulties in disbursements and implementation
of the M&E component  were  encountered.  Mission compositions were satis-
factory and mostly consisted of an agriculturist, an engineer and an eco-
nomist. However, there was no field participation by an M&E specialist
during the last two missions even though very little progress had been made
under this component. Supervision missions succeeded in accelerating dis-
bursements, overseas training and initiation of special studies."
B. Proiect Results
36.      In the absence of M&E  data  the  results  of the productive sub-
program investments are indeterminate in  an objective sense, and the audit
mission's field visits can add only impressions of such a disparate pro-
gram. The audit's analysis of PCR comments on impact and sustainability
aspects of each component is presented    in Box 1 (note that column (a) of
this box refers to physical achievements, which were lmpressive in many
cases--but see pars. 37 below on  objectives).   These indicate that of the
16 productive subprograms, six were without major problems and were
regarded as successful, eight had moderate problems tut achieved some or
most of their objectives, and two had very little success to report (Box
1). In the case of 11 subprograms the PCR makes comments suggesting that
sustainability of some investments may be uncertain.9/
91 The Banks's regional office disagrees with this assessment on the basis
that it is too early to judge.



- 14 -
BOX 1: PERFORMANCE OF INVESTMENT SUWPROGRAMS (PCR data and e_mento unloss stated)
PCR Reservatione
Co)  (b)   (c)
Vii Iage-Based Suboroeram                                                 PCR Coments
1  Village Fisherlos Development        198    a     I   In earlier schee_s low fanrmr participatlon, planned
technical standerds not achieved because poor siting
of pond axnd budgotsry coastraints, production lovolo
uncertain. Probloem overcome for loter schoes, but
returns vory low.
2. Village Woodlote                     115    x     x   Initial probloe  wore unoxpectedly high seedling
demand (no prlor survoy), inadquate supply and low
survlivl rate. Most probloes wore resolved but
survlval rate still low (SOX).
8. Village Coastal Fisherles/South       84    x     x  Subprogrm modiflod and greatly reduced, lnadequately
prepared, achievemsnte vry low.
4. Village Smll Animal Improvemnt   i1O                  Subprogram modifled--poultry Improvement dropped,
poultry vaccination Successful.
S. Village Cattle axnd Buffalo Banks     go          x   Rates of return low, borrowing term  modified.
8. Village Agric. Water Utilization      68    x     a   Competing use  of water, low benfilts, overlaps with
other subprogrom.
Farmer Particisgtlon Subproaroms
7. Food Production for Nutrition        100    x           ; well targetted to poor, poor sed quality, but
signiticant contribution to child nutritlon.
S. Rainfod Rice Improvoeont              94    x     x   Poor targettino, low quality sed, low dmand by
farmers. Soed bank proposl moditiod.
9. Upland Crop lmprovemnt                44    x     x   Duplicates other subprograms-poor sed supply.
10. Highland Rice Improvement             71    x     x   Serious shortage of Improved sed.
11. Fruit Tre  Dovelopment               113              Achlovemsnt refers to sedling distribution, no data
on survivol.
12. Liveotock Helth an  Mana gemnt       1ts              Cattle program succesful. Pig coverogo very low cf.
SAR's unreolistic populotion assumptions.
18. Soil Improvement/Crop Reidues        iN    x          Farmer partlelpation very good, supplies and rice
straw shortage (in e_ms areas). Ovarlaps with No.
14)4/
14. Saline Soll Improvemont/NE           116    x     x  Several technieal problems--inadequate technical
preparation, lmpet confused with other Subprograms.
15. Acid and Saline Solls/South            9    x     x   Serious technical problems becaue of Inadequate site
sirveys and design faults, Impct confused with other
subprgrsm. 'Very high subeidy *lement'.
18. Soll Erosion Prevention/North         9               Targets about met, except for low cover crops seed
produetion and distribution (but weak PCR coverage).
Infrastructure SuboParame
17. Bridge Construction & Replacement    62               DoesIgn change ralsed cost  for 1SX of bridges, budget
cute, constr. standards good and within SAR costs.
18. Village Wator Reoure Dev.            lSO    x     x   Inadequate site date led to inappropriate doeigns and
pond location, which my conflict with villagers'
ned   therefore full use of facilities Is uncortain
In som  ses.
Column Identificotlon
(a) Physical Achlevemento X. From PCR Tablo 1, Key Indicators, with some &udit judgem_nto to obtain
representative single figure when more than one physical activity por subprogrm. When weighted by SAR
cosot audit's analysis indicate SOX overall physical achievement of. 91X quoted In the PCR.
(b)  Performnce Problems.  (e)  Sustainability Insues, at loset for part of subprogram.
Both (b) and (c) are audit claseificat:ons as follows: x a significant reforne In PCR; blanks indicate no
probloem/no clear reference In PCR.
/   Kaseteart University report detalIs more nrious problems and recoemnds against oxpanding this
subprogram.



- 15 -
37.      The independent evaluation  by  Kasertsart University 10/ provides
an alternative view of the subprograms (See Chapter 5). This report recom-
mends, based on results to date, that eight subprograms be expanded, that
six be expanded subject to modification or pre-conditions (including that
two overlapping ones be merged), and that three not be expanded. No direct
recommendation was made on the bridge construction program. The suggestion
not to extend the crop residues subprogram is based on serious problems
which are not reflected in the PCR or therefore In Box 1.
38.      Physical implementation achievements  are  reported by subprograms
in the PCR in detail in terms of both outputs and costs. The PCR states
that the project achieved 91% of its physical targets. These results are
heavily influenced, of course, by performance of the four subprograms which
were allocated 62% of the project funds, as follows: (a) Village (inland)
Fisheries slightly exceeded targetted construction performance (although
distribution of fingerling fish was low at only 62% of target). (b) Rain-
fed Rice Improvement exceeded the target by about a third. (c) By quantity
only some 62% of the planned Bridge Construction was completed because of
budget cuts and changes in  objectives.    (The  audit does not find this a
major failure to meet project objectives since this component was in any
case poorly targetted towards poverty alleviation. Construction of timber
bridges in village localities would have had more direct impact on the poor
than their replacement on district roads by two-lane concrete bridges.)
(d) In the case of Village Water Resource Development, the PCR reports that
construction of ponds and reservoirs was above 90% but has strong reser-
vations on whether, in the pursuit of quantitative targets and with ina-
dequate site data, the facilities constructed meet village's needs and will
be fully used. Notable poor achievers were Acid and Saline Soils (techni-
cal problems /overlap with other subprograms) at 9%, Village Coastal Fishe-
ries (high costs and low farmer interest) at 34% and Upland Crops Improve-
ment (unclear objectives/overlap with other subprograms/inadequate seed
supply) at 44%.
39.      The audit notes, however,  that  reporting achievement of physical
targets is only a partial and sometimes even spurious indicator of success
in meeting objectives. In most cases physical components of a project are
only the means to  achieving  an  objective.    In  this case, for example,
construction of ponds for fish farming is only the means to raise protein
consumption and increase village income towards the ultimate objective of
raising the quality of life  of  the  poor.   Monitoring the achievement of
this objective requires carefully designed field surveys and analysis of
data, not just the cataloguing of physical activities. (See also Box 3
below in this connection.)
40.      The PCR reports a remarkable  impact on poverty during the project
period in that out of 286 "poverty districts' targetted at apprsisal in
_ / "An  Ex-post  Evaluation   of  Villate-based  and  Farmer-Participation
Schemes in Rural Poverty Alleviation Program", Kasetsart University for
NRDCC, November 1987.



- 16 -
1983, 122 (or 43%) are listed as having bean promoted to the non-poverty
category by 1985.11/   This is  an excellent result, if verifiable, but the
audit finds it difficult to comprehend that a significant and sustainable
change on such a widespread basis could have occu.red in so short a time.
In any case it is doubtful whether this result is attributable solely to
the project (cause and effect is not demonstrated in the PCR), and data
anomalies may contribute to the result.
C. Institutional Impact
13.      Institutional results are  summarized  here again for convenience.
Achievement of project institutional objectives was mixed as follows: (i)
The M&E system was not established as intended and therefore its use by
management to improve and refine the program was limited. (ii) The system
for managing and controlling Poverty Areas Program activities has been
improved considerably through unifying NRDP procedures, the review role of
the NRDCC and the links with the Comptroller and Auditor Generals. Sub-
program expenditures can now be traced. (iii) The institutional structure
is well established (Village Development Committees, the Township Councils,
and the District and Provincial Development Committees). (iv) Bottom-up
planning, however, has  not  yet  been  introduced, although the compromise
system in place does allow for more local level influence than before on
investment decisions.    The  PCR,  project  evaluation  reports  and other
sources indicate, however, that the system has to be developed further
before the needs of the rural poor will be fully reflected in planning
decisions. (v) Training and special studies were carried out largely
according to plan, although with some delay.
Clearly, establishing the NRDP and its institutional structure was
a major step towards correcting the flaws in earlier rural development
programs.  The government, NESDB, and the Bank, to the extent that the Bank
was of assistance in designing the system, can all take credit for this
major achievement. Under the project the USAID and UNDP assisted compo-
nents focussed on the M&E and management aspects, respectively.
Unfortunately, for the reasons given above, thr1 M&E component did
not progress as assumed at appraisal (and there was a suggestion that plans
and ambitions at the time were optimistic) with the result that less infor-
mation was available for project management than was desirable. There is
also some difficulty assessing the impact of the subprograms and further
evaluation work is needed to follow up the conclusions on specific issues
of the university evaluation studies.
111 The Bank's regional office reports also that "a preliminary study by
Kasertsart University and  Khon Kaen University, recently commissioned
by the Department of Fisheries, found that PAP activities increased per
capita fish consumption from 10 kg to 25 kg in the past seven years'.



- 17 -
Although there was a delayed start, progress on the UNDP funded
management aspects was more even and had a valuable impact on the mana-
gement system, as intended  at  appraisal.    Most of the management recom-
mendations were taken up except, as the PCR states (para. 4.20), for
strengthening of NRDCC and the program for decentralization to the pro-
vincial level. The recommendations adopted are expected to reduce NRDP
administrative costs and to increase efficiency.
On one aspect, introduction of bottom-up planning, opinions
differ. The evaluation reports state that bottom-up planning, per se, has
not been introduced.  The  audit's  understanding  of the system now in use
confirms this view, with the qualification that at least there is more
opportunity now, in theory, than before, for villages' needs to be heard.
In practice, however, offering poor villagers a choice of approved sub-
programs through the (intermediary) village leader may not result in real
needs being properly served and provides opportunity for concentration of
benefits in a few  influential  hands.    Several PCR and evaluation report
comments on subprograms not matching villagers' wishes attest to this
problem. (This issue is well recognized in academic literature, including
for Thailand.) Clearly, therefore, there is further to go before true
bottom-up planning, as intended at appraisal, is reflected in day-to-day
practice. The Bank's regional office, on the other hand, places emphasis
on the current compromise between top-down and bottom-up a planning being a
major step in the right direction and does not see the project as having
fallen short in this respect.
D. Economic and Financial Performance
41.      The impact  evaluation  report  completed  by  staff  of Kasetsart
University 12/   presents a range  of economic rates of return for the dif-
ferent subprograms (some startingly high), but the Overview by the regional
office correctly does not accept these on the grounds that data were
inadequate.
42.      A good example of  the weakness  of  the impact analysis stemming
from poor data (attributable to the slow start of the M&E program) is that
eleven of the subprogram production estimates (which are used to calculate
the rates of return) are not actual results from field records or sample
surveys, but are based on counts of farmers attending field days, visiting
demonstration plots or receiving improved seeds. No evidence is presented
of production results, objectively measured.   (Furthermore the audit mis-
sions' visits to a limited number of sites in the field included a number
of subprogram activities with mild  to  serious problems.)  Rates of return
calculations are also not always  supported  by consistent accounts of sub-
program results in the PCR text.
12/ Op. Cit.



- 18 -
III. FINDINGS AND ISSUES
A. General
43.      The project was prepared and processed  at a time when there was a
growing reluctance on the part of government to borrow Bank funds, although
the Bank's Lending Program was showing more not less lending over forward
years. (The Bank at one time programmed US$75.0 million for the project,
but a higher loan smount was not acceptable to the government.) The Bank
was successful, during the project preparation phase and parallel sector
work, however, in providing support and technical assistance (financed from
other Bank loans) in critical areas of program formulation. More ambitious
objectives and potential spin-offs were loaded onto the project than were
justified in the lending climate of the time. The project now generally
appears somewhat overblown, which was a sentiment expressed by reviewers
during project processing. It was overblown in terms of its too optimistic
institutional objectives in a short period of three years, its selection of
subprograms for Bank support--many of which overlapped or were very small
(Box 2 suggests a list of six investment categories which rationalizes
where Bank support was intended) and its promises as the entree for futuro
poverty alleviation lending in three sectors at a time when the government
was trying to contain or even reduce external borrowing. In the event the
uncertain sustainability (of parts of some components) and institutional
shortcomings, notwithstanding its physical achievements, now confirm that
earlier promises of things to come were over-optimistic.
BOX 2: RATIONALIZED PROJECT SUBPROGRAM INVESTMENTS (in each of M., N.E.&
S. Regions where not otherwise indicated)
1. Crop Production Development
(a) Annual Crops
Increase production through use of improved seeds and other
inputs and better water  use.    Crops  includet irrigated and
rainfed lowland rice, highland rice in the North; upland crops
in the North (maize, sorghum, peanut, mung bean and kenaf); and
others suCcu as legumes, sesame and vegetables.
(b) Tree Crops
Establishment of fruit tree groves, and woodlots in the N. &
N.E. Regions.
2. Land Management
Improvement of saline and acid soils in the N.E. & S., use of
crop residues and erosion control in the Northern Region.
3. Livestock
(a) Management, breed improvement and veterinary services for
cattle, buffaloes, goats and poultry.
(b) Establishment of cattle and buffalo 'banks' for poor villagers.
4. Fisheries



- 19 -
Development of inland fisheries in the N. & N.E. and coastal
fisheries in the Southern Region.
5. Nutrition
Special assistance to malnourished areas in the production and
preparation of nutritious foods.
6. Infrastructure
Construction of road bridges and replacement of timber road
bridges, and development of village ponds and reservoirs.
44.      The failure to establish an  operational M&E  system  at an early
stage of implementation leaves results more uncertain than they should be,
although the original M&E design may now be considered unrealistic. (Even
so, given the crucial importance of the M&E component, it is difficult to
understand now how the government and USAID allowed relatively minor con-
tractual issues to hold up M&E activities for so long. With full commit-
ment on both sides, such matters should have been resolved more speedily.)
Physical data are presented in the PCR on activities completed under the
project but few of the reported production results are based on objective
field data, and there is som, inconsistency between the PCR and evaluation
study findings.   The widespread  use  of  attendance figures at extension
meetings and demonstration plots as evidence of technology transfer (and
supposed production increases) is an unsupportable proxy for field surveys
and analysis of real change in the countryside. References in tho files to
benefits in some cases being too concentrated among few families raises
questions about the effectiveness of poverty targetting, even when invest-
ments are located in poorer villages.   A functioning M&E system could have
allayed fosrs raised by such concerns and allowed program managers to take
corrective action. Reservations in the impact studies that have been com-
pleted to  date  for  the  North  and  Northeast,13/   with USAID finance,
question the effectiveness of the current poverty targetting efforts and
are discussed further below.
45.      Some more particular concerns  raised  by this aud't are discussed
below and relate to the Bank's role and the project concept, the timing of
Bank assistance, program management improvement, poverty targetting and
beneficiary participation, and the evaluation of NRDP results.
B. The Bank's Role and the Proiect Concept
46.      The request for  Bank  assistance  for  rural  development made by
NESDB in early 1979 (some five years before the project was eventually
approved) was related to a Bank mission reviewing the government's ongoing
rural development programs and making a contribution to strategy aspects of
rural development planning. No such broad focus mission was mounted by the
Bank until March 1981, but apparently with a view to an early lending
13/ Op. Cit.



- 20 -
opportunity the operational division concerned focussed mainly on project
identification, but without  a  project  materializing.   The agricultural
sector mission of March 1981 reviewed growth with equity issues and made
recommendations with respect to rural development implementation for
decentralized planning, including taking into account local needs, and for
rationalizing and coordinating line agency roles. Project work was then in
abeyance, by intent, to give the upper levels of government time to decide
what it would do for rural poverty alleviation under the Fifth Plan. Time
passed and eventually preparation in earnest of the project began only in
the first year of the Fifth Five-Year Plan, after NESDB expressed renewed
interest in Bank involvement in the poverty subprograms. In consequence
the project had to link up with an ongoing rural poverty alleviation
component in the Plan, with the Plan period half over before the project
was approved.14/   The presentational  compromise in the documents was that
although the project was costed over the last three years of the Plan
period, disbursements would be against only the last two and a half years.
47.      This sequence of events  suggests  that  there  may have been very
little, if any, incrementality of development activity associated with the
Bank loan.15/    (Consequently, for some agencies and staff in Thailand the
Bank-assisted project was seen as a distracting and ephemeral event.)
Disbursements of Bank funds were in any case not linked directly with
project activities, hence in part the delays in processing reimbursement
claims. Whether the budget cuts that occurred would have been greater in
the absence of Bank funds cannot be judged now.
48.      The  Bank,  after  contributing  to  program  formulation  through
financing consultants and through sector work discussions, thus joined in
to support NRDP financially in the area of rural poverty alleviation and
related institutional aspects, but only after these programs were well
underway.  The Bank did  not  finance   institutional activities (M&E, stu-
dies, technical assistance and training of senior staff), as these were
funded by other donors over which it had little control. Furthermore, at
the time the Bank loan was approved these two donors had yet to conclude
agreements with government.16/       This  reduced  the effectiveness of the
Bank's dialogue with the government on rural development issues since the
14/ A knowledgeable reviewer of this report has suggested that Joining an
ongoing program, after the wrinkles had been ironed out, was one of the
strengths of the Bank project.
151 A reviewer of this report has characterized this as "the price of entry
into the program'.
16/ The cofinancing arrangement was not a Bank decision, however, but the
Government's, which preferred to fund  such "soft" investments from low
cost sources. The point remains that proceeding with the Bank loan
before two cofinanciers had processed their funds, and without cross
effectiveness clauses, left the Bank high and dry with no control over
two activities it considered vital to the success of the Bank project.



- 21 -
Bank's participation was relatively minor in importance in the overall NRDP
budget and in the work program of the major agency--the National Economic
and Social Development Board (NESDB).    (At  the working level in Thailand
the relatively minor role of Bank funds in the program, but high profile of
the Bank's operation, combined with disproportionate time demands on NESDB
staff, was a cause of concern.)
C. Timing and Duration of the Bank Proiect
49.      The feasibility of changing the management system of NRDP through
externally funded interventions was compromised by the late arrival of the
project and the relatively small funds involved (in the jargon--the Bank's
"leverage" was not great). In the audit's view it was by then too late to
expect a complex multi-agency M&E process to be developed into a function-
ing system for introducing changes to program design and implementation
(but see also footnote 10/  above).    The time horizon was unrealistically
short, even if all parties had been fully committed to the outline system
design, as they apparently were not at the time. (The short time horizon
might now look less of a problem if there had been a follow-on project.)
In particular the change over to a truly beneficiary centered planning and
Implementation process could not be achieved at all, in the audit's view,
so long as the "approved subprogram' menu approach to village project
selection was imposed by the centralized management system. This change,
even if it had been agreed as an objective in principle, would take some
years to introduce through a gradual process of consensus building among
administrators and demonstration of its effectiveness to villagers them-
selves, not just their leaders.   The audit concludes, therefore, that both
the general institutional objective (the main selling point justifying the
Bank's financial assistance for subprograms) was unrealistic, especially
with respect to the timing and duration of the project (similar concerns
were clearly also behind the comments of some reviewers during the ap-
praisal process).
D. Program Management Improvement
50.      In the project financing plan,  all  the Bank funds were allocated
to the investment subprograms, although these appear almost incidental to
the main objective of improving the management and implementation of the
program. Unfortunately this institutional objective was largely outside
the control of the Bank since it was being financed by other donors (there
were no cross effectiveness clauses in the Bank's legal documents). With
respect to USAID's support of M&E, there appears from the files to have
been a lack of full agreement with the appraisal design (at least, later,
when USAID staff changed). To that extent the project design, or at least
its financing plan, were faulty if the Bank was most interested in the
wider program aspects of poverty alleviation in Thailand. (Possibly the
Bank could have done little to change the arrangement since the government
chose the cheaper sources of funds to finance "software" components.)
51.      Program management remained  centralized  although  there was long
standing pressure by the Bank during preparation to decentralize the system



- 22 -
(decentralization was one of  the recommendations of UNDP-funded management
studies which vas not accepted by the government). It is evident from the
documents and field visits that such a dispersed program as PAP cannot be
controlled efficiently  from  the  center.    The  consultation  process on
investment selection between the various levels of the NRDP structure, down
to the village, is an improvement on the past totally 'top-down system",
but needs further development.    Greater devolution of the decision-making
process was advisable and some has since occurred. With such devolution,
provided the right incentives and transparency (the M&E system) are in
place, the problems of targetting the poor and beneficiary participation
(see below) are likely to be more readily resolved.
52.      Box 3  outlines  one management  tool  that  has  been introduced
through the M&E program and which holds great promise for the future.
BOX 3: IMPACT EVALUATION AND VILLAGE-LEVEL INDICATORS
One aspect of the management of the National Rural Development
Program reported to the audit mission holds great promise for dealing with
the targetting and impact evaluation deficiencies exposed during the pro-
ject. This is the village-level socio-economic surveys and updates that
have been introduced for all the about 53,000 villages in Thailand. Data
were first collected in 1984 and are updated every 2 years for 34 indica-
tors in  five  categories  as  follows:    infrastructure--10, agricultural
production--10, public health--8, education--4, and water resources--2.
Data are processed and stored on the mainframe computer financed by JICA at
the Information Processing Institution for Education and Development. The
system also provides for individual family returns to be updated regularly,
although this information is not processed beyond district level.
The audit mission did not inspect the system closely, but provided
that the indicators have been carefully selected and the incentives and
controls are in place to ensure accurate recording of data, the system
could be very helpful in planning and monitoring poverty alleviation pro-
grams. Thus the system provides a means of readily identifying different
categories of villages (and eventually families) for targetted poverty
alleviation programs, and then the means to track the impact of such pro-
grams objectively.   To  preserve  the  integrity  of  the system, however,
careful "fild-truthing' of data, on at least a random sample basis and by
disinterested staff, is essential to avoid biased recording of progress,
which would be the natural tendency of a management system whose perfor-
mance is measured by such indicators.
Provided such controls are in place, or can be put in place, this
village-level indicator system has great potential for improving Thailand's
rural development programs.



- 23 -
E. Reaching the Rural Poor
53.      The achievements of PAP are  qualified by the following two obser-
vations on NRDP poverty targetting and beneficiary participation. The PCR
notes in this respect that "vested interests of people at the field level
and lack of adequate monitoring and coordination resulted in many project
benefits accruing to non-poverty areas and to better-off beneficiaries".
54.      (a)  Targetting was  clearly  faulty  if  the main objective was
alleviation of the worst poverty, as numerous references to basic needs and
subsistence production in the SAR seem to suggest. The evaluatior. impact
studies of the North and Northeast Regions quoted above note that 'he pro-
gram has relatively less presence, and therefore results, in the more
remote and poorer villages (the Bank was right at the preparation stage to
encourage government to redefine poverty areas in terms of villages rather
than districts but this alone may not have been sufficient to get the pro-
gram into poorer villages).   There  are also sufficient references (in the
files, the PCR (see para. 52 above), evaluation studies and the Overview)
to benefits in some cases being undesirably concentrated, to send a warning
signal that mechanisms have not yet been established to design projects and
allocate funds in a fully equitable way.
55.      The evaluation reports note also  that   major distortion of bene-
ficiary participation tends to occur when villagers are expected to con-
tribute free labor to  scheme  development.   This results in participation
shifts (and therefore it is assumed in realization of benefits) away from
the poor, who can least afford to contribute free labor. (In poverty al-
leviation efforts elsewhere, payment for labor inputs, not necessarily at
the full market rate or in cash, is regarded as essential to involving the
poor in village level development schemes.) 17/
56.      (b)    Beneficiary  Participation   or  "bottom-up"  planning was
intended to ensure that investments met the real needs of the poor and
consequently that facilities provided were more likely to be sustainable.
Unfortunately the approach adopted, of offering standard approved sub-
programs to village leaders on a take-it-or-leave-it basis, does not meet
this requirement. This is especially so since as the files note, "village'
usually means "village leader" with respect to how a subprogram is select-
ed. Thus as several observers record in the files and impact studies, the
introduction of "bottom-up" planning has yet to be achieved in practice, no
matter how the current process is presented on paper. Some of the subpro-
grams visited by the audit mission had sustainability problems which pro-
bably resulted in part from lack of meaningful participation by beneficia-
ries in their design.
171 For example, see Aqa Khan Rural Support Protram, An Interim Evaluation,
OED, June 1987.



- 24 -
57.      The Overview reports  that  both  poverty targetting and bottom-up
planning are being strengthened under the Sixth Five-Year Plan.
F. Perceptions and Reality
58.      The audit notes the different  perceptions conveyed by the PCR and
Overview (by the numbers and qualitative judgements on project performance)
and some of the findings of the independent impact evaluations done by
Kasetsart, Chiang Mai and Khon Kaen Universities. Two facts stand out from
the regional evaluations of the North and Northeast: (a) that the remoter
(and usually smaller and poorer) villages have participated less in the
program than larger well off villages, and furthermore, (b) that in the
North 43% of village leaders were reported not to know of NRDC projects.
These findings correspond with  observations    that because of their remo-
teness, smallness and relative lack of access and facilities, those vil-
lages most in need of assistance see government officials the least. (Un-
fortunately, this is also true of audit missions.) Again positive steps
and appropriate incentives are required to deal with such perverse features
of poverty program coverage and benefit distribution.
G. Conclusions
59.      The project was approved some five  years after the Bank was asked
by NESDB to assist with rural development strategy on a national scale. In
the interim some individual project proposals were submitted by the govern-
ment and considered by the Bank operational division concerned, but without
results in lending terms. Response by the Bank to the original request for
a strategy mission did not occur until March 1981 when an agricultural sec-
tor mission visited Thailand.   This  was understandable at the time, given
that in addition to the usual pressure to lend, there was added urgency in
Thailand's case because the country was seen as having good absorptive ca-
pacity (notwithstanding reluctance to borrow). (This sector work, combined
with later project preparation discussions, did provide the government with
valuable assistance as the approach to rural development was being refin-
ed.) The audit suggests, however, that had the Bank been able to take the
longer-term view in 1979 and provide the requested strategy assistance
earlier, it might have avoided the various project-specific false starts
and ended up with a tidier, more timely operation in support of NRDP under
the Fifth Plan.18/   This  would  have been preferable to the late starting
project eventually  supported,  which  then  slipped  further.    Even this
project was processed before all the parts had fallen into place, since
18/ An alternative view offered by the regional office is that the Bank was
right to stand back, as it chose, to let the government decide how to
proceed with rural development before the Bank became directly involved
as a lender.



- 25 -
neither USAID nor UNDP had finalized their support of the vital institu-
tional components to which the Banks's project documentation gave center
stage. Bank staff refer to lending pressure at the time as an explanation
of the untidy arrangements surrounding cofinancing, since clearly the Bank
loan was processed eventually on a faster track than was the support of the
two remaining cofinanciers (JICA had already financed the supply of the
mainframe computer and thus was barely a "cofinancier").
60.      Not surprisingly, for  an  ongoing  program with strong political
support and participation at the highest levels, construction and physical
aspects of subprogram implementation went quite well, except for some
redesign and adjustments (as was expected and provided for at appraisal) in
several which had technical problems but improved during implementation and
two which had little success.   Benefits and results are not well document-
ed, however, because of the failure of the M&E component to function as
quickly and comprehensively  as  expected  at  appraisal.   (Experience now
suggests that these M&E expectations were over-optimistic--a point made by
Bank reviewers ex-ante and noted by USAID ex-post.) Consequently the audit
had to rely on judgements presented in the PCR, on the three evaluation
studies and on interviews and limited field visits in Thailand, rather than
on objective M&E data.
61.      The audit concludes that from the Bank's point of view the project
experience was satisfactory in terms of the rural development policy assis-
tance the Bank was able to provide in the run-up to the project, but not
fully satisfactory in terms  or  project  results,  since:   (a) it did not
fulfill the program management objectives, (b) the subprogram investments
had mixed results and sustainability is uncertain to doubtful for parts of
the majority of subprograms, and (c) it did not lead to further Bank as-
sisted poverty alleviation operations.   In  relation to the long period of
project identification and preparation, the outcome in lending terms was
unsatisfactory compared with the large amounts of Bank staff resources
employed.



- 27 -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2402-TH)
REGIONAL OVERVIEW OF THE PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Introduction
1.        This Overview by the Asia Region (AS2AG/ASTAG) is based primarily
on the PCR for the National Rural Development Project, financed under Loan
2402-TH. The PCR was prepared by the National Rural Development
Coordination Center (NRDCC) of the Royal Thai Government (RTG), with
assistance from staff of the FAO-World Bank Cooperative Program. The
Regional Overview expands on the PCR by incorporating the results of the
final evaluation report ("An Ex-post Evaluation of Village-Based and Farmer
Participation Schemes in Rural Poverty Alleviation Program") of the Faculty
of Economics and Business Administration, Kasetsart University, Bangkok.
It also clarifies some apparent inconsistencies in the PCR by expanding the
description of subprogram performance, and reassesses the economic
evaluation of the project and its subprograms.
Project Obiectives and Content
2.        The National Rural Development Program (NRDP) of the RTG had
begun operations in 1982. Within the overall framework of the NRDP, there
were four special rural development programs: (a) the Poverty Areas
Program (PAP), which focussed on the longer-term development needs of the
country's poorest rural areas; (b) the Rural Employment Generator Program
(REGP), intended to provide off-season, labor-intensive employment so as to
stem seasonal migration to Bangkok and other major urban centers; (c) the
Security Areas Program for villages near the Khampuchean conflict zone; and
(d) the Water Resources Development Program. Bar,k support for the NRDP was
proposed by an identification mission in May 1982; project preparation took
place during the following year, and the project was appraised in April
1983. Loan 2402-TH was presented to the Bank's Directors for approval on
March 29, 1984 and became effective on August 14, 1984. Parallel co-
financing was provided by USAID, UNDP and JICA.
3.        A consultant study commissioned by the NRDP Secretariat (NRDCC)
and financed under IDA Credit 929-TH had reviewed initial implementation
experience under the NRDP and made extensive recommendations; many
findings were incorporated into the project design. Also, in appraising
Loan 2402-TH, the Bank mission adopted the approach that the NRDP was an
evolving and innovative program, and that the project therefore needed to
be kept simple and flexible in design. Some lessons would be learned only
in the course of actual project implementation and they would be applied
gradually, so that the framework and content of the NRDP would be
continuously evolving and improving.
4.        The Bank-supported project concentrated on only two aspects of
the NRDP. First, the project financed institutional development activities



- 28 -
to strengthen the glanning. budgeting and management of the overall N4RDP,
in order to establish a mechanism for identifying local needs and
channeling official funds in a cost-effective manner to rural areas. These
activities included:
(a)  development of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system
to provide timely management information, program
progress and budget analysis, and periodic analysis
of the impact of the NRDP on alleviating poverty; and
(b) special studies to identify and correct weaknesses in
the NRDP before the M&E system became fully
functional.
USAID and JICA provided parallel financing for the M&E component, and UNDP
for the special studies.
5.        Second, in order to support the national Roverty alleviation
effort. Bank financing was channelled to 18 of the Droductive "self helD"
subgrograms of the PAP in some 12,600 villages located within 286 poverty
districts (40% of the country total, spanning 38 provinces), including:
(a)  six village-based subprograms requiring the involvement
of the community (village fisheries development, village
woodlots, village small animal improvement, village
cattle and buffalo banks, village coastal fisheries in
the south, and village agricultural water utilization);
(b)  ten farmer-based subprograms for individual farmers or
groups (food production for nutrition, rainfed rice
improvement, upland crop imprt-vement, highland rice
improvement, fruit and other productive tree planting,
livestock health and management improvement, soil
improvement through crop residues, saline soil
improvement in the Northeast and the South, and soil
erosion in the North); and
(c) two infrastructure subprograms (bridges and water
supply).
Details concerning targets and accomplishments, by subprogram, are provided
in Table 1 of the Borrower's PCR.
Project Implementation
6.        General.  The administrative framework for the NRDP was grafted
onto the then existing national planning system in Thailand. At the center,
the NRDP was coordinated by a Cabinet-level National Rural Development



- 29 -
Committee (NRDC), chaired by the Prime Minister ar.d including high-level
representatives of all concerned Ministries. The NRDC set policy and
allocated the budget committed by Cabinet for rural development. It was
assisted by a permanent secretariat known as th.e National Rural Development
Coordination Center (NRDCC), established within the central planning unit
(National Economic and Social Development Board, NESDB). Although
counterparts to NESDB had already existed for some time at the provincial,
district and township levels, RTG planning arrangements were in fact
heavily centralized. One of the primary objectives of the NRDP was to
revert this process by fostering a "bottom-up" planning system for small
rural development activities. Rural development sub-committees or working
groups were therefore established at the provincial, district and township
levels to assist the general planning units, and considerable training was
built into the NRDP to develop local rural development planning and
monitoring capabilities.
7.        With regard to the Bank-supported project, at national level the
NRDCC was responsible for overall coordination and for implementation of
the M&E and special studies components. The Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives (MOAC) was responsible for implementation of the 16 productive
poverty area subprograms, and the Ministry of Interior (MOI) for the two
infrastructure subprograms.   Some initial activities were delayed by the
need to identify staff, establish institutional working relationships and
set up the first Thai Special Account. Also, the NRDCC was inexperienced
in working with several co-financiers, each with its own procurement and
reporting requirements. Nonetheless, Ministerial performance was generally
satisfactory, and many lessons were learned and applied. Individual
subprograms started promptly (indeed, many were already underway, since the
NRDP had initiated operations in 1982), with potential beneficiaries
variously involved.
8.        Government officers usually discussed possible activities with
township councils or village committees; the objective was for the village
committee to identify development constraints, rank them in order of need,
and request help in implementing specific subprograms. At the outset, RTG
officers often provided a short list of activities and villages either
chose or were assigned a subprogram, but this situation later improved as
more attention was given to strengthening provincial, district and local
governments and to the need for public participation in planning and
implementation activities. Members of the township councils and village
committees were usually selected by the village headmen and were often
representatives of the better-off families, which may have influenced
selection of specific subprograms. There was no special effort to ensure
participation of only the poorest families, since all rural citizens of the
286 districts in the designated poverty areas were considered eligible
beneficiaries.
9.        Monitoring and Evaluation.  This component included: (a)
technical assistance to improve linkages between NESDB/NRDCC, the



- 30 -
implementing agencies, and the provincial, district and township
governments; (b) equipment and transport facilities; (c) local and overseas
training; and (d) a mid-term and final evaluation of M&E activities. JICA
assistance, in the form of a grant for the purchase of a central mainframe
computer housed at the Information Processing Institution for Education and
Development (IPIED), with terminals at NRDCC and other agencies, was fully
utilized in FY1984. USAID assistance will continue through March 1989
(para. 11 below).
10.       Despite the fact that all parties considered M&E to be crucial
for proper planning, management and evaluation, the component achieved very
few of its objectives during the first years, due mainly to a lack of
agreement over procedures for contracting technical assistance. RTG
favored direct contract, while USAID felt that technical assistance should
be secured through the U.S. Bureau of Census. The latter insisted on
having diplomatic privileges and, after breakdown of protracted
negotiations between RTG and the Bureau of Census on this issue, RTG
finally hired a Senior Advisor directly in 1985. A second advisor was not
available until October 1986, and a Thai consultant joined only in 1987.
The failure to act promptly to place an M&E team leader, recruit local and
foreign staff, gain the support of advisory and participating
organizations, and procure essential equipment all served to restrict
severely the effectiveness of this component.
11.       Besides the difficulties in bringing on board technical
assistance, effectiveness of the component was constrained by lack of
clarity from the outset as to the kind of M&E system and the information
requirements that would be appropriate for the NRDP. During the early
stages of the project, large quantities of information were collected and
forwarded to the NRDCC for central processing and interpretation, Without
standardization of definitions and formats, staff and computers available
to handle the volume of information were inadequate, and it was not until
after the mid-term review of the component that some of these problems
began to be resolved. With the exception of the village survey form used
in developing the Sixth Plan, many of the questionnaires which were
regularly completed and forwarded by participating agencies were of limited
value in identifying the needs of target groups in specific geographic
areas. On the other hand, many people received training in M&E, rural
development planning and project management, and this was perhaps one of
the most important achievements of the M&E component. It is also important
to note that USAID is continuing to provide assistance to RTG through March
1989 to support Thai management consultants, purchase microcomputers for
all provinces, and fund additional training for provincial and line agency
headquarters staff.
12.       Certainly the delays in implementing M&E activities weakened the
management, planning and execution of the project. Specifically, they made
it difficult to assess subprogram benefits anid identify in a timely manner
modifications needed to improve project performance. For instance, after



- 31 -
1985 some subprograms had to be revised in scope and content because of
national budgetary constraints; the timber bridge replacement, soil
erosion, and acid sulfate and saline soil improvement activities were the
most affected. Unfortunately, because of the problems with the M&E
component, there was inadequate management information to assess project
performance and benefits. In the absence of such feedback, the Bank and
the Government were forced to consider target revisions on the basis of
rather limited reporting and occasional field inspections. Similarly, as
discussed in para. 22    below, at the completion stage it has been
extremely difficult to re-estimate the ERRs of individual subprograms or
otherwise document the project impact in quantitative terms.
13.       Special Studies.  Studies and project-related training were more
successful. In all, the UNDP-assisted component, which was completed in
September 1986, supported 12 studies to aid in rural development policy
formulation, program administration, management, staff training and
evaluation. rRDC and the Cabine* accepted and implemented the majority of
the recommendations. Some study proposals for both a stronger NRDCC and
increased provincial control might have been conceptually contradictory
but, partly due to the inability of the centralized NRDCC staff to carry
out all administrative functions, responsibilities for many activities
ultimately shifted to the provincial level. Through extensive staff
training (918 in local courses and 25 under international training
programs) the functional capabilities of the provincial planning officials
(PPOs) in planning and coordinating the implementation of rural development
activities by line agencies was greatly developed. The competence of the
PPos was also increased through the development and installation of the
USAID-funded computer-based management information system. A study on
management improvements recommended merging the numerous committees and
subcommittees at provincial level into a single planning and coordinating
entity under the Governor, so as to improve efficiency, avoid duplication
and increase dialogue. This organizational scheme is now in place in many
provinces, and the remaining provinces are expected to follow suit. Other
special studies addressed public relations and the use of the media in
fostering rural development programs, and people's participation in the
NRDP did increase in areas where short-term tangible benefits were obvious
and well-publicized.
14.       Poverty, Areas Subprograms
(a) Village-based Subprograms
(i) Village Fisheries DeveloRment. The objective of this
subprogram was to raise consumption of protein-rich fish by the
construction of approximately 285 community ponds and 300 school ponds,
rehabilitation of approximately 900 catchments, and the conduct of some 300
farmer training courses in fish production. Targets for building new
community and school fish ponds and rehabilitating existing ponds were
fully met, but the final distribution of fingerlings fell below (62%)



- 32 -
appraisal targets. Fish yields per ha were initially low because of
limited farmer participation and the fact that villagers did not restock at
recommended rates; some ponds were poorly located where seepage was a
problem; and technical construction standards were relaxed because of
budget constraints. It was also difficult to ascertain actual production
because of out-of-season fishing and escape of fish during the rainy
season. The Department of Fisheries (DOF) overcame most of these problems
by greater involvement in site selection, development of more suitable pond
designs, and modification of the specifications for large ponds. DOF
selected 20% of the ponds for more detailed analysis and hired biologists,
economists and supporting staff to provide more efficient technical and
managerial support. As a result, farmer participation improved, and the
survival rate of fingerlings increased to an average 80% (i.e., surpassing
the appraisal estimates of 60-70%).
(ii) Village Woodlots. The objective was to introduce rural
villagers to a means of increasing their wood supply without resorting to
deforestation, through the establishment of a"pproximately 5,500 ha of
nurseries and development of approximately 35,000 woodlots. This subprogram
achieved or exceeded its targets in the number of nurseries established,
seedlings produced and area planted to woodlots. Some 95% of the target
for training participating villagers and farm leaders was also achieved,
but only 64% of the targeted nuiber of government officials were actually
trained. Initial problems included difficulties in meeting the demand for
seedlings, low survival rate of seedlings and poor maintenance because of
supervisory staff shortages in the Land Development Dupartment (LDD).
However, these problems were eventually overcome by better liaison with the
vill&gers and involving staff of other projects in the implementation of
this subprogram.
(iii) Village Small Animal Improvement. The main objective
was to increase the availability of small animals for home consumption by
distributing improved breeding stock, disseminating information on poultry
rearing, and preventing poultry diseases through training and vaccinations
in approximately 12,000 villages. Due to low survival rates, the
distribution of improved poultry breeding stock was discontinued. Efforts
were concentrated instead on the more successful training and vaccination
activities, with trained villagers participating in some 125 million
vaccinations.
(iv) Village Cattle and Buffalo Banks. This subprogram
aimed to promote livestock production through the establishment of "banks"
consisting of approximately 19,000 head of cattle and buffalo; by assisting
farmers to obtain draft cattle; and by providing technical assistance in
breeding, management and disease prevention. Farmers would obtain draft
cattle or buffalo either by means of interest free loans repayable over
five years, or through a traditional system under which the farmer received
a breeding animal on loan during the period necessary to produce two
calves. The first calf would be returned to the animal bank for subsequent



- 33 -
sale (if male) or loan (if female) and the mother would be returned when
the second calf was one year old. The credit alternative was soon
abandoned in favor of the traditional scheme. A total of 17,600 calves
(92% of target) were produced by the cows distributed to farmers. Farmers
retained the mother cows for a longer period than originally planned,
keeping the second of the three calves and handing over the other two to
the bank. The actual number of calves and cows returned is not available.
There were no major problems with this component, although there we I some
reports of lack of personnel and delays in purchasing animals for
distribution.
(v) Village Coastal Fisheries in the South. The objective
was to encourage farmers to raise sea bass and cockle; approximately 20
sites were to be developed for seabass culture and three sites for cockle
production, and facilities were to be established for fishermen's training.
This subprogram faced problems of site selection, as well as diseases and
theft. Also, farmer participation rates were low because of high operating
and marketing costs, difficult access to sites, and competing demands for
labor from other farming and nonfarming activities. Training was hampered
by the lack of funds for teaching aids. Gradually, the orientation of this
subprogram changed from a subsistence to a commercial undertaking: the
total number of sites was reduced from 20 to 7 for sea bass culture and
from 3 to 1 for cockle culture, while 3 sites for more profitable
freshwater prawn and 2 for green mussel culture were added.
(vi)  Village Agricultural Water Utilization.  The objective
was to enable the inhabitants of 10,000 villages to better utilize existing
reservoirs by encouraging them to grow protein-rich vegetables and food
crops, through distribution of leguminous and vegetable seeds. Village
participation rates and the total area cropped were 87% and 83%,
respectively, of appraisal targets. However, reliable crop production
records were not kept, and it is reported that only about 37% of
participating farmers continued to the final year. The main problem seems
to have been the fact that most reservoirs were small and served multiple
purposes.
(b)   Farmer Participation Schemes
(i) Food Production for Nutrition. The objective was to
raise the nutritional level of rural households, particularly that of
32,000 preschool children, by promoting production of animal protein and
food crops on 17,000 ha of vegetable plots. By FY86 all targeted villages
were participating in the subprogram. About 14,500 ha were planted to
beans, sesame and vegetables, but production of chickens reached only 53%
of the appraisal target. Problems cited included poor quality and untimely
procurement and distribution of seeds, unfavorable climatic conditions
during the first two years, and difficulties in obtaining adequate water
and timely advice for crop production.



- 34 -
(ii) Rainfed Rice Improvement. The main objective was to
promote improved rice cultivation practices by providing advice and
training through, inter alia, the use of demonstration plots, and to
establish seed banks and construct about 1,900 stores of 10 ton capacity
and 700 stores of 30 ton capacity. The effort to raise rice output and
productivity was very successful; the target for seed plots was met; 93% of
the total area targeted for rice production was covered; and training
targets were met. The ex-post evaluation study reports that yields
increased by about 400 kg/ha (i.e., double the appraisal target). On the
other hand, only 63% of rice seed loans to farmers were returned. The
original concept of establishing seed banks was modified, in that seed
storage facilities were used also as village rice banks to store grain for
consumption. The most frequently cited problems were late budgetary
transfers, drought and poor seed quality.
(iii) Upland Crop Improvement. The subprogram aimed to
increase the output of upland field crops by enabling farmers to have good
quality field crop seeds in reserve for planting, through training and
advice in efficient cropping practices and seed selection and preservation.
The subprogram concentrated on maize, sorghum, jute, peanuts and mungbeans.
Problems included overlap with other subprograms, such as the one for Food
Production for Nutrition. At some sites too many projects were
implemented, which may have reduced farmer interest in individual
activities. Also, supply of good quality seed was inadequate and planning
was complicated by the fact that farmers often modified their seasonal
demand for the five different crops in response to changing market
conditions.
(iv)  Highland Rice Imirovement.  The objective was to
identify and breed high yielding rice varieties (HYV), by distributing
approximately 300 tons of seed and promoting improved cropping practices.
Despite the fact that the upland rice research substation had only a
limited area for seed production, distribution of improved seeds achieved
appraisal targets; the total area benefitted was about 85% of target; and
farmer training 79%.
(v) Fruit and Other Productive Tree Planting. The
objectives were similar to those of the Village Woodlot subprogram, except
that the nurseries established and trees planted would yield fruits for
home consumption and sale, rather tharn wood. This subprogram was
relatively problem free, and all major targets were achieved. Nurseries
were established in all 286 districts and a total of 6.9 million seedlings
were distributed to farmers (i.e., 18% above the appraisal target),
although actual planted areas, survival rates and volume of fruit
production were not reported.
(vi) Livestock Health and Management Imrovement. The
objectives were to improve livestock health through vaccinations and



- 35 -
deworming, improve public pasture, upgrade livestock quality by expanding
artificial insemination services, and provide farmer training in livestock
management. About 75% of the disease prevention and deworming targets were
met, although pig vaccinations reached only about 55% of target because the
original estimate of the number of pigs proved unrealistic. The four sub-
activities of pasture development (legume seed distribution, repurchase of
seed from farmers, seed production and hay-making demonstrations) attained
111%, 51%, 11% and 87% of targets, respectively. Livestock quality
improvement achieved about 60% of target, and training targets were fully
met.
(vii) Soil Improvement through Crop Residues. The subprogram
called for production of approximately 375,000 tons of compost for
production of vegetables and other high value crops on sandy soils, through
training and provision to farmers groups of compost starter-cultures, cover
crop and green manure seed. In some areas there was a serious shortage of
rice straw for compost to be used in paddy fields, but participation was
good in paddy areas near forests and in nonpaddy areas. There was also a
shortage of compost starter supplies, as the private sector was slow in
entering the market and LDD facilities for compost starter production were
inadequate; in these circumstances, farmers tended to apply less than the
recommended rates of compost. Four of the seven supporting activities
(training of government personnel, organization of farmer groups, seed
procurement and research) achieved appraisal targets; green manure
extension achieved 90% of targets; farm leader training 84%; and green
manure production 34%.
(viii) Saline Soil Improvement in the Northeast. The
objectives were to improve production in approximately 500 ha of areas of
low salinity, and to reduce the spread of salinity through research and
technology development, training and legislative action. The subprogram
succeeded in demonstrating techniques for growing plants in slightly saline
soil through extension work in farmers' fields, promoting the use of
saline-resistant rice seeds, and training government personnel and local
leaders in saline-soil improvement methods. The main problems included
inadequate identification of soil constraints, shortages of salt-tolerant
varieties and uncertainties about the response of different varieties under
varying soil conditions, the difficulty of distinguishing the effects of
variety from soil treatment, and farmers' preference for sticky rice (which
is less salt-tolerant than non-sticky varieties). Also, construction of
drainage schemes was postponed pending findings of research being
undertaken with the help of Australian Technical Assistance.
(ix) Acid and Saline Soil Improvement in the South. The
objective was to improve rice yields through promotion of desalinization
methods, including application of approximately 90,000 tons of marl and 900
tons of rice seed by approximately 18,000 families. The achievements of
this subprogram were negligible, due mainly to technical difficulties.
Although farmer training exceeded targets by 5%, indicating strong wnterest



- 36 -
in the topic, application of marl was actually demonstrated on only 1,280
ha (v. 14,400 ha planned) and only 96 tons (v. 900 tons) of rice seed were
produced. Sea dikes which were constructed to prevent salt water intrusion
failed; variations in the degree and extent of acidity/salinity at
specific locations were unknown; because earth-moving machinery was used,
demonstrations were carried out on larger, less typical plots (15-30ha)
pending completion of designs for smaller plots; treatment effects
overlapped with those of composting and high fertilizer application rates,
making it difficult to isolate the impact of liming; and there were
problems in transporting materials to field sites and in coordination
between government officers and villagers.
(x) Prevention of Soil Erosion in the North. The
objectives were to promote soil erosion c.'itrol measures, including contour
planting, strip cropping, tree planting and earth bank construction; arid to
provide approximately 800 tons of seeds of suitable plant species and
farmer training. Except for cover crop production, all activities
achieved more than 90% of targets: 94% of planned farms were visited by
extension agents, and 90% of contour bunds and 93% of demonstration plots
were established. The main difficulties had to do with accessing the sites
and interesting farmers in an activity for which the benefits could not be
explicitly quantified.
(c) Infrastructure Subprograms
(i) Bridee Construction and Replacement. This subprogram
was designed to provide all-year access to poverty areas through
construction and/or replacement of 11,000 meters of bridges and replacement
of low-level flood-damaged and deteriorated timber bridges which were
costly to maintain. Ultimately, only 6,779 meters of bridges (i.e., 62% of
target) were constructed due to budget cuts beginning in 1985 and to new
instructions, also in 1985, to the effect that 15% of the bridges should be
(more costly) dual-purpose structures including a concrete weir under the
bridge to take advantage (for water storage) of dams created by road
embankments.
(ii) Village Water Resource Development. This subprogram
aimed to provide water supplies for domestic uoe, livestock, irrigation of
vegetable crops and fishponds, by deepening existing natural ponds or
constructing small reservoirs with a capacity of about 10,000 m3.
Performance was satisfactory: the number of reservoirs constructed
exceeded the target by 10%, and 92% of the targeted ponds were developed.
The main problems encountered were the inadequacy of geological and
hydrological datta for site selection and the need to develop location-
specific solutions for different sites.
Project Costs and Financing
15.       The total project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$157.3
million (Baht 3,616 million), with external financing of US$57.6 million



- 37 -
(World Bank US$50.0 million, JICA US$2.1 million, UNDP US$0.5 million and
USAID US$5.0 million).  Although no major changes were made in project
content or timetable during implementation, US$8.5 million was cancelled
on October 8, 1986, and another US$5.2 million on November 25, 1988. Final
project costs were US$91.5 million (Baht 2,328.9 million - Borrower's PCR,
Tables 2 and 3), or about 58% of appraisal estimates. The shortfall was
due to depreciation of the Baht, reduced expenditures for some activities,
and ineligibility of other expenditures (US$14.5 million) incurred before
loan signing.
Proiect Results
16.       The essential question remaining at completion was whether the 18
selected PAP subprograms were the correct ones for overcoming the root
causes of underdevelopment in the designated poverty areas. Unfortunately,
lack of a fully functional M&E system from the outset makes it difficult to
analyze the effect of individual subprograms, although the Borrower's PCR
indicates that production increases were higher than anticipated at
appraisal except in a few cases (PCR para. 5.7), and that 121 (42%) of the
286 participating districts have graduated from the poverty category (PCR
para. 5.9). At the same time, it is important to note that project
activities were situated where nationwide data identified groups of poor
villages within districts, but little was done to differentiate among the
poor and better-off members of the target groups. Hence, the more
aggressive farmers and village hierarchy were probably among the major
beneficiaries. Overall, success was better with the village-based
subprograms than with the individual farmer programs; probably group
activities were relatively more visible and therefore received more
attention and support.
17.       Certainly another important accomplishment of the project was to
encourage and develop the philosophy and administrative procedures for
bottom-up rural planning, which has now been accepted in principle and
hopefully will become more effective with time.   An effort was made to
respond to the constraints perceived by the beneficiaries; while there was
not always a perfect match between perceived needs and the subprograms
available, this situation improved gradually. Also, the assignment of
several activities to particular areas sometimes had a synergistic effect
in generating benefits and greater public awareness of the NRDP.
18.       While called an "integrated rural development" scheme, this
project focussed almost exclusively on the productive subprograms of the
PAP (i.e., without supporting social sector development, feeder roads, land
regularization, etc.). In that sense, it was a less complicated operation
than many other multi-sectoral IADPs supported by the Bank, and
implementation by the line agencies was generally satisfactory. Most
activities were free-standing, with limited need for coordination among the
subprograms. Line agencies had to liaise principally with local political
leaders and the NRDP committees, but less so with each other. On the



- 38 -
question of scope, the PCR does reflect the Borrower's views on the
importance of also developing infrastructure, public health and education
activities in conjunction with agricultural schemes, in order to
effectively reduce poverty and improve nutrition and living standards.
19.       Budgetary constraints limited some subprogram achievements and
this was partly attributable to a weakness in the administrative
arrangements for the NRDP. NRDP planning and implementation were the
responsibility of the NRDCC, local governments and executing agencies, but
financial controls were exercised by the Controller General's Office (CGO)
and the Bureau of Budget (BOB). An inadequate understanding of the NRDP,
and the financial agencies' caution in budgeting and releasing funds,
delayed implementation of some activities and compromised the quality of
others. Because the financial agencies were independent, it would have
been important to involve them more closely in NRDP planning activities on
a regular basis. A functional M&E system might also have increased
confidence in the efficacy of allocating limited resources to the various
subprograms.
20.       Although the project was less complex than some multi-sectoral
IADPs (para. 18 above), coordination still posed a major challenge, given
the very broad geographic coverage of the NRDP. In this regard, the
project demonstrated the shortcomings of trying to direct such a large
program from the national level, particularly given the lack of a M&E
system which would generate key management information. Many physical and
financial reports were required and sent to the NRDCC, where they were only
superficially analyzed because of sheer volume and inadequate staff
resources. It soon became evident to all that planning, management and
monitoring should be decentralized to the provincial level and, as district
governments became more capable, to the district and subdistrict levels.
To th-.s end, procedures and manuals were developed and training courses
held for over i,000 provincial/district/sub-district staff, and many
provincial offices have been strengthened.
21.       Economic Re-evaluation.  At appraisal the overall project ERR was
calculated at 12.4% for 14 of the 18 subprograms (i.e., excluding the Food
Production for Nutrition, Livestock Development, Soil Erosion Prevention
and Village Agricultural Water Resources subprograms). Based on an ex-post
evaluation study by the Faculty of Economics and Business Administration of
Kasetsart University, the Borrower's PCR re-estimated the ERR for 12 sub-
programs: eight had positive ERRs (including four in excess of 100%), two



- 39 -
had marginal ERRs, and three ERRs were low (including one negative ERR), as
summarized in the Table below:
Table: ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN BY PAP SUBPROGRAM
ERR (%)
_       Subnrogram                    SAR      Borrower' PCR
Village-Based Subprograms
1.  Village Fisheries Development    15           - 9
2.  Village Woodlots                  10         >100
3.  Village Coastal Fisheries/South  13            11
4.  Village Small Animal Improvement 13          >100
5.  Village Cattle and Buffalo Banks 11              5
6. Village Ag. Water Utilization    10               -
Farmer ?articioation Subprograms
7.  Food Production for Nutrition      -         >100
8.  Rainfed Rice Improvement          15         >100
9.  Upland Crop Improvement           17            59
10. Highland Rice Improvement         17           41
11. Fruit Tree Development            14            21
12. Livestock Health and Management   -              -
13. Soil Improvement/Crop Residues   13              -
14. Saline Soil Improvement/NE        16             9
15. Acid and Saline Soils/South       10             5
16. Soil Erosion Prevention/North      -
Infrastructure Subprograms
17. Bridge Construction/Replacement  16
18. Village Water Resource Dev.        -             -
Aggregate ERR               12.4          NA
22.       Having reviewed the data in the ex-post evaluation study, the
Region questions the usefulness of re-estimating the ERRs for this
project/subprograms. The study itself states that "the collection of data
regarding changes in product, production cost, income and employment was
not mandatory for all subprograms, resulting in some subprograms collecting
some data and some subprograms none at all. This results in missing data
for the evaluation of financial and economic rate of return, impact on
income and employment-..Moreover, the data...are not wholely suitable for
the financial and economic evaluation of the subprograms, and data on some
items are incomplete." (Ex-post study, Section 5.3). Clearly, this
situation is attributable to the lack of consistent baseline data at the
start of the project, and the absence of an effective M&E system throughout
most of the implementation period. In these circumstances, despite the
heroic attempts of the NRDCC and Kasetsart University to reconstruct



- 40 -
relevant data by drawing on a variety of sources, it is simply not possible
to assess the impact of the project in quantitative terms with an
acceptable degree of confidence. On the other hand, the re-estimated ERRs
offer some indication of what were probably the more and less successful
NRDP subprograms, from an economic standpoint. This information, combined
with the ex-post evaluation study's analysis of unit costs and farmer
continuation rates for each of the subprograms, provides valuable guidance
as to those activities which may be worth continuing and/or expanding.
23.       Sustainability.  For the aforementioned reasons, it is also
difficult to reach firm conclusions regarding sustainability of the various
subprograms. In 12 of the 18 cases farmers were expected to make some in-
kind repayments (e.g. for seed, planting stock, livestock, etc.).
Repayments were received by the Village Development Committees (VDCs), but
the extent cannot be documented due to lack of uniformity in obligations
and in physical ability to receive, record and utilize the repayments. On
the other hand, the Borrower's PCR raises no major issues of principle
regarding the repayment obligations, presumably reflecting RTG's
concurrence that some cost recovery should be attempted in appropriate
cases. For the future, more adequate provision should be made for
collecting and utilizing the repayments, particularly for recycling
activities at the local level.
24.       The RTG is continuling its rural development efforts under the
Sixth Plan, although it has not requested World Bank financing because of a
general reduction in external borrowing. The PAP concept is being
replaced, in favor of more careful targeting of NRDP activities to low-
income households, which can now be identified from the provincial data
base. The emphasis will remain on economically viable activities and local
level, bottom-up planning will be further strengthened. The need for an
adequate M&E system is well understood and continuing efforts are being
made towards its development.
Bank Performance
25.        The Borrower's PCR credits the Bank with making important
contributions to the NRDP at the stage of project design and appraisal,
*     particularly with regard to its emphasis on the need to strengthen the N&E
-.     system and execute special studies to complement information coming through
that system (PCR, para. 7.1) and on the importance of decentralizing
:   :   planning decisions to the provincial and district levels.  However, while
it may have recognized the need for effective M&E for the management of
such a widespread and diverse project, the Bank did little during the
implementation stage to help speed up execution of M&E activities.  This
was partly due to the fact that the M&E and special studies components were
financed by the cofinanciers rather than the Bank; however, there was also
no participation of an M&E specialist in the last two (of a total of four)
Bank supervision missions, even though very little progress had been made
under this critical componen_.  With regard to decentralization, while



- 41 -
conceptually sound, the Bank was overly optimistic about the rate at which
this could realistically take place and did not adequately foresee the
staffing and equipment inputs needed. Although the Bank's interaction with
.TICA and UNDP was limited, liaison with USAID grew stronger towards the
conclusion of the project. Finally, in retrospect it appears that none of
the parties involved adequately anticipated at appraisal the difficulties
which RTG would face in dealing with the different operating procedures of
the four cofinanciers.
lessons Learned
26.       Bottom-up rural development planning, an important goal of this
project, is evolutionary and requires considerable guidance and close
implementation assistance. The assumption that such a system could be
developed within three years was not realistic. Further, the failure to
prepare adequately the M&E component before the start of project
implementation was a serious barrier to success, as was the subsequent
failure of those involved to give enough priority to overcoming quickly the
bureaucratic and procedural issues which plagued this component, in the
interests of achieving fundamental project objectives.
27.       Beneficiaries and local authorities must be involved in a project
from the outset, in order to develop a consensus about perceived
constraints to rural development, productivity and family welfare. It is
important that some actions show immediate results, in order to build the
confidence of beneficiaries in the project. Also, pre-testing of
technology to overcome identified constraints is important before full-
scale implementation, since beneficiaries' disappointment or possible loss
of investment are likely to have lasting consequences for acceptance of
project activities. Finally, sustained popular support will be forthcoming
only when promised developments are clearly and successfully demonstrated
and when the techniques are both acceptable and accessible to most
beneficiaries.



_43 _ATTACRMEN
C3~~~~~~~3
Office of the National EconoLzic
(NRDcc) 0911/ ,~~~              and Social Development Board
No. (NRDCC) 0911/                              962  Krung  Kasem  Road
Bangkok 10100
June IJ , 1989
Dear  Mr. Graham  Donaldson:
This letter is in response to your letter dated May 12, 1989
regarding the Project Performance Audit Report sending to us for comments.
After reviewing through this PPAR, we found out that it has
already covered all critical points concerning project implementation. As
a project coordinating office, we would like to conclude that the key
factor contributing to the successful of implementing such project is the
close coordination among doners (iorld Bank, USAID and UNDP) which seem
to be lack in this project. This should be initiated and take action by
brld Bank at the begining through the end of project life, but in fact
there were only four missions at an average of nine-month interval to
supervise during project implementation.
However, in our point of view, the project performance was
satisfactory in term of assistance provided to run-up the project, to
strengthen the M & E activities and to build up the strong management
system for rural development in Thailand
Yours Sincerely,
Sumet Tantivejkul
Deputy-Secretary General
NESDB
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief
Agriculture, Infrastruclture and Human Resourees Division
Operations Evaluation Department
World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U*S.A.



T HA IL AN D
rw                     ~~NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B  U  R M  A                e -                                                                   Poverty Areas (by district)
-20                                                    O                                                      *- District Boundaries (poverty areas only) 20'-
r   A   3   ,%\y                                         --- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Changweot (Province) Boundaries
f   Fi    91  R ,< t 4w  w.                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~Regional Boundaries
Ab uH -gns                      Paa                                                .    International Boundaries
\   |  - - N¢  Tl->\ \J n                <               ,  q  >                LAO  PEOPLE'S
,,,  AS;                                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                         DEMOCRATICTL:
s   !19 ~       ~~~~~~ '.-      f Xs    H               -        S--N        4,         S -I  '           l
'--"  %'V'.-j;   tgJetS  /X^t'j-o--C-',                                       A~~~0L-  7_
_16e   i   <        vS       Sa \          I  f    {          9   rA v pq /vSlthotA   .  it           J- ._Th|,,ic,
LJf
/ 8 Ot joAV"t?t; r->n   z    n    :L-L.X-  t-~~~~~~~~'
~ hi(        tpr,xt;J  phi Blf 
;        1            PO° wbb  8NkO _4  
> tR- z ,*okt _  j
p  C                   ^-rn,sl)           >     C                       OVRYAES   YRGO
- , >,,,/  @\NOTHESTPholC5DmCSsBihkR0T
16-I '                          \    tttBr                                           (NRHI                                      0r
\  SC   E   N   T   R  A  L-;  z  oR  .}ohriJ -TOTAL-  36 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 242 ^4~~~~7
C   -,           t>~~~>               -- -^f ~~-   -  -.^ o  S)~
Rs     ' .              .                                           ,^  o,tL
t) '.' _}' t ' .. .;W 
12'             :             *l;rg KhAd Khtn                                _ \                                                      12'
S         -       .        ./                                                                            KAMPUCHEA, Su  ._
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OET ARA BY hsREGhION rbr 
,   \   . CbOn trs~~~~C, 
0             ~~                                       ~                          Orl h5 rehD rS rtr irp.ty. 0 lV 
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t -W ftf b.- PO'D                                                    t     A  V5
Chp: ,,eEw - o1 hW. -. -a-.*
-'                                                                                   -W{ A  P.,Fj"  '  _.
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-.h  Th. 200   30   ._
Kiloteelen       )      >        t                                          M A L A r S I A         ffi~~~~~Sh
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  6 00(>r* eSnd;R III
0~ ~ f°°MALAY                                                                                    Ow".10'St     I A. ,< s



