Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FI1LE COPY
Report No. 476 1-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 29, 1984
Projects Department
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1.00        =  B 23.0
B 1.00       =  $0.04
B 1 million  =  $43,478
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ha   =  hectare (2.47 acres)
m    =  meter (3.28 feet)
km   =  kilometer (0.62 miles)
kg   =  kilogram (2.2 pounds)
rai  =  rai (0.16 hectares)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARD             = Accelerated Rural Development Department
BOB             = Bureau of the Budget
CG             = Comptroller General's Department
0SC             = Civil Service Conmission
DNFE            = Department of Nonformal Education
DOF             = Department of Fishery
IFAD           = International Fund for Agricultural Development
IPIED           = Information Processing Institute for Education Development
JICA            = Japanese International Cooperation Agency
MOAC            = Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOE             = Ministry of Education
MOI             = Ministry of Interior
MOPH            = Ministry of Public Health
NESDB           = National Economic and Social Development Board
NRDC            = National Rural Development Committee
NRDCC           = National Rural Development Coordinating Committee
NRDP            = National Rural Development Program
PAP             = Poverty Areas Program
PIDER          = Investment Program for Rural Development (Mexico)
REGP            = Rural Employment Generation Program
TURA            = Thai University Research Association
UNDP            = United Nations Development Programme
USAID           = United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND: NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND .........        .1. . 
A.  Project Summary... . .  . .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.  Agriculture and the Rural Economy      .  . . . . I .  .        2
C.  Government Rural Development Policy  .   .   .   . . . . . . . .   3
D.  Bank Lending Strategy  ....  .  .  .   .... . .  .  .  .  .   .    4
II. RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN THAILAND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
A.  Results of Earlier Rural Development Programs  . . . . . .   5
B.  The New National Rural Development Program . . . . . . .        6
Conceptual Framework           ...6
National Program Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
C. The Poverty Areas Program..                                      9
Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Selection of Poverty Districts . .                            9
Program Design . . . . . . . . .. . . . .                    10
Program Cost .                            . . . . . . . .    11
III. THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
A.  Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
B.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . .   .       .    .    14
C.  Brief Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
D. Detailed Features. ...........   17
Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       17
Training   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
Project Supported Subprograms  .  . . . .  . . . . . . .    19
Village Based Schemes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Farmer Participation Schemes . . . . . . . . . . ... . .  24
Infrastructure Subprograms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Thailand during April 1983 and comprised Messrs. D.A. Forno, H.M. Kim, C.J.
Maguire and R.C. Ng. Messrs. J.C. English, J.C. Collins and consultants
J.L. Falvey, D.L. Head and J. Ingersoll also contributed greatly to the
project's formulation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
E.  Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
F.    Project  Cost   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  29
G.    Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  30
H. Procurement ......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
I. Disbursements .. .                 .30
J.  Accounts and Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
IV. PROGRAM ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION .34
A.  Organization of the National Program . . . . . . . . . . .   34
Organizational Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
Organizational Structure .. .35
B.  Implementation of the Poverty Areas Program  . . . . . . .   3/
The Planning-Budgeting Process . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3/
Subprogram Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   39
A.    Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  39
Improved National Resource Management  . . . . . . . . .   41
Incremental Production .. .41
Impact on Food Supply and Incomes  . . . . . . . . . . .   42
Nutritional Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
Social Impact and Role of Women  . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
Impact on the Environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   45
B.    Justification    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  45
Economic Rate of Return . .            .45
Sensitivity Analysis .. .46
C. Fiscal Impact .. .46
D.    Risks  .    .    .  .    .    .  .    .  .    .  .    .   .    .  .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .  48
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . .
ANNEXES
1. Summary of Poverty Area Subprograms
2. Physical Targets of MOAC and MOI (ARD) Poverty Area Subprograms
3. Table 1: Cost of MOAC and MOI (ARD) Poverty Area Subprograms
Table 2: Phasing of Expenditures for MOAC and MOI Poverty Area
Subprograms
Table 3: Schedule of Disbursements
4.  Training Costs in MOAC and OTI (ARD) Poverty Area Subprograms
5. (Chart 24520): Organizational Framework for the National Rural
Development Program
6. (Chart 24522): Program Planning-Budgeting Cycle
7. Gross Margins from Subprogram Activities
8. Economic Analysis
9. Documents in the Project File
MAP IBRD No.17589



I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Summary
1.01      The project would strengthen and support key elements of
Thailand's National Rural Development Program (NRDP) which was
introduced in 1982 at the commencement of the current 5-year plan (1982
to 1986). The NRDP involves the most significant regulatory, planning,
budgetary and management reforms to have been instituted in Thailand to date
to address the alleviation of rural poverty. The reforms have been designed
to overcome past difficulties and in particular would promote continuity
of implementation and greatly increase coordination of investments by the key
ministries responsible for rural development, i.e., Agriculture, Education,
Health and Interior. The NRDP has been specifically designed to ensure that
funds do go to those areas wher- 1-hey arp most needed. Criteria have been
established to determine poverty districts and to aid in the selection,
implementation and management of investments.  The Program has already been
operating for two years and Government's own funding has amounted to about
$77 million.
1.02      The proposed project, which amounts to $157 million, has been
designed to (i) help develop the NRDP into an effective institution for
coordinating and increasing cost-effectiveness of Government investments in
rural areas; (ii) foster increased participation of local communities in
selecting and implementing investments best suited to their own needs; and
(iii) to support investments in poverty districts to increase agricultural
production, and to meet basic nutritional and infrastructure needs. Such
investments would be made through 18 types of "self-help" subprograms. These
would constitute a list of investment packages from which local communities
could choose those best suited to their needs. The project would be
implemented throughout the area covered by the NRDP Poverty Areas Program
(PAP), which is in 286 poverty designated districts (40% of country total),
spanning 38 provinces (51% of total). Some 4 million households live in
areas covered by the Poverty Areas Program and more than half would benefit
from this first phase project. The Bank would finance mainly civil works,
training, agriculture, livestock and fishery inputs for the 18 subprograms.
JICA, UNDP and USAID would provide parallel financing for technical assistance
and computer equipment to strengthen the national monitoring and evaluation
system, and to conduct special studies into various aspects of the NRDP where
early feedback is important. Many of the PAP districts are extremely poor
in resources and, while investments would be channeled as far as possible
into productive activities, some aspects of the Program would aim at providing
basic needs and at mitigating underemployment through public works and
community activities. These aspects of the Program should be seen as a
"holding-operation" which is needed until growth in employment outside of
agriculture begins to narrow the gap between labor availability and rural
employment opportunities.



- 2 -
1.03      The main risks for the project center on the need to maintain a
high level of political commitment to the NRDP, and on the importance of
developing an effective monitoring and evaluation system with which to
determine the impact of the NRDP and to make modifications as it evolves.
A second level of risks relate to the technical capacity of the implementing
agencies. For this reason, the subprograms supported under the project
would be those for which complementary support is being provided to the
technical agencies responsible for subprogram implementation through other
Bank-supported projects. The project is perceived to be the first in a series
to support poverty alleviation through the National Rural Development Program
and subsequent projects may well support health and education aspects of the
Program.
B. Agriculture and the Rural Economy
1.04      Out of Thailand's population of about 50 million, about 80%
live in rural areas and earn their livelihood principally in agriculture.
There are about 5 million farm households and 2 million nonfarm households
in the rural areas. The rural sector of Thailand is in many ways
exceptional: (a) it is a major net exporter of food grains; (b) it has grown
and diversified rapidly over a long and sustained period; (c) Thai farmers
have been found to respond vigorously to relative price incentives; (d)
ownership and usufruct of cultivated land are widely and fairly evenly
distributed; and (e) labor mobility within rural areas and between rural and
urban areas is very high in both directions.
1.05      The performance and growth of the agricultural sector in Thailand
has been the determining influence behind the dynamism of the nation's
economy. Agricultural production (GDP in constant terms) grew at an annual
rate of about 5% during 1960-80. In 1982, agriculture contributed about 21%
of GDP and 64% of exports, and provided full or part-time employment for
more than 50% of the country's labor force. Furthermore, with real agricul-
tural GDP per capita growing at over 2% p.a. in the past two decades, and the
relatively even distribution of farm holdings, the strong agricultural
performance has contributed to a substantial reduction of rural poverty.
1.06      The process at work in Thai agriculture over the past quarter
century has been the commercialization and diversification of the rural
sector, predominantly in response to opportunities in world trade. The key
factors in this development have been efficiency of private markets, the
extension of the road system, the rapid expansion of the cultivated area,
the expansion of irrigation, the introduction of high-value crops and
mechanization in response to market opportunities. The expansion of the
cultivated area by 4.0% p.a. has been the main force behind the development
of Thai agriculture over the past two decades, and has accounted for most of
the 5% p.a. growth in output, while yield increases played a relatively minor
role.



- 3 -
1.07      In recent years, however, growth of agricultural production has
been gradually falling off. Agricultural GDP in constant prices, which had
grown at about 5.5% p.a. iTI the 1960s, slowed to 5.1% p.a. in 1970-75 and
3.5% p.a. in 1975-80. The slowdown in the 1970s was even more pronounced for
the crop subsector, which contributes 73% of agricultural GDP. The
deterioration occurred primarily because earlier growth had been achieved
through expansion of the cultivated area, but more recently, poorer marginal
lands increasingly came under cultivation and average yields, already low
relative to other developing countries, decreased further.
1.08      The steady and widespread growth of agriculture has been a signif-
icant factor in the overall reduction in the incidence of poverty from 57%
in 1962/63 to about 30% now. Poverty in Thailand is overwhelmingly a rural
problem, and in rural areas over one-third of the population is in absolute
poverty (i.e., annual incomes less than $165 per capita). Poverty is also
heavily concentrated in the peripheral regions of the country. Over 80% of
the poor are in the rural areas of the Northern, North-Eastern and Southern
Regions. A slowdown in agricultural growth will clearly make Government's aim
of continuing to reduce the incidence of poverty more difficult to achieve.
Of primary concern is the 3% annual growth in the labor force which creates
the need for some 700,000 new jobs each year. Absorbtion of this level of
labor influx would require growth rates of around 8% p.a., whereas in reality
only a 5% aggregate overall growth rate is expected. Moreover, with
agriculture expected to grow at only about 3% per annum, it must be
anticipated that unemployment in rural areas will grow, leading to more
serious income disparities.
C. Government Rural Development Policy
1.09      Recognizing that growth in rural areas is primarily dependent upon
agriculture, the main objectives of the Government's policy are: (a) to
increase agricultural production and expand agricultural exports rapidly to
help the balance of payment deficit; (b) to alleviate rural poverty and reduce
inter-regional income disparities; (c) to better utilize the available land
suitable for agriculture, protect against deforestation, conserve natural
resources, and minimize the degradation of the environment; and (d) to
increase the capability of rural communities to address their own problems
and achieve development.
1.10      With the commencement of the current 5-year plan (1982-86),
Government instituted a number of far-reaching management reforms in the
way rural development programs are planned and funded. These reforms are
described in the following section. The new management system should be
viewed in the context of the following major Government strategies:



- 4 -
(a) the creation of an environment in which the private sector will have the
incentives and confidence to boost production, marketing and exports; (b)
demarcation of poverty areas in which line agencies are to focus their
programs, particularly for agriculture, rural infrastructure (physical and
social) and community development; (c) the establishment of a land use policy
for better utilization of land suitable for agriculture, including the
required legal and regulatory framework to give individual farmers title to
their land and a clear demarcation of zones reserved for forestry and
conservation; and (d) strengthening local units of government to enable them
to implement programs to meet locally identified needs and to develop local
resources. This strategy conforms well with the Bank's agricultural lending
strategy for Thailand as described below.
D. Bank Lending Strategy
1.11      The primary objective of the Bank's lending operations in rural
Thailand is to achieve growth with equity. Thus while increased agricul-
tural production is clearly central to the Bank's strategy, both for growth
and poverty alleviation, the broader strategy being followed to achieve this
objective is to boost the level of economic activity in rural areas, thus
creating job opportunities directly and through resulting spinoff activities.
Preference is given to developments closest to poverty areas in the
expectation that more of the benefits would accrue to the poverty group.
With the potential for agricultural area expansion almost fully realized in
Thailand, future economic growth in rural areas must increasingly come from
crop intensification and diversification and through off-farm employment.
1.12      In the past, Bank support for rural development in Thailand has
primarily focused on strengthening ministerial technical capabilities; i.e.,
in Population and Health (Cr. 767-TH), in Education (Ln. 1271-TH), for
Agriculture (Extensions Lns. 1393-TH and 1752-TH; Research Ln. 1922-TH;
Land Development Cr. 929-TH; Land Reform Ln. 2198-TH; and Livestock Ln.
1199-TH; for rural roads Ln. (1198-TH); and for Electrification Lns. 1527,
1817 and 2312-TH). Although three of these earlier Bank-financed projects /1
supported both agriculture and rural infrastructure, the Bank has not financed
any large integrated rural development projects in Thailand because of weak
administrative linkages between sectors and because of strong resistance to
decentralize authority for planning and implementation. However, the
planning, budgetary and management reforms introduced during the current
5-year plan period provide the means for developing a more coordinated and
better focused multisectoral approach to rural development. The proposed
project supports this new management system and draws on the Bank's experience
other nationally managed programs, e.g., the Mexican PIDER program (Lns.
1110-1462 and 1503-ME), the Colombian IRD program (Lns. 1352 and 2174-CO), and
/1 North East Rural Development (NERD) 1198-TH, Northern Agricultural
Development (NADP) 929-TH, Agricultural Land Reform Project (ALRO)
2198-TH.



the Korean Sae-Ma-U1 program (Ln. 1215-KO). While the benefits from such
programs have been mixed, particularly in the early years of their
implementation, the Bank's overall experience has been that they have led to
effective resource mobilization in rural areas, and in particular, to
increasingly greater participation of local inhabitants in the improvement of
their own environment and economic status. They have also provided an
effective mechanism for achieving widespread, multi-sectoral development,
particularly in poor rural areas where large elements of welfare are required.,
The recent Project Performance Report on the first Bank-financed project to
support PIDER (Report No. 4617), together with the Staff Working Paper (No.
558) on community participation, give valuable insights into implementation
difficulties. A number of the lessons learned are pertinent for the Thai
program, and were taken into account in appraising the project.
II. RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN THAILAND
A. Results of Earlier Rural Development Programs
2.01      Over the past 20 years, the 16 successive Thai administrations have
consistently demonstrated a commitment to rural development, and have direc-
ted large amounts of money to that end. However, most of the programs have
been short-lived, as the program focus often shifted with each new adminis-
tration. Programs also lacked locational specificity, so that benefits often
accrued to the better-off areas and there were considerable leakages of
funds to non programs activities. Summaries of these earlier Government
programs are given in the Project File.
2.02      The earlier programs focussed heavily on the supply of inputs
(goods, services, infrastructure and training). Emphasis on management, on
the other hand, was weak because of seemingly insurmountable difficul-
ties in tackling shortcomings in the Thai bureaucratic structure which has
evolved over the past three-quarter of a century. Hence programs inevitably
ran into problems caused by over-centralization of decision processes, lack
of coordination between and within agencies because of excessive autonomy,
and an unusually high ratio of headquarters staff to field staff in most
departments. A common problem has been that management units (or division
directors) have been charged with responsibility for particular projects,
often in conjunction with multilateral or bilateral assistance. But the
project management has lacked the authority to obtain resources and to
obtain the cooperation of other management units, even within the same
department or ministry. This, combined with competing demands among
projects for ministerial budgets and manpower, has inevitably resulted in
achievements falling well short of objectives. Consequently, past rural
development efforts have not led to replicable models, and their impact has



- 6 -
been quite limited and localized. (Inappropriate technology and implementa-
tion methods have also affected replicability of projects). Therefore, in
spite of quite large budgetary resources being directed toward development in
rural areas, income disparities have continued to grow along with increasing
rural unemployment and under employment. GDP per capita in the Central region
of Thailand, including Bangkok currently stands at about B 28,000 ($1,217),
roughly twice the level in the south, three times higher than in the north and
almost five times higher than in the Northeastern region.
2.03      This was the context in which the objectives and strategy for rural
development for the current 5-year plan (1982-86) were formulated, and which
provides the basis for the proposed project. The NRDP was formulated by the
Central Planning Agency of Government (NESDB) and the details were developed
over several years through subcommittees made up of senior government and
academic staff highly regarded in their particular field. Extensive use was
also made of consultants, partially funded under Credit 929-TH, and visits
were made to other countries with nationally managed programs. Various
Bank reports detailing experiences from such programs were also shared with
Government. Under the new National Rural Development Program, efforts have
been made (a) to link the planning process and the budgetary system; (b) to
institutionalize the procedures by which ministries, departments, provinces
and village interact and define responsibilities; (c) to prioritize program
areas and activities; and most importantly (d) to institutionalize a high
level policy setting body which would provide current and successive Govern-
ments with a legal, organizational and procedural framework for directing
national rural development.
B. The New National Rural Development Program
Conceptual Framework
2.04      The new Program began in October 1982.  It has been designed to
improve the impact of rural development by targetting funds on poverty areas
where they are most needed, and to improve the procedures and incentives for
Government agencies and local communities to participate in rural development.
It also strives to achieve these objectives in a more cost-effective way by
setting criteria and unit cost standards to be used in selecting and imple-
menting subprogram investments. The NRDP, which encompasses important
regulatory and procedural reforms, offers the most promising means to date for
addressing problems of rural poverty and unemployment in Thailand, and its
implementation and strengthening are major objectives of both the Thai Govern-
ment and the Bank.
2.05      The NRDP is coordinated by a Cabinet level, National Rural Develop-
ment Committee (NRDC) which is chaired by the Prime Minister. The NRDC coor-
dinates the national plans and priorities for rural development and approves
the appropriation of budgetary funds for initiating projects in rural areas.
The new management system enables formalized, senior-level discussions and
negotiations between the Bureau of the Budget (BOB) and ministries responsible



-7-
for rural development (Agriculture, Education, Health and Interior), through
which development targets and budgets are set. The targets are set in terms
of the five-year plan and annual work programs, and are quite specific as to
sectoral objectives, physical location and costs of investments. Funding is
incremental to normal ministerial budgets and is provided generally for one
year only for each subproject; i.e. funds are used only to initiate new pro-
jects in the selected poverty districts. In subsequent years, the technical
ministry responsible is required to make appropriate provision for the sub-
project in its normal budget. Also important is the objective that, to the
maximum extent possible, subprograms investments should be self-sustaining.
Therefore, simple, in-kind cost recovery schemes are included in most sub-
projects to help villagers maintain projects. This contrasts with former
programs whereby ministries developed their own programs with little attention
to operation and maintenance and without knowledge of programs of other
ministries.
2,06      Once the annual program has been established, the new management
system is designed to allow individual ministries to retain authority and a
good deal of flexibility over subprogram implementation.  It enables the NRDC
to impose a high degree of discipline and accountability, but at the same
time, does not encroach on individual Ministerial authority. By limiting the
role of the NRDC, and particularly its secretariat (NRDCC), to administration
of policy matters and to coordination, the types of jurisdictional problems
encountered in other nationally managed programs have been largely avoided.
In addition, budgetary appropriations for the NRDP provide attractive incen-
tives to line agencies to participate in the Program. Where cooperation bet-
ween agencies has not worked well in other programs, decentralization of
authority for planning and implementation has been found to be effective.
Under the Thai Program, the process is still very much "top-down," but regula-
tions permit provincial authorities to exercise considerable control over line
agency programs in their areas where the necessary skills and staff exist at
the Provincial level. This is already occurring in a few provinces and
studies would be included under the project to identify ways to strengthen
provincial planning and management capacity. The mechanisms are therefore in
place for decentralization to gradually occur, but implementation of the NRDP
in its early stages is not dependent on such decentralization. Local
participation, which has been one of the most important ingredients in other
nationally managed programs, has also been given strong emphasis in the Thai
Program. Procedures have been developed and criteria established to enable
local communities to participate actively in the selection, implementation and
management of projects in their area. Nevertheless, while the mechanisms for
this are in place, considerable evolution of this process will be needed. The
monitoring and evaluation system to be established under the project, together
with special studies and training, would give particular attention to
fostering local participation.
2.07      The new management system has been in place for the past two years.
While there are many technical and procedural matters to be improved, the
spirit of cooperation and commitment to the Program at all levels of
Government (National and Provincial) is good. A key factor is clearly the



- 8 -
strong commitment to the Program by the Prime Minister, as evidenced by his
active participation as Chairman of the National Rural Development Committee
(NRDC). The following section describes the national Program and the parts of
the Program to be supported under the Bank Project. Project details are
described in Chapter 3, and the organizational structure, budget process and
management for the new Program are given in Chapter 4.
National Program Features
2.08      Within the overall framework of the National Rural Development
Program (NRDP) four special rural development programs have been designed for
implementation during the current 5-year plan period. Each of these pro-
grams has been designed to tackle priority development needs which could not
be achieved through regular ministerial programs because of: (a) the level
of coordination needed between ministries, provincial staff, etc.; and (b)
the specific cabinet-level commitment, budget and manpower resources which
need to be focussed on the problem. These programs are as follows:
(a) the Poverty Area Program (PAP), designed to focus on the
longer-term development needs of the country's poorest rural
areas;
(b) the Rural Employment Generator Program (REGP), designed to provide
off-season, labor-intensive employment, and thereby prevent
disruptive seasonal migration to Bangkok and a few other major
centers;
(c) The Security Areas Programs, designed to help those villages
which have an added problem resulting from local
insurgency, or from their nearness to the Khampuchean
conflict zone; and
(d) the Water Resources Development Program, designed to achieve
a balanced program of small water-resource development nationwide.
2.09      The proposed Bank support for the Government's National Rural
Development Program concentrates on supporting the institutional development
of the new management system, i.e. the various committees and procedures for
program budgeting, monitoring and evaluation etc., which are crucial to the
revised national rural development effort. However, as the means to achieve
the institutional strengthening, and to directly support the poverty
alleviation effort, the project would finance components of the above,
Poverty Areas Program (PAP). Also, while not directly supporting the Rural
Employment Generation Program (REGP), the Bank project would overlap with
some REGP program areas. In such cases the two programs (PAP and REGP)
should be viewed as complementary and the Bank project would seek to improve
coordination between them. In the case of labor-intensive PAP sub-programs,
budgetary procedures enable integration with REGP at the township level.
This integration is seen to be desirable. The following section describes
the Poverty Areas Program and the development activities to be supported
under the project. Further details are available in the Project File.



- 9 -
C. The Poverty Areas Program
Objectives
2.10      The Poverty Areas Program (PAP) is principally designed to focus on
lithe needs of the poor population who have missed out on the development
benefits available so far" (Fifth Plan, Part VI, para. 3.1). Five principles
adopted under the Fifth Plan in formulating the program were:
(a)  Primary consideration would be given to the development of
specific areas - with poor, and densely populated areas to be
given top priority;
(b)  The populations' living standard would be developed to a
subsistence level, with minimum basic services to be available
everywhere in rural areas which are densely populated and poor;
(c)  Emphasis would be laid on the need of making improvments so that
the people can gradually do more to take care of themselves;
(d)  Actual problems affecting the poor population throughout the
country would be alleviated, with techniques which may be handled
by the people themselves; and
(e)  The people would be put in a position to participate to a maximum
degree in solving their own problems.
(Abstracted from the Thai 5th 5-Year Plan)
2.11      Expenditures under the proposed Bank project would be about 56% on
agricultural production and 35% on infrastructure and social aspects. When
looked at across the entire poverty areas program, the breakdown of expendi-
tures is about 33% agriculture production, 42% social (health 37%, education
5%) and 23% infrastructure. In the future, greater emphasis will need to be
given to education as the development of new job opportunities and training
of the vast numbers of underemployed workers entrapped in agriculturally
resource poor areas, will provide the most lasting impact on rural poverty.
NESDB has indicated that special emphasis is to be given to employment in
the preparaton of the next 5-year plan for Thailand (1987-91), and it is
also anticipated that there will be a greater emphasis on education in rural
areas during the next plan period. Support is included under the proposed
project for the Sixth Plan Preparaton and other forms of Bank support are
under discussion. Primary and non-formal education are also important
components of a recently appraised Basic Education project for Thailand.
Selection of Poverty Districts
2.12      The identification of poverty districts in Thailand was initiated
by the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB). In 1980 a
quick screening of districts was carried out. Average per capita income was



- 10 -
not used as a selection criterion. Instead selection was based on the premise
that in rural areas, poverty is a result of a population being dependent upon
an inadequate resource base. As a result, the principal characteristics used
for selection varied between the major regions of the country. In the Upper
North, land slope was the determining factor; in the Lower North, type of
landholding and amount of water for agriculture; in the Northeast reliance on
rainfed agriculture and rainfall patterns; and in the south, size of rubber
landholdings and fishing operations were used to rank the districts.
2.13      It was subsequently decided that the focus of the program would be
on the village and that, in principle, subprojects would be implemented in
selected villages and not on a district-wide basis. A survey was then carried
out of 500 villages. District officials were asked to rank them and then more
detailed field surveys were undertaken of local conditions to determine a
Village Development Status Index. When the ranking of district officials were
weighted by district per capita income estimates, the correlation between the
village index scores and the ranking by officials was found to be high. On
this basis, a ranking of villages in 286 districts by district officials was
used to determine a list of 12,000 poverty villages to be the target of the
Poverty Areas Program. A breakdown of the Poverty Districts by region is
given below and their locations are shown in the attached map (IBRD 17589).
Region                        Provinces      Districts
Northeast                        17            172
North                            16             82
South                             5             32
Total                       38           286
Program Design
2.14      The subprograms within the PAP are of two broad types:  (i)
production oriented activities, and (ii) physical and social infrastructural
activities. The objectives of these programs are summarized as follows:
(a) Production Oriented Activities
(i) Village activities. The subprograms included here are
directed at improving subsistence oriented production,
particularly in activities which require community or group
resource development and use e.g., community fish ponds,
livestock exchange programs and village wood lots. Emphasis
is also placed on development and use of small water
resources.



- 1i -
(ii) Production support activities. These include a series of
subprograms to assist individual farmers or groups improve
their resources, e.g., through soil conservation or
improvement, and through improved production techniques.
(b) Social and Physical Infrastructure
(i) Health and Sanitation. These subprograms attempt to upgrade
the health and nutritional status of poor rural households,
with emphasis on village level primary health care, communi-
cable disease control, domestic sanitation and water use and
provision of district hospitals and township health centers.
(ii) Human resource development. A series of subprograms are
designed to upgrade human resources, e.g., to improve
literacy, and to provide supplementary educational materials,
leadership development and legal assistance.
(iii) Infrastructural component. These subprograms are to improve
local infrastructure which cannot be done without government
technical and financial assistance, e.g., rehabilitation of
access bridges to poverty villages.
Program Cost
2.15      A total of 36 subprograms have been defined for inclusion in the PAP
program. Proposed incremental expenditure amounts to $305 million over the
Fifth Plan Period (1982 to 1986) and would be divided among the partici-
pating ministries as shown in Table 1. Details of proposed Government
incremental expenditures on each of the subprograms for the PAP are given in
the Project File. After projects have been included under the PAP program,
subsequent Government expenditures for operating and maintaining the
sub-project are provided for through normal ministerial budgets. PAP program
funds are used only to finance new works and materials and are not used to
supplement ministerial salaries. Further information on recurrent costs and
on the budgetary implications is given in paras. 5.17 and 5.18.



- 12 -
Table 1: POVERTY AREAS PROGRAM /a
Project
period
Program costs (million Baht)/a                     1984
Agency responsible   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986  Total   %             -86      %
Min. of Agr. and
Coops (MOAC)         1b4    412    478    604    684  2,332   33   1,766    25
Min. of Interior
(MOI)                 101    159    270    436    677  1,643   23   1,383    20
Min. of Public
Health (MOPH)         349    521    569    575    613  2,627   37   1,757    25
Min. of Education
(MOE)                  16      60      60     89      89    314    5       238      3
Administration
(administered by
NRDCC/NESDB)            -      13      23      26     27      89    1       237/b   3
Total Base Costs
(B million)      620  1,165  1,400  1,730  2,090  71005  100   5,381/b  77
Total Base Costs
($ million)       27      50    61        75      91    305  100       234/b  77
/a Discrepancies due to rounding.
/b Additional $7 million added to this column only, to reflect additional
expenditures to be made under project on strengthening the M&E system.
Remainder of data drawn from 5-year plan.
r



- 13 -
III. TRE PROJECT
A.  Background
3.01      In the two years the program has been operating, i.e. Thai FY82
through FY83, some $77 million has been spent. Another $234 million
is included in the five-year plan for the period 1984 through 1986.
Implementation of the program has started well and considerable effort has
been given to identifying and correcting weaknesses in the planning and
budget allocation cycles. The proposed project would strengthen the
mechanisms for this, primarily by supporting the planning and establishment
of a monitoring and evaluation system. Special studies would also be
included in the proposed project to provide early feedback and recommenda-
tions on ways to improve training and technical aspects of subprograms in
conjunction with the M&E system. While all of the subprograms are tech-
nically sound, they will require modification during the project period
to make them more effective, and to bring them more in line with the
"self-help" concept of the NRDP. A consultant study commissioned by the
NRDP Secretariat (NRDCC) and financed under Cr. 929-TH, has recently been
completed and has made extensive recommendations for improving subprograms.
This provides a good basis for strengthening the program. In appraising the
project, the mission predicated its findings on the fact that the NRDP is an
ongoing and evolving program. The proposed project has therefore been kept
simple and flexible in design, recognizing that many improvements will need to
be made as the program progresses, but based on the view that such
improvements can only be achieved through learning during implementation. The
project therefore seeks to strengthen those areas where weaknesses currently
exist and where future difficulties can be anticipated. Overall, the project
would focus on improving the effectiveness of the current program, such that
if it can be developed into an effective mechanism for addressing rural
poverty, it would again become a major part of the next five-year plan, i.e.
1987 through 1991,
3.02      The proposed loan would establish a new focus for the Bank's
dialogue with Government on rural development in agriculture, education,
health and for rural infrastructure. The program is national in scope and
involves each of the technical ministries responsible for rural development,
as well as the agencies responsible for planning (NESDB), budget (BOB), and
accounts (Comptroller General (CG)), as well as the Civil Service Commission
(CSC). It establishes the mechanism for channeling funds to designated
priority districts and for greatly increasing the authority of Township
(Tambon) Councils over the use of such funds. Strong political commitment to
the program exists, and it will continue to be an important ingredient, as
will the cooperation and support of the major multilateral aid/lending
agencies. The widely held commitment in government to developing the NRDP



- 14 -
into an effective tool for strengthening rural development coincides with
the Bank's lending strategy in Thailand which gives high priority to
alleviating poverty and to achieving growth through equity.
3.03      Since the proposed Bank loan is focussed on strengthening the
management system for the National Program through support for agricultural
and infrastructural activities, opportunities may also develop for subsequent
Bank assistance for rural development in the health and education sectors.
Initially it was envisaged that the Bank loan would support agriculture,
rural infrastructure and health components of the PAP, which together com-
prise over 90% of total program costs (see para. 2.15). However, prior to
appraisal, the Bank's Population, Health and Nutrition Department decided
that the health component (37% of total PAP cost) was too large to support
without reaching some understanding with Government on a time frame for
further strengthening the implementation capacity of the Ministry of Public
Health through a "free standing" project. (Government did not request
support for education as the amount currently allocated for education under
the PAP has been kept relatively low for the current five-year plan period
(5% of PAP), pending further rationalization of strategies for strengthening
education in rural areas for the next 5-year plan period, (ref. para. 2.11).
B.. Project Objectives
3.04      The objectives of the pro Ject would be:
(i)  to strengthen the planning, budgeting and management aspects of
the newly instituted National Rural Development Program (NRDP),
in order to develop a more effective mechanism for identifying
local needs, for channeling funds to rural areas and to increase
the cost-effectiveness of Thailand's rural development efforts;
and
(ii)  to alleviate poverty in rural areas through simple projects to
increase food productlon, basic nutritional and infrastructure
needs, and to provide employment opportunities through 18 types of
"self-help" subprograms of the PAP, in 286 poverty districts (40%
of country total, spanning 38 of the country's provinces (51% of
total)./i Some 4 Aillico. ru-ral households live in areas covered
by the PAP a-nd more than h£alf would benefit from this first
phase projact,
/1  Tbailand is divlded into 72 Provinces (Changwats), some 692 Districts
(Amphurs) and Sub-districts, and about 6,100 Townships (Tambons).
Tambons or townships are typically made up of 7 to 10 clusters of
houses or small communities known as mubans. Throughout this report,
the more familiar word village will be substituted for muban, even
though it does not properly describe the muban (see Project File).



- 15 -
C. Brief Description
3.05      The following outlines the support proposed under the project
which would be assisted through parallel financing from USAID, UNDP, JICA, and
the World Bank. The project has three main components (a) strengthening of
the National Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system; (b) support for special
studies needed to complement information coming through the M&E system; and
(c) investment in 18 types of subprograms as a means to alleviate rural
poverty and to improve on the effectiveness of the NRDP through implemen-
tation and feedback.
(a)  Strengthening of a monitoring and evaluation system with the capa-
bility of providing timely management information, program progress
and budgetary analysis, and periodic analysis of the impact of the
program on alleviating poverty. Implementation of this component
would be the responsibility of the NRDC subcommittee on monitoring
and evaluation. JICA has provided some 82.1 million for computer
equipment and installation and USAID would provide a further
$5 million to assist in strengthening the system.
(b)  Support for special studies to identify and correct weaknesses in
the program before the M&E system becomes fully functional.
Although development of the M&E system is already underway, it
will take several years before it can provide management with the
full range of timely information needed. Therefore, in this first
phase project, support would be given for studies designed: (i) to
provide quick feedback and recommendations on subprogram implemen-
tation; and (ii) to identify weaknesses in the Program's regulations
and procedures which would affect both the cost-effectiveness of
implementation and the longer term impact of the NRDP. UNDP would
provide some $0.5 million for studies together with support from
USAID for studies included as part of the $5 million USAID support
for strengthening the monitoring and evaluation system. At nego-
tiations Government further indicated its intention of approaching
UNDP for additional funding for new or follow-up studies for which
a need will undoubtedly arise during implementation of the project.
Terms of reference for all studies would be reviewed by the Bank
through the Bank's Special Interest agreements with UNDP. The
initial studies would:
(i) identify management and communication skill needs at the
national, provincial, district and village levels, and through
a second phase study, rationalize and design training programs
in accordance with needs and available resources. Implemen-
tation of the first-phase of this would be the responsibility
of the NRDC subcommittee on Manpower Development. The NRDC
subcommittee on provincial planning would play a role in
implementing the second phase of the study. The study would
be financed by UNDP at a cost of about $350,000.



- 16 -
(ii) analyze various aspects of the administrative procedures,
policy and effectiveness of the National Rural Development
Program as a basis for formulating the rural development
components of the 6th 5-year plan covering the period 1987 to
1991. The NRDC secretariat (NRDCC) would be responsible for
such studies and the first phase study would be done by the
Civil Service Commission.
(iii) review the poverty area subprograms of the MOAC and MOI
to assist the ministerial subcommittees for Rural
Development in the early identification and correction of
problems in the design of subprograms. The respective MOAC
and MOI subcommittees would be responsible for these studies.
Financing for the studies would be provided by USAID and
would build on the findings of the Government initiated study
by the TURA Institute (March 1983),/1 into ways to improve
the technical quality of all subprograms under the PAP. This
study was financed under Cr. 929-TH.
(c)   Support for Self-Help, Agricultural and Infrastructural
Subprograms, viz.
(i) Support for the 16 poverty area subprograms of the MOAC as a
means to address basic food, income, and employment needs in
poverty areas, and through monitoring of implementation, to
achieve more effective subprograms to alleviate poverty. The
MOAC subcommittee for rural development would be primarily
responsible for implementation of this component. The Bank
would finance $26.7 million of subprogram costs, equivalent
to about 40% of total expenditures for these subprograms.
(ii) Support for the 2 poverty areas subprograms of the
Accelerated Rural Development Department of MOI as a means to
address rural unemployment, provide access to poverty
villages and to increase the effective use of village water
resources. Implementation of these subprograms would benefit
from assistance provided by USAID under the Rural Employment
Generation Program (REGP). The MOI subcommittee for Rural
Development would be primarily responsible for implementation
of this component and for proposing ways of integrating
achievements under REGP with the PAP. The Bank would finance
$16.7 million of subprogram costs, equivalent to about 40% of
total expenditures for these subprograms.
/1 TURA: Thai University Research Association.



- 17 -
D. Detailed Features
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.06      The continued success and evolution of the NRDP will depend very
largely on the institutional processes which will allow the system to
continually monitor and evaluate achievements, and to make changes as
appropriate. The development of an effective M&E system is therefore an
integral part of the project and crucial to the Bank's support of the NRDP
(ref. para. 5.21). USAID would finance some $5 million of technical
assistance and operational support for developing the system, while JICA has
already provided some $2.1 million of computer equipment and accessories.
During preparation and appraisal of the project, the Bank worked closely
with the NRDP subcommittee on Monitoring and Evaluation and a satisfactory
framework for strengthening the M&E system was prepared (see Project File).
Many of the operational details will be worked out during implementation of
the project with the help of technical assistance through USAID. In
focussing the M&E systems on the information needed by the township.
district, province, Bureau of the Budget and NRDCC, it is envisaged that
complementary M&E systems would be strengthened in each of the technical
ministries responsible for subprograms: e.g. as proposed under the Bank
assisted support service project for MOAC which was appraised in October
1983.
3.07      An M&E system for the NRDP has been in operation for the past two
years. Its primary function has been to provide all management entities in
NRDC with relevant and timely information on the targetting of village-level
development activities, the status of program implementation, the initial
effects of the projects on the intended beneficiaries, and a periodic
assessment of the impact of the program on specific aspects of village
development. More specific management information is obtained through
special studies to deepen the knowledge of development issues and to assess
the technical feasibility and cost-effectiveness of selected types of
individual subprojects.
3.08      The objective of the M&E project component would be to strengthen
the present system within the framework of the Poverty Areas Program (PAP)
by: (a) removing identified constraints in timely data collection; (b) ac-
celerating data processing; (c) improving analytical procedures; (d) enhanc-
ing the quality of the information generated; (e) deepening the interpre-
tation of results obtained; (f) augmenting studies on special issues; (g)
expediting information supply to relevant decision makers; and (h) by
improving the development impact assessment methodology. The result of this
project component would be an upgraded system which would serve the whole
National Rural Development Program during the 6th 5-year Plan period.
Specific assistance to be provided would be as follows:
(a) System Improvement. Specialists would be recruited to develop
standardized procedures for all stages from data collection to
information utilization at the national, provincial and district
levels;



18 -
(b) Operational Support. Funds would be provided for: (i) data
collection and collation to expedite flow of data to processing
points; (ii) contract for data processing and interpretation;
and (iii) field expenses associated with the evaluation process.
(c) Equipment and Vehicle Support. Vehicles would be supplied to
accelerate the passage of village level data to provincial centers
and IPIED./1 Provincial offices would be equipped with photo-
copiers and calculators would be supplied to provincial and
district offices. At IPIED, a computer system, associated
peripherals and software packages would be acquired;
(d) Technical Training. A training program would be instituted,
commencing with the identification of training needs followed by
M&E training for staff in different agencies according to tasks.
(e) Special Studies. Some funds would be provided for special studies
on specific aspects of the M&E system and on analysis of selected
technical subprograms implemented by the ministries.
Training
3.09      Since a primary focus of the project would be on ways to improve:
(a) coordination between ministries and departments particularly at the
provincial and district levels; (b) planning processes through which
provincial, district and township development objectives are formulated; and
(c) administrative procedures to be followed in implementing the various
subprograms, the project is designed to strengthen the key centers where
interactions and communications take place. While the administrative
mechanisms of the NRDP system have been well documented, a detailed analysis
of the actual communication processes at each level of the administrative
structure has not yet been done. To better understand this, a two part study
funded by UNDP would review both the formal communication channels and how
communications actually take place i.e. who communicates with whom, how often
and by what method. The study would note any obvious failure to employ
communication skills which could improve the information flow.
3.10      The study would require some 12 man-months of consultant time
and would provide a sound basis on which Government could make new or
supplementary investments in training. The study would be under the direction
of the NRDP subcommittee on Manpower Development, which is chaired by the
Civil Service Commissioner (see para. 4.03(a)). Detailed terms of reference
for the study are given in the Project File, as is an overview of the ongoing
technical training programs across all ministries involved with the NRDP.
A IPIED: Information Processing Institute for Education and Development.



- 19 -
3.11      Because of the innovative nature of the program, the Bank-financed
subprograms include substantial support for technical training, totalling some
$8.9 million or 5% of project cost. Another $1.1 million would be used to
support training needed in establishing the NRDP monitoring and evaluation
system (ref. para. 3.08d). As detailed in Annex 4, some 24% of the training
budget would be spent training farmers and village groups. The balance would
be used in training ministerial staff to strengthen their capability to
carry out the program. Training costs include the production and distribution
of pamphlets on various implementation aspects for each subprogram. A number
of pamphlets have already been prepared but will be revised under the project
as experience is gained during implementation.
3.12      Currently neither MOAC nor MOI have central training units; training
is conducted by individual departments and the training budget for the Poverty
Areas Program is incorporated in the various subprograms. Some rational-
-ization would be desirable for the large number of ad-hoc training courses
now being held and a proposal is under consideration in MOAC to establish a
specialized training unit. USAID has financed an initial study on the role of
such a unit, and the Bank conducted a review of the scale of technical and
non-technical training done by the ministries responsible for rural
development (MOAC, MOE, MOPH and MOI) as part of the preparation for the
proposed project. This study is included in the Project File. To promote a
review of the cost-effectiveness of technical training, an assurance would be
obtained that the Budget Bureau would review training cost as a part of their
overall review of recurrent cost associated with the Poverty Areas Program
(see para. 5.22).
Project Supported Subprograms
3.13      The project would support the 16 production-oriented subprograms
being implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC),
and the two infrastructural subprograms of the Accelerated Rural Development
Department (ARD) of the Ministry of Interior. The subprograms are of two
broad categories, i.e. (i) Village based schemes wherein the community is
involved in the implementation and mangement of projects for the general
benefit of the community; and (ii) Farmer participation schemes wherein
subprograms are focussed on assisting individual farmers. Specifically,
the agricultural subprograms have been designed to develop fishponds or to
promote seabass and cockle production, to increase rice and other food crop
production through use of improved seed, fertilizers and use of organic
wastes to produce compost; to reduce soil acidity and the spread of salinity;
or to develop village woodlots for firewood and building poles. Other sub-
programs initiate and improve the health bstatus of backyard livestock,
chicken or pig raising.  The to, infrastrudcture subprograms are designed
to benefit whole communities Wy Amp,roving village access through repair
and construction of important br'idge an,d culvert connections, and by
improving the availability and quality of water from village wells and ponds
for domestic use and for vegetable production. All subprograms have under-
gone testing and standard cost a!nd design criteria have been established.



- 20 -
While additional subprograms may be added, they would first require clear-
ance by the NRDC. The inclusion of new subprograms in the Bank-financed
portion of the program would be contingent on a satisfactory review by the
Bank of the costs and criteria to be used in the selection and imple-
mentation of the subprogram (ref. para. 5.20).
3.14      The 18 subprograms constitute a list of investment activities from
which Township Councils can choose those best suited to their needs.
Because the Program is in its early stages and local capacities are limited,
local choices are currently restricted to the nationally approved sub-
programs. The Township Council reviews suggestions put forward to it by
village development committees. Both the Township Council and village
development committees are established institutions in Thailand. An import-
ant improvement under the Program is that Township Councils have the
ultimate authority in deciding (i) which subprograms are put forward for
funding consideration; (ii) the location for implementing the project within
the designated Poverty District; and (iii) the local participants. Although
suggestions for additions or deletions from the list of subprograms selected
can be made by district government officers, approval must first be obtained
from the Township Council for such modifications. The task of reviewing and
coordinating the district proposals is carried out by the Provincial Devel-
opment Committees, before being forwarded to the NRDCC where they are
reviewed for consistency with the Program guidelines. The plans are then
forwarded to the ministries and departments for comment and for inclusion
in departmental budget requests. In the event that a disagreement arises
between the province and the line agency concerned over elimination of a
particular subprogram, a procedure exists for the province to petition the
NRDC directly to seek additional funding. Once the overall budget allo-
cations are approved by Cabinet, the NRDC approves provincial allocations.
The Provincial Development Committee informs District staff who in turn
inform the Township Council. The Township Council, in consultation with
the district government officers and village development committees,
then make the final determination on the location of subprogram works and
on the village groups or individual participants. Work can then begin
immediately.
3.15      Costs associated with the 16 production oriented subprograms amount
to about $77 million, or 56% of project base costs, while the two infra-
structural subprograms total about $48 million or 35% of project base costs.
Subprogram expenditures would primarily be for civil works $54 million,
$28 million for bridge works, agricultural and livestock supplies $34 mil-
lion, training $8.9 million, research $5.8 million, operation and main-
tenance $4 million and for Government services management and administration
$8 million. Individual subprogram costs vary widely, ranging from less than
$50 for vaccination subprograms to about $300 for subprograms designed to
initiate improved rice seed production by individual farmers, up to $28,000
for community schemes such as for village fishponds. Bridge works would
generally be for lengths of about 20 m and cost around $43,000. The
materials and inputs are procured according to normal Government procedures,



- 21 -
but unlike earlier programs, the Village Council plays an active role in
the procurement process. This has been found to be very effective in
fostering local participation (refer to Footnote I on para. 3.21).
3.16      The technology for each of the subprograms and its applicability
for poverty areas is well developed for most of the subprograms. For those
where it is less well developed, e.g. village woodlots and saline soil
improvement, the rate of implementation would be slower and particular
attention would be given at the time annual budgets are approved to the local
capacity of the technical departments concerned. Important features for each
subprogram are the criteria and standard costs which have been established
to guide in the s--Iection, implementation and management of subprograms. The
criteria also provide a basis for monitoring the cost-effectiveness of the
subprograms. Also, various in-kind, cost recovery mechanisms are incor-
porated to encourage the spread of subprogram benefits. Levels of cost
recovery range from less than 20% to 100% depending on the type of sub-
program, e.g. farmers receiving a buffalo must return the first calf and
later the mother after the second calf is a year old. Similar schemes
exist for subprograms which develop backyard pig production. Subprograms
which promote improved rice and other upland crop production include provi--
sions for farmers to return a proportion of their incremental production iTl
the first year to the Village Council, either for distribution as food or in
the form of improved seed to other villagers. For fishponds, an effective
system is operating whereby a limited number of fishing licenses are sold to
people from outside the village and which permit fishing on certain days
only. Funds raised from the sale of licenses are used to pay for the main--
tenance of the community fishpond. The cost recovery schemes are designed
to help communities sustain activities, rather than to generate revenues for
Government. This is appropriate for these poverty areas and in the short-term
the only practical form of cost recovery. Over the longer term the Program
would lead to greater economic activity in rural areas and thereby expand
the tax base. Details of each of the 18 subprograms are given in the
following section and in the Project File (ref. Annex 9).
3.17      Village Based Schemes:
(a) Village Fisheries Development. The objective is to increase fislh
production from both existing and new construction of water
catchments. The subprogram was initiated in 1982 and in that year
some 75 ponds were constructed and 600 catchments rehabilitated.
Under the project, new community fish ponds covering from 2 to 6 ha
would be constructed on sites selected by village committees and
surveyed by Department of Fishery (DOF) staff to confirm suitabi-
lity. Existing large community ponds would be rehabilitated.
Construction or rehabilitation would be by contract supervised by
DOF. Most of the labor would be hired locally and Township
Councils may contribute to the size of the project through
organizing a share of the labor requirement free of charge.
When completed, the ponds are administered by a village committee
set up under guidance of the Fisheries Officer, the Extension



- 22 -
worker and the Community Development Officer. The ponds
are stocked with fingerlings either from DOF hatcheries or from
private producers. Usually an annual fishing day is declared by
the committee which sets fees to be paid for fishing. DOF also
provides guidance to villages who wish to construct small ponds
using their own labor, and will provide fry for initial stocking
of ponds. It will also promote interest in fisheries through
schools by providing training and construction of school ponds.
During the project period, PAP targets call for construction of
285 community ponds, rehabilitation of about 900 catchments,
construction of 300 school ponds and the holding of some 300
farmer training courses in fish production. Total PAP costs
during the project period amount to $13.4 million.
(b) Village Coastal Fisheries in the South. The objective of this sub-
program, which began in 1983, is to educate and encourage the popu-
lation in the impoverished coastal areas of southern Thailand to
adopt new production techniques for production of cockles and for
raising seabass in bamboo cages. Staff of both the DOF and of the
Department of Non-Formal Education (DNFE) would implement the sub-
program. Villages participating in the seabass production promotion
will receive materials to construct 50 bamboo cages, each of about
50 cu m, and young fish to stock them. Full grown fish will be
harvested for sale at markets and the Village Development
Committees will collect fees to enable maintenance and replacement
of cages, purchase of young fish and purchase of feed. Similarly,
villages with a suitable location of at least 80 ha for cockle
production, will be provided with seed stock and Village
Development Committees will sell the produce at markets.
Replacement stock for seabass and cockle production enterprises
will be raised by DOF for sale to villages. In support of the DOF
promotion efforts, DNFE will develop a fisherman training
capability using mobile libraries, films and radio. Some 20
sites have been targeted for seabass culture and three sites for
cockle production during the project period. Total PAP costs
during the project period are about $1.4 million.
(c) Village Water Utilization. The objective is to promote more effect-
ive use of limited available water resources, since in many
instances land around existing village ponds and shallow wells are
underutilized. This subprogram began in 1983. Extension workers
will be trained and supported by Provincial Subject Matter
Specialist and would initially provide guidance to five families
selected by the Township Council in selected villages as a
demonstration. Each farmer would be provided with seeds of
legumes, sesame and/or vegetable crops to be grown under irriga-
tion, together with necessary fertilzers and pesticides.
Generally, only small plots would be cultivated as water avail-
ability is a major consttaints in most of the poverty areas



- 23 -
covered by the program. Production in excess of seed require-
ments for the next season will be returned to the Township
Council and distributed to others interested in participating.
Training for these will in turn be provided by the extension
worker. It is proposed to reach 12,300 villages with under-
utilized water resources during the project to the benefit of an
anticipated 430,000 families. As the subproject overlaps with
the Nutrition Subprogram (see para. 3.18(a)), they should not be
undertaken simultaneously in the same village. Total PAP costs
during the project period would be about $4.3 million.
(d) Village Woodlots. This project, to be started in 1984, will be
undertaken by the Department of Land Development, together with th
Royal Forestry Department. This project is aimed at educating
people in the North and Northeast on the benefits attainable from
cultivating trees primarily for building poles, charcoal and fire-
wood. In addition, the project aims at growing trees in uninha-
bited areas. The Department of Land Development would be
responsible for the project. It would train officials of the land
development centers and local government officials to appreciate
the value of land, water, and forest resources and would offer
training in growing, maintenance and utilization of trees. It
would also provide saplings suited to particular localities, for
growing in uninhabited village areas. The Village Development
Committee would be responsible for coordinating activities
arranging for allotment of community land for the project,
organizing labor and for issuance of licences for cutting trees,
etc. Some 5,500 ha of nursery would be established and an esti-
mated 35,000 ha of woodlots are targeted for development.  Total
PAP costs over the project period would be about $2.0 million.
(e) Village Cattle and Buffalo Banks. Support would be provided in
poverty areas for an ongoing program begun in 1982, which assists
farmers to obtain draft cattle or buffalo, either by means of
interest free loans, repayable over 5 years, or by a traditional
system under which the farmer receives a breeding animal on loan
over a period taken to produce two calves. The first calf is
returned to the animal bank for subsequent sale if male, or for
loan if female. The mother is returned when the second calf is
one year old. This scheme was developed in connection with
an earlier Bank supported livestock project, and was found to
be quite successful. Funds will be provided by the Department
of Livestock Development to village committees who will purchase
animals for distribution through village committees to poor
households. Villagers will also receive advice on breeding
management and disease prevention from Livestock District
Officers and Extension staff. Some $6.3 million is targetted
for this subprogram during the project period. 19,000 head of
cattle or buffalo are targetted for purchase.



- 24 -
(f)  Village Small Animal Improvement.  This subprogram was initiated
in 1982 by the Department of Livestock Development. The
objectives of the project were to prevent diseases affecting
poultry, to encourage the raising of poultry, and to demonstrate
poultry-raising methods. Department of Livestock Development
staff vaccinate chickens in villages twice a year. In the first
year the state pays for the vaccinations and in subsequent years
the farmers pay costs themselves. The Department of Livestock
Development demonstrates vaccination methods to farmer leaders,
while instructing students in the raising of poultry. During the
project vaccinations are to be made in about 4,000 villages
annually. Costs associated with this subprogram would be about
$1.9 million during the project period.
3.18      Farmer Participation Schemes
(a)  Food Production for Nutrition.  The subprogram will be targeted
towards areas having high levels of malnutrition. Families
having pre-school or school age children, or lactating mothers,
will be selected in each village as primary beneficiaries. The
selected families will be provided with seed of vegetables and
legume crops of particular nutritional value, together with
necessary fertilizers and pesticides. Advice will be given by
agriculture and home economics extension workers on cultivation
and preparation. Selected families will also be provided with
stock to start poultry production as an additional protein
source. Selected villages will also be encouraged to undertake
community gardening projects through farmers associations,
women's groups and youth groups. Part of the production from
supported famili-es and community activities would be contributed
as food supplements to day-care centers, schools or nutrition
centers. Specialists in horticulture and nutrition at the
province and district levels will provide support and training
to extension agents and home economics workers. This subprogram
is similar to that described under para. 3.17(c) above, except
that the former usually would involve use of community water
sources. There is also some overlap with 3.17(f). Some 17,000
ha of vegetable plots are targetted for support and some 320,000
pre-school children would be provided with supplementary food.
Total PAP costs during the proposed period would amount to about
$3.4 million.
(b) Rainfed Rice Improvement. Yields of rainfed rice in poverty
areas are generally low due in part to unsuitable varieties and
to environmental limitations which can be ameliorated by improved
cultivation practices. Further losses occur due to inadequate
storage at the village level. Under the subprogram, improved
varieties will be made available to target villages. In each



- 25 -
village a 10 rai plot (1.6 ha) will be planted as a communal
demonstration under the guidance of the extension worker. The
extension workers will receive special training by subject
matter specialists on improved cultivation methods. Seed from
the demonstration plots will be distributed among farmers at a
rate of 5 kg/rai for planting in the next crop season. Each
farmer will return 10 kg of seed to the village to establish a
seed bank, from which seed will be distributed to others. To
improve storage facilities where these are inadequate, 1900
stores of 10 t capacity and 700 stores of 30 t capacity will be
built using village labor with materials to be provided free of
charge. Some $1.3 million will be spent during the project
period. The subprogram will need to be closely coordinated with
activities described in para. 3.18(g) to improve saline soils
in the Northeast.
(c) Upland Crop Improvement. This subprogram will be initiated in
1984 and is designed to promote upland crop production and the
use of improved varieties and better quality seed. Seeds of
improved varieties of maize, sorghum, peanut, mungbean and
kenaf, together with advice on better cropping practices and on
selection, drying and storage of seed for subsequent planting
will be made available to farmers. Training will be provided
first to provincial subject matter specialists, who will in turn
train extension workers. Advice on improved techniques will
concentrate mainly on low cost methods. Fertilizers and
pesticide usage will be minimal. Some 95,000 ha of crop area
are targetted for support and about $1.6 million would be spent
during the project period.
(d) Highland Rice Improvement. The objective of this subprogram
which began in 1982 is to identify and breed for higher yielding
rice varieties for highland areas farmed by cultural minorities,
and to promote the adoption of improved cropping practices among
the highland farmers. A program for collection and testing of
existing varieties of upland rice is being undertaken at ten
centers in Northern Thailand. Varieties having good character-
istics will be used in breeding programs to develop improved new
varieties. As improved varieties become available, the subpro-
ject would provide for seed multiplication and distribution to
farmers through an exchange system. Training will be provided
for staff of the departments of Agriculture, Extension, Land
Development and Public Welfare, and for farmers in improved
agronomic techniques applicable to upland rice production. Some
300 tons of improved seed would be produced and distributed to
farmers during the project. Total PAP costs during this period
would be about $0.7 million.



- 26 -
(e) Fruit and Other Productive Tree Plantings. This subprogram
would be initiated in 1984 and would promote the planting of
trees for food and cash incomes, such as coconuts, papayas,
bananas and bamboos. Nurseries will be establish at the district
level where the extension agent will organize production of
about 10,000 trees per year for distribution. Seedlings of
common fruit and other trees, and grafted stock of species of
particular value will be produced. Grafted stock will be
distributed to selected farmers who will be trained in
propagation techniques and will be required to provide double
the number of grafted stock for distribution to other farmers.
The subprogram would cost about $3.9 million.
(f) Livestock Health and Management Improvement. The subprogram
began in 1983 and is designed to improve the health and increase
the animal population in poverty areas. Selected villages in
poverty areas will receive visits twice yearly by the Livestock
Department staff to vaccinate and drench livestock using facil-
ities constructed on a self-help basis. Farmer training will be
provided on disease control, breed improvement, animal nutrition
and stock management, and selected farmers will be trained as
vaccinators on 2 day courses. Availability of artificial insemr
ination (AI) services will be extended by doubling the area
served by each AI center. Extension workers will receive
training in pasture improvement. Funds will be provided for
purchase of seed of improved pasture species for distribution to
selected farmers and to resow communal grazing areas. Some 7
million vaccinations are scheduled to be given during the Project
Period, and about 7,000 villagers would be trained in Livestock
Management at a cost of about $5.9 million.
(g) Saline Soil Improvement in the Northeast. Salinity is estimated
to affect nearly 6 million ha of soils in the Northeast (34% of
total). It causes yield reduction and in severe cases prevents
cropping. The subproject aims at maintaining or increasing
productivity in areas of low salinity, where it is practical to
ameliorate the problem and to reduce the spread of salinization.
Under the subprogram, several activities would be supported by:
(i) research and feasibility studies on ways to limit the spread
of salinization; (ii) identification and production of seed of
salt tolerant varieties of rice and other crops; (iii) develop-
ment of drainage and other technology suitable for adoption by
villagers to combat salinity; (iv) training for extension agents
and provision of specialist support; and (v) preparation of
legislation aimed at controlling practices which aggravate the
Epread of salinization. Some 500 ha would be improved during
trie pro-ect pcriod and abo'ut 2,000 villagers and extension
worker,; would be trained.  Cost associated with the subprogram
during the project would be about $1.5 million.



- 27 -
(h) Acid and Saline Soil Improvement in the South. Rice yields in
the South are generally very low as a result of soil acidity and
salinity. Improvement of the productivity of these soils by
drainage and leaching of salts, application of marl and by use
of better adapted rice varieties has been demonstrated in trials
by the Land Development Department. The subprogram would be
implemented along the lines indicated for improving saline soils
in the Northeast (g) above. Some 900 tons of seed and 90,000
tons of marl are targetted to be distributed to some 18,000
families during the project, at a cost of about $1.5 million.
(i) Soil Erosion Improvement in the North. In northern Thailand
particularly, population pressures are forcing minority groups
into more intensive land use and more permanent cultivation of
steeper slopes. This in turn is leading to increasing soil
erosion from traditional cultivation practices. The subproject
will introduce simple erosion control measures such as contour
planting, strip cropping and planting of trees and the construc-
tion of earth banks to control runoff. A large number of demon-
strations of the techniques are planned. The Land Development
Department will also produce and distribute to farmers about
800 tons of seed of plant species suitable for use in controll-
ing erosion. Training will be provided to the Land Development
Department staff, extension agents and Township Council repre-
sentatives who in turn will participate in promotion and advice
to farmers. The subprogram will be implemented in an area which
coincides with that of the Highland Rice Subprogram, (d) above,
and as far as possible the two subprograms should be linked.
The reduction of erosion over about one million ha is intended
and some 318,000 families are targetted to be included. Total
cost of the subprogram over the project would be about $6.7
million.
(j)   Soil Improvement through use of Crop Residues.  The objective of
the subprogram is to better utilize the large quantities of rice
straw and other residues which are presently burnt. The
subprogram would promote composting of residues, particularly
for production of vegetables and other high value crops on sandy
soils. Annual applications at the equivalent rate of 10 tons/ha
would be necessary to achieve useful improvements in soil
structure and fertility. As farmers become convinced of the
benefits, substantially higher rates may be adopted. The use of
green manure crops and of leguminous cover crops under fruit
trees would also be beneficial. The Land Development Department
will undertake the training of some 300 extension agents and
will provide specialist support. Groups of about 25 farmers
will be formed in each participating Township and will be
provided with compost starter-cultures and cover crop and green
manure seed. A typical group would produce 50 tons compost and



- 28 -
plant about 4 ha of green manure/cover crop. Some 375,000 tons
of compost, enough for about 37,000 ha of vegetable gardens
would be produced. Total costs of the subprogram during the
project period would be about $2.6 million.
Infrastructure Subprograms
3.19      Two subprograms will be undertaken by the Accelerated Rural Devel-
opment Department (ARD) of the Ministry of Interior (MOI) and would
comprise:
(a) Bridge Construction and Replacement. This is an ongoing
activity, but commencing in 1984, it would be incorporated in
the PAP. Funds would be available to provide all season access
to poverty areas through construction of new bridges and through
replacement of low level flood damaged and deteriorated timber
bridges which are costly to maintain. Most new construction would
be with concrete to accepted standard design. About 11,000 m of
bridges in poverty areas are targetted to be constructed or
replaced, at a cost of about $2,000/m span. These bridges, which
would carry traffic volumes of between 200 and 2000 vehicles/day,
are important communication links and the impact of bridge closure
due to defects is high. The selection of bridges for replacement
must pass the scrutiny of both the Township Council and of the
District Development Committee. The local ARD Representative is
responsible for preparing technical data to be used in submitt-
ing the project for review by the Provincial Development
Committee. Construction by contractors would be supervised by
ARD personnel. ARD would assume responsibility for subsequent
maintenance through normal ministerial budget processes.
Project costs associated with the component amount to about
$23.7 million.
(b) Provision of Village Water Resources. Extensive areas under the
Poverty Program have benefitted little from past water resource
development activities in Thailand. Depending on local
conditions, water supplies would be provided for domestic use,
livestock watering, irrigation of vegetable crops and for fish
ponds through deepening of existing natural ponds and basins or
by construction of small reservoirs holding about 10,000 cu m.
Sites will be surveyed and designs prepared by ARD staff of the
Field Operations Division, before construction is undertaken.
Equipment has already been provided to ARD under a Japanese
loan. Maintenance of the facilities will be the responsibility
of Township Committees with support from ARD where necessary.
Costs associated with this component amount to $24.4 million.



- 29 -
E. Implementation Schedule
3.20      The project will be implemented over a three-year period corres-
ponding to the Thai fiscal years 1984-1986 (i.e. October 1, 1983 through
September 30, 1986). Subprogram targets are given in Annex 2, and the
annual schedule for planning and budgeting is given in Annex 6.
F.  Project Cost
3.21      Total project costs are estimated at $157.2 million (inclusive of
taxes and duties of about $5.5 million) of which $31.5 million or 20%
represents foreign exchange requirements. Project costs are based on unit
prices in Thailand indexed to the first quarter of 1984. Because the project
supports a time-slice of an ongoing program involving large numbers of
small project activities, considerable flexibility exists for matching
available funds with the work program./l Therefore no allowance was made
for physical contingencies. Price contingencies /2 were included and amount
to about $20.9 million or 15% of base costs, assuming the following rates of
price increase:
Annual inflation rate (%)
1984      1985       1986
Local costs (M)           6.5        6.0        6.0
Foreign costs (%)         7.5        7.0        6.0
11 Under the program communities are encouraged to contribute labor free
of charge, either to make up for shortages of funds, or to enlarge the
budgeted subprogram works. Based on experiences in the first 2 years
of the program, it is estimated that villages may contribute up to 10%
of costs for labor intensive subprograms. This village participation
will be further encouraged during the project, both to promote
villager's sense of involvement and to save cost.
/2 The overall cost of the PAP program during the current 5-year plan period
(1982 to 86), was approved in principle by Cabinet at some $305 million
(ref. para. 2.15). This figure was computed at the beginning of the
plan period based on targets and unit costs presented by the implementing
ministries. However, no specific allowance was made for price increases
other than through community participation. Failure to fund price
increases would mean the program target would be trimmed. The political
acceptability of this will need to be balanced against the financial
implications of maintaining the program targets.



- 30 -
3.22      Project cost details are presented in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2 and
are summarized in Table 2 (page 31).
G. Financing
3.23      The financing plan (Table.3, page 32) provides for a Bank loan of
about $50 million including a capitalized front-end fee of $0.1 million. The
proposed cofinancing would be as follow: IBRD $50 million (32%); USAID $5.0
million (3%); JICA $2.1 million (1.3%); UNDP $0.5 million (0.3%) and
Government $99.7 million (63%); see Table 3. The proposed external financing,
totalling $57.6 million (or 38% of project cost excluding taxes and duties),
would cover the latter three years (October 1, 1984 to September 30, 1986) of
the current five-year plan period and would correspond to about 19% financing
of the total National Rural Development Program expenditures for the five-year
plan period 1982-86).
H. Procurement
3.24      Most of the procurement under the project would be undertaken by
District Officers in conjunction with procurement committees of Township
Councils. Because of the relatively small unit size, varied timing and
countrywide implementation of the various subprojects, competitive bidding
in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to the Bank would
be used for all goods and services under the project. Local construction
and civil works contractors, as well as local retail outlets stocking both
foreign and domestic goods for construction and agricultural production are
well distributed throughout Thailand and would have adequate capacity to
meet projected requirements. Estimates of procurement through these
sources, including average size of each purchase for the major items or
services, would be as follows: (i) civil works - new fish pond development
($8 million total; $28,000 average); water resource development ($10 million
total; $200,000 average) and bridge construction ($24 million total, $43,000
average); (ii) animal purchases ($6 million total; $30,000 average) and
agricultural inputs ($13 million total; $10,000 average).
3.25      Some goods would be procured at the national and provincial level
for distribution to poverty districts. Because of varied timing of subproject
implementation, the scope for bulk purchasing would be limited primarily to
purchases of livestock and construction materials. Even so, the size and
nature of such bulk purchases would be unattractive to foreign firms not
represented in Thailand.
I. Disbursements
3.26      The loan would be disbursed on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures. Since loan funds would be disbursed against program expendi-
tures which are budgeted on an annual basis and normally fully committed
each year, the Bank's disbursement profile would not be appropriate.



- 31 -
Table 2: ESTIMATED PROJECT COST /a
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total         % of      %
(B million) -----  ---- ($ million) ----  Base Cost  F.E.
Village-Based Schemes
Village fisheries                       251.6    55.4       307.0   10.9    2.4    13.4                  18
Village small livestock                  36.8      7.8       44.6    1.6    0.3       1.9                18
Village fisheries in the South           26.6      6.2       32.8    1.2    0.3       1.4                 19
Village water utilization                78.7    19.7        98.4    3.4    0.9       4.3                20
Village woodlots                         38.7      7.8       46.5    1.7    0.3       2.0                17
Village cattle-buffalo bank             115.2    28.8       144.0    5.0    1.3       6.3                20
Subtotal                              547.6   125.7      673.3   23.8    5.5    29.3         21        19
Farmer-Participation Schemes
Food production for nutrition            62.5    15.5        78.0    2.7    0.7       3.4                20
Highland rice production                 13.9      2.3       16.2    0.6    0.1       0.7                14
Soil improvement                         51.3      7.8      59.1    2.2    0.3        2.6                13
Saline soil improvement, Northeast    32.0         2.6       34.5    1.4    0.1       1.5                 7
Rainfed rice                            285.4    90.1       375.5   12.4    3.9       1.3                24
Livestock development                   109.3    27.5       136.8    4.8    1.2       5.9                20
Saline soil & acid soil, South           92.5    19.3       111.8    4.0    0.9      4.9                 17
Soil erosion prevention                 131.8    21.2       153.1    5.7    0.9      6.7                 14
Upland crop improvement                  28.9      8.3       37.2    1.3    0.4       1.6                22
Fruit tree development                   73.9    16.7        90.6    3.2    0.7       3.9                19
Subtotal                              881.5   211.3   1,092.8   38.3    9.2    47.5          35        19
Infrastructure Schemes
Timber bridge replacement               435.8   109.0      544.8   19.0    4.7    23.7                   20
Village water resource development   463.3    98.4          561.7   20.1    4.3    24.4                  18
Subtotal                              899.1   207.4   1,106.5   39.1    9.0    48.1          35        19
Monitoring and Evaluation
Technical assistance                     18.4    17.3        35.7    0.8    0.7       1.5                50
System operations                        98.9    34.5       133.4    4.3    1.5       5.8                26
Commodities and supplies                 11.5      4.6       16.1    0.5    0.2       0.7                29
Training                                 18.5      4.6       23.0    0.9    0.2       1.1                20
Special studies                           6.9      4.6       11.5    0.3    0.2      0.5                 40
Evaluation                                1.15    1.15        2.3    0.05   0.05    0.1                  50
O&M and Other                             4.6      4.6        9.2    0.2    0.2       0.4                50
Subtotal                              159.8    71.4      231.2    7.0    3.1    10.1          8        32
Special Studies
MOAC/MOI subprogram analysis              1.0      0.6        1.6    0.04   0.03    0.07                 38
Training needs assessment                 4.6      3.0        7.6    0.2    0.1       0.3                39
Sixth 5-year plan preparation            18.4      4.6      23.0    0.8    0.2        1.0                20
Subtotal                               24.0     8.2       32.2    1.1    0.3       1.4        1        21
Total Base Cost                     2,512.0   624.0   3,136.0  109.2   27.1   136.3         100        20
Price Contingency                       378.2   101.8       480.0   16.5    4.4    20.9        15        21
Total Project Cost                  2,890.2   725.8   3,616.0  125.7   31.5   157.2         115        20
/a Discrepancies due to rounding.



Table 3: FINANCING PLAN /a
Thai Gov't       JICA            UNDP            USAID          IBRD          Total
Project expenditure                $ million %   $ million  %  $ million  %   $ million %  $ million %  $ million %
MOAC - Village Based Schemes
19.1                   -                        -                10.2           29.30
Subtotal
MOAC - Farmer Participation Schemes
Subtotal                                31.0            -                       -                        16.5            47.50
MOI (ARD) - Infrastructure Schemes
Subtotal                                31.4            -                       -                        16.7            48.10
Monitoring and Evaluation
Technical Assistance                     0.2            -               -                1.3              -                1.5
System Operations                        2.6             2.1            -                1.1              -                5.8
Commodities and supplies                 0.1             -              -                0.6              -                0.7
Training                                 0.1             -              -                1.0              -                1.1
Special studies                          -              -                               0.5               -                0.5
Evaluation                                               -              -                0.1                               0.1
Other                                    _              _               _               0.4                                0.4
Subtotal                               3.0            2.1             -               5.0               -               10.1
Special Studies
MOAC/MOI subprogram analysis             -               -              0.07            -                 -               0.07
Training needs assessment                0.2             -              0.13            -                 -               0.33
6th 5-year plan preparation              0.7             -              0.3             -                 -               1.00
Subtotal                               0.9            -               0.5             -                 -               1.40
Contingencies                         14.4            -               -               _                 6.5             20.9
Total Cost of Project                 99.7             2.1            0.5             5.0              49.9            157.2
Front end fee on Bank loan             -              -               -               -                 0.1              0.1
Total Financing                       99.7   63        2.1   1.3      0.5   0.3       5.0   3          50.0   32       157.3
/a Discrepancies due to rounding.



- 33 -
Instead loan disbursements would be closely related to annual budget appro-
priations for the NRDP Poverty Areas Program. Project expenditures are
based on the last 3 years of the NRDP for the current 5-year plan (October
1, 1984 to September 30, 1986), and disbursements would be made at the level
of 50% of expenditures over about 2.5 years, i.e. between loan signing and
the end of the plan period.
3.27      In order to assist the project implementation and to alleviate the
Borrowers' internal budget constraints, a Special Account "Revolving Fund"
would be established from which eligible expenditures under the project could
be financed, and which would correspond to estimated expenditures during each
of the Borrowers' trimester budget periods (4 months). The Special Account
would be established as a condition of loan effectiveness, and an initial
disbursement of $5 million would be made from the Bank Loan Account to the
Special Account. The account would be replenished up to a maximum of $5 mil-
lion upon request of the Borrower, supported by Statements of Expenditure
satisfactory to the Bank. The account would be established in a commercial
account acceptable to the Bank as a condition of Loan effectiveness (para.
6.02). Loan closing would be June 30, 1988.
J. Accounts and Audit
3.28      The project would utilize normal Government accounting procedures
for all expenditures under the Poverty Areas Program. Current procedures of
the Budget Bureau are to code appropriations such that for each subprogram,
expenditures can be identified according to the implementing Ministry and
Department, the province where spent, and by up to 9 basic objects of expen-
diture, i.e., civil works, equipment, etc. Records (contracts, invoices,
authorizations, etc.) for all expenditures are kept by the Provincial
Treasurer and bi-monthly reports of expenditure are submitted to the
Comptroller General's Department. Records of expenditures are also maintained
by implementing agencies, both at the provincial and national level. The full
documentation, however, is maintained by the Provincial Treasurer. The 9
regional offices of the Auditor General's Department routinely audit the
accounts of the Provincial Treasurer, and also conduct performance audits from
time to time on various subprograms. An assurance was obtained that
Government would annually audit project accounts and the operations of the
Special Account and submit such audit reports to the Bank not later than 6
months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 6.01(a)).



- 34 -
IV. PROGRAM ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization of the National Program
Organizational Framework
4.01      At the center of the revised Rural Development Program are an
organizational framework and a set of procedures which would be workable in
the short-run, but which would be able to accommodate any subsequent
Government's initiatives over the longer-term. A principal element has been
the establishment by cabinet of the National Rural Development Coordinating
Committee (NRDC), chaired by the Prime Minister and comprised of Ministers
of Agriculture, Education, Health and Interior as members. This high
cabinet-level Committee, together with ex-officio Government department
heads e.g. of the Bureau of the Budget, Civil Service Commission and of the
National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB), set policy and
allocates budget committed by Cabinet for National Rural Development. The
NRDC has as its secretariat a permanent staff, headed by a senior officer of
the Government's central planning unit, i.e. the National Economic and Social
Development Board (NESDB). This secretariat within NESDB is known as the
National Rural Development Coordination Center (NRDCC). The NRDC and its
Secretariat provide a workable arrangement by combining the highest levels of
political commitment with the responsibility and the means to direct the
National Rural Development effort.
4.02      A chart of the revised framework for rural development is
presented in Annex 5. At the national level, the National Rural Development
Committee (NRDC) reports to the Cabinet and is chaired by the Prime
Minister. The Secretariat (NRDCC) serving the NRDC, is supported by some 8
subcommittees covering key administrative and technical aspects of the
program. Implementation of programs is budgeted and administered through
the technical ministries and departments concerned. At the provincial
level, the Governor chairs a Provincial Development Committee comprising
representatives of technical ministries and provincial and local
administration officials. The committee and the provincial subcommittee for
Rural Development provide general direction for implementing projects and
administer the release of funds. At the local level, direct supervision of
work and responsibility for coordination with technical ministry staff rests
with a District Development Committee, Chaired by the District Officer.
This committee works through township councils of locally elected village
representatives.



- 35 -
Organizational Structure
4.03      The following describes the committees responsible for implemen-
ting various aspects of the National Program and further details, including
specifics of the Regulations governing Rural Development are available in
the Project File.
(a)  The National Rural Development Committee (NRDC) has 17 members
and is chaired by the Prime Minister. It includes, among others, the
Ministers of Interior, Agriculture, Education and Health as vice-chairmen,
Undersecretaries of principal concerned ministries, and chiefs of the Armed
Forces, Budget Bureau, Civil Service and NESDB. Its function is to formulate
rural development policy, identify target areas for special programs,
coordinate policy implementation, fix guidelines for review and evaluation
and to supervise the formulation of provincial economic and social plans.
The NRDC is assisted by 8 subcommittees covering (i) monitoring and
evaluation; (ii) planning and programming; (iii) manpower development; (iv)
coordination of national and provincial plans; (v) provincial planning; (vi)
training; (vii) land use; and (viii) water resource development. Members of
the subcommittees are drawn from, Government, Universities and
quasi-government organizations and are chosen on the basis of their
recognized expertise and influence.
(b) The National Rural Development Coordinating Center (NRDCC) acts
as a secretariat to the NRDC. It has a permanent staff of about 23, and is
headed by a senior officer of NESDB. The Secretariat acts on behalf of the
NRDC in translating policy into implementation guidelines and for providing
feedback to the NRDC on the progress under the Program.
(c) The Provincial Development Committee has been in existence for
some years now. It has the Governor as chairman, the Chairman of the
Changwat (Provincial) Administration Organization, the mayors (or chairmen),
of municipalities and sanitary districts, and a number of representatives of
technical ministries and agencies operating in the province. Its function
is to formulate the provincial economic and social development plan, agree
on the province's annual budget, oversee its implementation, and follow up
and evaluate the operation of the plan. It is supported by the Provincial
Rural Development Subcommittee, a more restricted group, headed by the
Governor, with the Vice-Governor as Vice-chairman, and comprising technical
officers (not more than two for each of the Ministries of Interior,
Agriculture, Health and Education) and a limited number of others appointed
by the Governor. It's more technical role is to review rural development
projects submitted by the District Development Committees, to prepare rural
development components of the provincial plan and to supervise and
coordinate follow-up. To coordinate sub-programs within ministries at the
provincial level, each of the four ministries involved in rural development,
i.e., Interior, Agriculture, Health and Education, have been required to
appoint a ministerial coordinator. The Ministry of Interior appointed the



- 36 -
Deputy Provincial Governor as its representive, the Ministries of Health and
Education made their designations on the basis of relative rank of the
departmental officials in the province. The Ministry of Agriculture, whose
departmental representatives at provincial level hold similar ranks,
selected its designee by election. These coordinators are to be the initial
point of contact for each Ministry (vertically and horizontally) and they
are responsible for consolidating, reviewing and forwarding to the central
Ministry the several departmental components of the provincial plans. At
this stage they are not expected to take on supervisory or directive
authority (ref. para. 5.24).
(d) The District Development Committee has been an element of the
local structure for some time. It is chaired by the District Chief Officer
and includes district technical officers from the four technical ministries.
It is responsible for analyzing and coordinating rural development projects
submitted by the Township Council and for formulating a development program
for the district to be submitted to the Provincial Development Sub-committee.
It also assists in coordinating development activities. In addition, in
districts selected for inclusion in the poverty program, the committee is
responsible for determining the target villages. Over the longer-term, it
seems that District Office w-ill play an increasingly larger role in planning
and directing rural development, as it is the most localized level of
Government at which ministries can interact formally. USAID support for
strengthening the Rural Employment Generation Program (REGP) is focussing on
the district level. This strengthening process should be monitored and
encouraged under the proposed project as part of the strategy for improving
the prioritization of development efforts and for increasing the level of
local determination.
(e)  The Township (Tambon) Council is the local administrative
structure. Members are elected to the Council for 3 years from the villages
making up the township. The council reviews the needs and problems iden-
tified by village committees and other community groups and formulates
development project proposals for submission to the District Development
Council. The council is required also to establish a Rural Development
Operation Support Working Group comprising the Township head, the township
agricultural extension agent, health worker, community development worker,
and teacher, and a secretary. This group is intended to provide some
technical input to the township proposals. Clearly the technical and plan-
ning capabilities of township councils are at a rudimentary level at
this stage. Nevertheless, township councils give considerable thought to
sub-programs to be implemented in their locality and watch closely over the
use of funds. The skills of township councils can be expected to grow
largely through experience, but the project would identify training needs
and support the training process.



- 37 -
B. Implementation of the Poverty Areas Program
4.04      The project would be implemented through the established
organizational framework of the National Rural Development Program described
above.  The National Rural Development Coordinating Center (NRDCC),
institutionally located within NESDB, would coordinate the project in its
capacity as Secretariat for the National Rural Development Committee
(NRDC). The Ministries and their individual departments would be
responsible, together with provincial staff, for the day to day
implementation of the subprograms. The following paragraphs expand on the
earlier organizational description and outline the procedures through which:
(a) plans are formulated; (b) budget is allocated and utilized; and (c)
information is fed through the system for management and program evaluation
purposes.
The Planning-Budgeting Process
4.05      The planning process has been designed with the aim of creating
a "bottom-up" planning system for small rural development projects.  Because
system development is in its early stages, and local capacities are limited,
local choices are currently restricted within the limited (but growing)
number of nationally approved subprograms included within the Poverty Areas
Program. The annual planning and budgeting appropriation cycle is
illustrated in Annex 6. Further details of the budget process are given in
the Project File.
4.06      Township Level.  The Township council reviews suggestions put
forward by the individual village development committees. Those accepted
are put forward to the District Development Committee and priorities are
indicated. Project descriptions contain the following information: (a) name
of the project; (b) duration of the project (based on per annum calculations);
(c) objectives of the project (should be consistent with objectives of the
township five-year plan); (d) area project will serve; (e) methods of project
implementation; (f) goals to be realized; (g) benefits to be realized; (h)
project costs; and (i) agency responsible for project operations. An
important improvement under the NRDP, is that Township Councils have the
ultimate authority in deciding which which subprograms are put forward for
funding consideration, the location for implementing the project within the
designated Poverty District, and the local participants. Although
suggestions for additions or deletions from the list of subprograms selected
can be made by the district or other offices, the authority must first be
obtained from the Township Council for such modifications to the list of
subprograms for possible funding. For planning purposes, Township Councils
base their annual submissions on the previous year's agreed budget. The
size of each subprogram and the amount of funds available for it are based
on unit costs, but Township Councils, with the help of technical support
from the Township and District Development Committees, have the flexibility
to modify the project size, e.g., through the contribution of the free
labor.



- 38 -
4.07      District Level.  The District Development Committee (DDC)
assembles the township proposals, and comments on their suitability before
forwarding them to the Provincial Development Committee. Although the DDC
does not formulate projects, it can indicate general priorities and
capacities within the district and can recommend additional projects to the
Provincial Development Committee, after first obtaining the agreement of
the Township Council.
4.08      Provincial Level.  The task of reviewing and coordinating the
district proposals is carried out by the Provincial Development Subcommittee.
Annual provincial plans are then drawn up and approved by the Provincial
Development committee. Such plans should be in conformity with the five-year
plan of the Province. In order to prepare realistic plans, it is important
that budget ceilings for each ministry's PAP activities be established
before provinces submit annual plans to the national level. In the first
year of the PAP program (1982), little guidance was given to provinces on
likely funding and difficulties were encountered in determining the size of
the program they should propose to undertake. In the 1982-83 planning
cycle, local officials operated on the basis that funds available in FY84
would be similar to those allocated in FY83. This did improve the planning
process but the project would seek to continue this improvement. The
recent appointment of ministerial coordinators should facilitate the
planning process by providing a focus for communication between the province
and the central ministries.
4.09      National Level.  Once provincial plans are forwarded to the NRDCC
they are reviewed for consistency and adherence to PAP guidelines. Tne
plans are then forwarded to the ministries and departments for comment and
for inclusion in departmental budget requests. In the past, ministerial
level input to the planning and budgetary process has been minimal, as
budget analysts in the Bureau of the Budget (BOB) have dealt directly with
the departments. Beginning with the FY83 budget, however, serious efforts
have been made to give the Ministries a stronger hand in influencing
departmental programs, budgets, plans and operations. The principal
elements of the program budgeting approach are to ensure that policy advice
and guidance are set and ceilings determined, before Departments prepare
project and work plan estimates. Committees on policy and planning have
been formed in each of the implementing ministries and have brought together
budget, planning, ministry and departmental leadership in establishing
sectoral policy and planning. These ministerial committees then coordinate
the review of provincial plans; and (a) produce funding proposals for
individual subprojects in PAP and other special programs; and (b)
consolidate and forward departmental budget requests. In the event that a
disagreement arises between the province and the line agency concerned over
elimination of a particular sub-program, a provision exists for the
province to petition the NRDC directly to seek additional funding. This new
program budgeting procedure is an important change and its implementatiori is
critical for the success of the National Rural Development Program over the
longer term. Consultants funded by USAID have provided technical assistance
to help develop and implement the new procedures.



- 39 -
Subprogram Implementation
4.10      Once the overall budget allocations are approved by Cabinet, the
NRDC approves provincial allocations. Based on the approved provincial
allocations for individual subprograms, the Provincial Development Committee
informs District staff who in turn inform the Township Council of the
approved subprograms for implementation. The Township Council, in con-
sultation with the District and Township Development Committees make the
final determination on the location of subprogram works and on the village
groups or individual participants and work can begin immediately.
4.11      For most subprograms the ultimate lead in implementation is taken
by the line agency. However, most projects require support and inputs both
from the local community, and from local technical staff of the ministries,
i.e. the Township Development Committee. Local coordination is essential to
maximize the probability of success and responsibility for this rests with
the Township Council.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01      This is expected to be the first phase of Bank support for the
National Rural Development Program and in analyzing the financial, social
and economic impact, it must be borne in mind that the primary objective
is to tackle rural poverty through better targeting and more cost effective
use of resources. Given the resource poor nature of rainfed areas in which,
ipso-facto the rural poor are most concentrated, it must be expected that
most production packages will give only marginal returns. Risks associated
with crop intensification in resource poor areas need to be buffered by an
increase in off-farm employment. Therefore, although investments would be
channeled as far as possible into productive activities, some aspects of the
program should be seen as a "holding operation" through which basic needs
are provided and productive employment generated to reduce the growing
migration to urban areas, i.e. until such time as growth in employment
outside of agriculture, begins to narrow the gap between labor availability
and employment opportunities.
A. Benefits
5.02      The projected benefits from the project would come from:
(a) a strengthened national management system for rural development.
The impact of this new system, measurable in terms of growth and
equity improvements in rural areas, will lead to substantial



- 40 -
savings both by increasing the complementarity of development
programs through better coordination, and by improving cost-
effectiveness through better targeting of programs, less leakage
of funds to nonprograms activities, and through increased
management efficiency;
(b) increased agricultural production leading to improved food and
nutritional status in poor rural areas. Production increases
would be achieved through improvements in agricultural practices
and inputs, and through projects to increase livestock and
fisheries production. The major output would be paddy, the
staple food in Thailand and the major subsistence crop in poor
areas. Other important products, particularly for nutritional
purposes, would be beans, sesame, fruit, upland crops such as
maize, animal products, poultry and fish. Over the longer term,
incremental production would come through increased cropping
intensity and through introduction of higher value crops in areas
where potential exists. This would be supported by measures to
reduce the spread of salinity and soil erosion and to overcome
soil acidity problems by application of marl and through the
production and use of compost, primarily on vegetable plots.
Fish production would be enhanced by rehabilitation and new
construction of community ponds and through improved culture
techniques for sea bass and cockle raising. Greater livestock
productivity and a larger animal population would result from
improved disease control, extension of AI and through subprograms
to promote and to disburse livestock for backyard production.
The value of major annual incremental production at full
development in 1995 economic farmgate prices would total about
US$80 million;
(c)  generation of employment, in the order of 160,000 manyears
annually, leading directly to inicreased incomes and reduced
underemployment and indirectly to stimulation of the rural
economy and less seasonal migration. While employment would be
generated directly in on-farm activities and in public works,
increased agricultural production and rural income would result
in greater nonfarm economic activity, and thus further growth in
employment in rural areas;
(d) improved access to poor areas through the construction and
rehabilitation of bridges, further stimulating local economic
growth and facilitating the provision of improved medical,
educational and social services. The latter services, although
not directly funded by this first phase Bank project, are integral
parts of the Program and would be run in conjunction with the
Bank-supported project.



- 41 -
In the following section, the benefits of the project are analyzed with a
view to demonstrating the financial and economic viability of subprograms
particularly from the point of view of subsistence level farmers, and to
evaluate the overall impact of the project on poverty alleviation.
Improved National Resource Management
5.03      A major benefit of the project would be the strengthening of the newq
national management system which is designed to expand the pace of rural
development countrywide, and to improve the effectiveness of Government
resource use.  The impact of this new system, measurable in terms of growth
and equity improvements in rural areas, will also lead to substantial savings
both by increasing the complementarity of development programs through better
coordination, and by improving cost-effectiveness through better targeting
of programs, less leakage of funds to non-program activities, and through
increased management efficiency. Although it is difficult to quantify levels
of cost savings, the fact that Thai Administrations have annually appropriated
excesses of $130 million for special rural development programs, without any
effective means to evaluate the impact of the programs, gives an indication
of the magnitude of potential cost savings that even a 10% improvement in
efficiency would yield.
Incremental Production
5.04        Agricultural production increases expected under the project would
be achieved through improvements in agricultural practices and inputs, and
through projects to increase livestock and fisheries production. In most of
production oriented programs, particularly farmer participation programs,
there are very little civil works involved; and the project would provide
training and technology packages aimed at quick yield improvement. The major
output would be paddy, the staple food in Thailand and the major subsistence
crop in poor areas. Other important products, particularly for nutritional
purposes, would be beans, sesame, fruit, upland crops such as maize, animal
products, poultry and fish. Over the longer term, incremental production
would come through increased cropping intensity and through introduction of
higher value crops in areas where potential exists. This would be supported
by measures to reduce the spread of salinity and soil erosion and to overcome
acid problems by applications of marl and through the production and use of
compost, primarily on vegetable plots.  Fish production would be enhanced by
rehabilitation and new construction of community ponds and through improved
culture techniques for sea bass and cockl raising. Greater livestock
productivity and a larger animal population would result from improved disease
control, extension of Al and through subprograms promote backyard production.
Annual incremental production for major commodities when project supported
activities would have reached full development, after about five years, is
shown in Table 3. The value of major annual incremental production at full
development in 1995 economic farmgate prices would total about US$80 million.



- 42 -
Impact on Food Supply and Incomes
5.05      As stated in para. 5.01, the fact that the project focuses exclu-
sively on resource poor areas, both ecologically and in human welfare terms,
means that the incremental production benefits from individual activities are
for the most part financially marginal. Nevertheless, the viability of sub-
programs and their acceptance by farmers have been established through pilot
project, technical assistance and other development activities in resource
poor rainfed areas. Subprojects are primarily designed to increase farm
output, while only marginally increasing financial costs. Also, because of
the high level of government subsidy in establishing subprojects during the
initial years, the risks for villages in adopting subprojects is low, and the
potential benefits are significant in terms of the subsistence economy in the
Table 3: ANNUAL INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION AND VALUE OF MAJOR
COMMODITIES AT FULL DEVELOPMENT /a
Production                   Value /b
('000 tons)               (B million7
Paddy                       108.5                        694.4
Maize                        77.2                        296.2
Beans                        0.9                          13.8
Mungbeans                    15.7                        146.8
Sesame                       0.6                          11.0
Fish                          4.6                         92.6
Sea bass & cockle            480                          41.6
Trees                        13.8 (million trees)          7.3
Fruits                     173.3                         478.4
/a  For most commodities, full development under the conditions of
each subproject, would be achieved 1 to 5 years after initiat-
ing the subproject in a given area.
lb  At 1995 border prices.



- 43 -
program areas. Farm production models for each of the subprojects are given
in the Project File and are summarized in Annex 7. These models detail
input-output price relationships at full development. The interpretation of
the models, however, must take into consideration the fact that: (i) a
substantial part of the production would be consumed on-farm and (ii) material
input costs associated with the incremental production are subsidized in the
range of 60 to 70% during the first year for each such program. Also,
underemployment is widespread and incremental farm labor would not involve
cash outlay in most cases.
5.06      A total of 23 production models were analyzed, representing 14
different subprogram activities. Six models include paddy as this is a
major crop in the poverty areas. From an analysis of the models, summarized
in Annex 7, it is apparent that incremental gross margins per family, which
represents returns to farm labor and management, range from B 9,000 to B 90,
when inputs and outputs are monetized (excluding family labor). Attractive
returns are for sea bass production (B 6,200/family), cockle production (B
263/family) village water resource utilization (632/family) and from fruit
tree development (B 1,800-9,000/family). However, this apparent attract-
iveness must be balanced against the fact that in most poverty areas, the
above packages of technology would represent new technology and would
therefore be expected to have a relatively slow rate of adoption and more
variable success level. The paddy based models show incremental gross
margins, ranging from 230 for highland rice production schemes to
1,495/family for saline soil improvement. Since paddy is widely grown and
is the staple diet, the production increases would offer low risk and
attractive returns for subsistence farmers in terms of increased food.
5.07      The attractiveness and returns to farmers and community programs
would, however, be enhanced by the self-help component of subprograms, and by
the assistance given by Government in the first year of a project to encour-
age farmer or community adoption. As described in para. 3.17 through 3.18,
important provisions have been included in each of the subprograms to reduce
the risk to farmers in adopting the various technology packages, and at the
same time to help perpetuate projects after the start-up support from the
Poverty Areas Program.
5.08      The project, therefore, should provide the means for substantial
gains to be made in fulfilling basic food needs and improving incomes, both
through direct production gains and indirectly from the impact of infra-
structural and social improvements on the levels of economic activity in
impoverished areas. Project beneficiaries currently have average incomes
below the absolute rural poverty level of $165 per capita. At least one
third of the rural population is believed to be below the absolute poverty
level. Because the poverty area program has been focussed exclusively on



- 44 -
districts determined to be among the poorest in the country it represents a
significant initiative in reducing income disparities at the National level.
Within poverty areas themselves, the project would attempt to narrow the gap
between different income classes, particularly through the development of
communal production activities which would impact on the poorest of the
community, a group difficult to help through most forms of assistance.
Nutritional Benefits
5.09      As previously stated (para. 5.05), significant amounts of the
incremental production would be consumed on-farm. Food would also be
distributed from community production schemes to preschool children,
pregnant and lactating women. Given that a 1982 study supported by the Bank
in impoverished areas found that 60% of farm households did not produce
enough rice for their own needs, the project could be expected to have a
significant impact on both the quantity and quality of food available in the
poverty areas. In quantitative terms, the project would increase the annual
production of paddy in poverty areas by some 5 to 6 kg/capita for the 20 mil-
lion people living in the designated poverty areas. The impact would be
further strengthened through the health and education subprograms being run
in conjunction with the production-oriented subprograms in the poverty areas.
Social Impact and Role of Women
5.10      A basic feature of the Poverty Areas Program is the focus on local
level participation in the selection and implementation of subprograms.
Subprograms designed for community participation would help foster the
spirit of government interest and community responsibility in local
development at the Amphur (district) Tambon (township) and Muban (hamlet)
level. In Thailand, women play an active role in various groups within the
township and village framework. In particular, groups dealing with nutri-
tional improvement, primary health care, drinking water and sanitation are
primarily organized by women. The NRDP would depend very heavily on such
groups, and considerable training is provided in the various subprograms to
strengthen their role. Subprograms would also directly benefit the poorest
of villages through the local hiring of labor and through the access of all
community members to community products and facilities. A review of social
factors impinging on the capacity of villagers to work with government
officials and to participate in the new rural development program was
conducted during project preparation and is available in the Project File.
The review concludes that procedures to be followed do provide the means and
the incentive for village councils to actively participate to a far greater
extent than in the earlier programs. However, this spirit of cooperation
and participation will be an important criteria to be monitored and
maintained for the program to remain effective.



- 45 -
5.11      To the extent it is successful, the project should eventually lead
to considerable social change, particularly in the more isolated areas which
have received little sustained assistance from Government programs in the
past. Not all social changes will be desirable and special studies to be
included under the project would be used to identify such changes and to
make recommendations to the NRDP as appropriate.
Impact on the Environment
5.12      The NRDP provides the mechanism for gradual, but continuing
improvements in the management of the environment, particularly in the most
resource poor areas of Thailand. Improved cultivation techniques would, for
example, lead to more effective use of organic wastes to improve fertility.
Efforts would be made to reduce the spread of salinity and land would be
made more arable through use of lime. Water resources would be better
managed and made more productive and trees would be grown for firewood.
Health and sanitation subprograms would greatly reduce the incidence of
disease and together with more extensive training and basic education, would
pave the way for greater participation by local inhabitants in improving
their own environment.
B. Justification
Economic Rate of Return
5.13      Since a primary objective of the project would be to improve the
standard of living and general well-being of the large section of the
population entrapped in resource-poor rural areas through provision of basic
needs, a number of the benefits tend to be more qualitative in nature. Four
such subprogram components would include subprograms of food production for
nutrition, livestock health improvement, soil erosion prevention and village
water quality and use improvement. However, the project investment would be
justified in terms of the resulting incremental production from the other 14
subprograms. An economic rate of return of 12.4% for these subprograms was
obtained. This represents 68% of the Bank financed project components, or
54% of total project costs. The ERRs for individual subprograms range from
10% to 17% with ERRs for 4 of the subprograms being between 10% and 12%.
Within subprograms, considerable variability in rates of return can be
expected depending on the levels of local skills and resources. The overall
ERR of 12.4% represents the weighted average. Although this ERR is low, it
must be considered as satisfactory for an investment in resource poor areas
where there are very limited alternative investment opportunities, and where
growing unemployment and poverty can be expected to create ever more serious
social problems and migration to already overcrowded urban areas.



- 46 -
Sensitivity Analysis
5.14      The sensitivity of the investment has been tested in terms of
crossover values, which makes net present value zero at a discount rate of
12%, i.e., the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Thailand. This is a
measure of the extent to which crucial variables can differ from the most
likely value before the project becomes economically unacceptable. In
calculating switching values, the key variables selected for this purpose were
levels of benefit, investment and operating costs (excluding labor cost).
Results of the sensitivity tests are given in Table 4, page 47, and indicate
that levels of benefits are generally more sensitive than levels of investment
and operating cost. The most sensitive benefits relate to the village small
livestock subprogram and the village water utilization subprogram, which
require less than 1% reduction in benefits before rates of return become 12%.
The timber bridge replacement subprogram, on the other hand, has the largest
margin and would require about a 17% benefit reduction to give a 12% rate of
return. The switching values for investment and operating costs in percentage
terms are higher ranging from 0.7% to 21% (ref. footnote to Table 4). The
four subprograms which had rates of return below 12%, would need to increase
incremental production by up to 25% to attain 12% rates of return.
C. Fiscal Impact
5.15      The fiscal impact of the project, or more importantly of the
National Rural Development Program, will depend largely on the degree to
which Government can bring about a greater degree of budgetary control
through the prioritization of projects in accordance with National Plan
objectives. A crucial factor will be the effective implementation of a new
program budgeting system which is due to come into operation for the Thai
FY84 onwards (see details on budgetary procedures in para. 4.05 and in the
project file).
5.16      The $234 million to be appropriated for the poverty areas program
over the next three years (i.e., during the project period and to the end of
the 5-year plan period) would amount to less than 10% of the combined
budgets of the two responsible ministries (i.e., for MOAC and MOI (ARD),
assuming an 8% annual growth in ministerial budgets). In the first phase of
the PAP, therefore, it should be possible to minimize any additional budget
requirements through relatively minor restructuring and rescheduling of
other ministerial activities deemed to be of lower priority.
5.17      However, associated with the poverty areas program will be an
increasing recurrent cost. While subprograms have been designed to minimize
such costs, they will increase, and for the project-supported PAP components
in the Ministries of Agriculture and Interior (ARD) will reach an estimated



- 47 -
Table 4: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Investment &
Production               operating cost
Switch-/b                  Switch-
Appr./a ing   -           Appr.    ing       x
value  value  change      value   value   change
--------------- (million baht)  ------
Village Based Schemes
Village fisheries                398.5    355.2  -10.9    313.1    356.4    13.8
Village small livestock          320.9    319.9   -0.3    144.0    145.0        0.7
Village fisheries in the
south                          102.7    101.8   -0.9      96.0      96.9      1.0
Village water utilization        806.6    820.5    1.7    594.4    580.5    -2.3
Village woodlots               4,345.8  4,573.2    5.2       61.7    165.7  -168.5
Village cattle buffalo bank    150.5    157.0    4.3    141.8    135.3    -4.3
Farmer Participation
Schemes
Highland rice production          88.0     81.2   -7.6      54.7      61.4    12.3
Soil improvement                 300.0    295.4   -1.5    112.9    117.5       4.1
Saline soil improvement,         378.0    358.9   -5.0    127.2    146.3    15.0
northeast
Rainfed rice                   2,168.5  2,078.4   -4.2    998.9  1,089.0        9.0
Saline soil and acid soil,
south                          205.3    220.9    7.6    148.2    132.6   -10.5
Upland crop improvement        1,439.2  1,376.0   -4.4    820.1    883.3        7.7
Fruit tree development         1,014.1    937.0   -7.6      65.4    142.5   117.8
Timber bridge replacement        467.4    385.9  -17.4    385.9    467.4    21L.1
/a  Appraisal value represents the best estimates used in the cost-benefit
analysis.
/b  Switching value represents the value at which the rate of return would reach
12%; the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Thailand.



- 48 -
$6.5 million by the third year of the project, or 10% of the corresponding
PAP funds spent in that year. The capacity of government to meet these
costs and its impact on other government financed activities needs to be
carefully assessed, and would be studied under the project (ref. para.
5.22).
5.18      There would be little government revenue generated by the poverty
areas program in the short term since all subprograms are directed at
assisting poor areas. The various cost recovery schemes (see paras. 3.17
and 3.18) which are important components of subprograms, are all designed to
help communities sustain activities, rather than to generate revenues for
Government. This is appropriate for these poverty areas and in the short
term the only practical form of cost recovery. Over the longer term, the
NRDP would lead to greater economic activity in rural areas and thereby
expand the tax base.
D. Risks
5.19      The National Rural Development Program represents a very ambitious
undertaking for Government. The policies, objectives and procedures have
been negotiated over a period of some three years among ministries and at
all levels of Government, and are now embodied in legislation and established
procedures. The program was largely developed by Thai authorities with the
Bank's assistance in funding studies to develop criteria for selecting
poverty areas and for developing subprogram investment packages. There was
also considerable interchange of the Bank's experiences from other
nationally managed programs, and Thai authorities visited some of those other
programs. The design, therefore, is sensitive to the special characteristics
of the Thai bureaucracy and culture. Clearly, however, there is a wide
range of procedural improvements which could be made. The Bank's support
for the program in this early phase is predicated on the view that further
development of the program can best be achieved by learning through
implementation.
5.20      A primary requirement for the success of the program will be
continued high-level political commitment. This commitment must continue to
be actively expressed in a way that maintains the program's focus and
encourages similar commitment at all levels of government and in the
rural areas. The Bank, by supporting the program, would help to focus on
ways to continually improve the impact of the program. An assurance was
obtained that the Borrower would maintain the National Rural Development
Program as its principal mechanism for developing rural areas, and would
submit to the Bank any proposed policy, procedural or new subprogram change
which would alter the objective, scope and costs of the Poverty Areas
Program (para. 6.01(b)).



- 49 -
5.21      An important aspect will be the capacity of the program to detect
weaknesses within itself and for corrective actions to be taken in a timely
manner. Under the project, some $11 million or 7% of project cost will
support the strengthening of an M&E system. However, the effectiveness with
which the system operates and the output utilized will greatly influence the
impact of the program. An assurance was obtained that the Borrower
would establish and maintain a monitoring and evaluation system with the
capacity to provide the NRDC with timely information on the implementation
and impact of the Poverty Areas Program (para. 6.01(c)). The M&E system
would be integrated with the BOB M&E system which is to be set up as part of
the Second Structural Adjustment Loan to Thailand.
5.22      Another concern relates to the capacity of MOAC and MOI (ARD) to
implement the project. Similar concerns exist for the ministries of Public
Health (MOPH) and Education (MOE), which are implementing complementary
activities of the Poverty Areas Program (PAP). These ministries have
received substantial technical assistance over the past 5 years, both from
the Bank and from other multilateral and bilateral sources, but a number of
administrative and technical weaknesses persist. Moreover, there is a risk
that the capacity of these ministries will be further constrained as depart-
ments attempt to give priority to the PAP, in accordance with Government
policy, while at the same time resisting any cut back in their other
activities. To minimize this, rapid introduction of program - budgeting
will be crucial to ensure greater prioritization of programs and budgets, in
accordance with National objectives - rather than leaving the choice of
activities to departments, as in the past (ref. para. 4.09). Introduction
of the Program Budgeting system for FY84 was included as a requirement of
the Second Structural Adjustment Loan to Thailand (Loan 2256-TH). A central
objective of a recently appraised Bank project for MOAC would be to
strengthen the ministry's capacity to analyze and prioritize budget requests
in accordance with the program-budgeting system. Also, under the current
project, introduction of the program-budgeting system and a review of
recurrent costs associated with the PAP, would focus attention on resources
needed to implement the PAP, and or the level of cutbacks needed in other
projects. At negotiations and assurance was obtained that the Borrower
would cause the Bureau of the Budget to study the recurrent cost requirements
of the PAP and would provide the Bank with details as to how appropriate
budget provisions would be made for this by June 30, 1985 in order to
provide sufficient recurrent budget for operation, maintenance and training
(para. 6.01(d)).
5.23      Among the risks that will affect implementation of somewhat smaller
elements of the program, the most important relate to the soundness of the
technological packages being promoted and to the capacity of various
ministries to provide adequate support services. For agricultural sub-
programs, it is the technology package itself that is of greatest concern,
whereas for the infrastructure and health subprograms (the latter not
included in the Bank project), it is the capacity of supporting services
which is the more seriously lacking. While the guidelines used in preparing



- 50 -
agricultural subprograms are sound, and the technology itself suitable,
improvements are needed to make the packages more attractive to farmers by
reducing the risk element and by improving the means by which the technology
can be sustained after the initial help through the program. Consultant
studies are included early in the project to assist in refining the agricul-
tural subprograms, but continued efforts will be needed by the responsible
departments of MOAC to refine subprograms and to focus on further adapting
subprograms to different ecological climes. An assurance was obtained that
MOAC and MOI sub-committees for Rural Development would review their
respective agricultural and ARD Poverty Area sub-programs, and by June 30,
1985, make recommendations on (i) ways of improving the practicability,
cost-effectiveness, and (ii) the means to sustain sub-program benefits
(para. 6.01(e)).
5.24      Supervision of the project would largely focus on the effective-
ness with which the policies and guidelines of the National program are
being implemented. Particular attention needs to be given to the timeliness
and adequacy of the planning and budgetary processes. In this respect it
will be important to guide the development of the monitoring and evaluation
system such that it not only looks at the overall achievements of the
program, but at the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the program's
procedures. The role of the ministerial coordinators at provincial level
will need to be evaluated and further strengthening of their authority and
responsibilities may be necessary. Special studies will probably be needed
to evaluate the impact of a program on the lives of individuals and on the
social structure and distribution of benefits within communities. Clearly
it will only be possible to supervise small samples of subprogram activities
at each supervision, and the findings of field visits should be reported
primarily to the respective ministerial subcommittee for rural development.
Emphasis should be given to reinforcing the capability, responsibility and
authority of ministries to supervise their own subprogram activities. The
NRDCC would be the focal point for the Bank's supervision, and in order to
promote a balanced perspective of the program, as well as coordination
between cofinanced components of this and subsequent phases of the program,
an assurance was obtained that NRDCC would annually host an implemented
review meeting for the project, to which all cofinanciers and concerned
government agencies would be invited and appraised of the progress in
implementing the NRDP and on the impact of the program (para. 6.01(f)).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      At negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)  the borrower would annually audit project accounts and the
operations of the Special Account and submit such audit
reports to the Bank not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.28);



- 51 -
(b) the Borrower would maintain the National Rural Development
Program as its principal mechanism for developing rural areas
and would submit details to the Bank any proposed policy,
procedural or new subprogram change which would alter the
objectives, scope and cost of the Poverty Areas Program
(para. 5.20);
(c) the Borrower would establish and maintain a monitoring and
evaluation system to provide the NRDC with timely information on
the implementation and impact of the Poverty Areas Program
(para. 5.21);
(d) the Borrower would cause the Bureau of the Budget to study the
recurrent cost requirements of the PAP and would provide the Bank
with details as to how appropriate budget provisions would be
made for this by June 30, 1985 in order to improve the
practicability, cost-effectiveness and to provide sufficient
recurrent budget for operation, maintenance and training
(para. 5.22);
(e) the MOAC and MOI sub-committees for Rural Development would
review their respective agricultural and ARD Poverty Area
Sub-programs, and by June 30, 1985, make recommendations on
(i) ways of improving the practicability, cost effectiveness and
(ii) the means to sustain subprogram benefits (para. 5.23); and
(f) the National Rural Development Coordinating Committee would
annually host an implementation review meeting for the project to
which all cofinanciers and concerned government agencies would be
and apprised of the progress in implementing of the NRDP and on
the impact of the program (para. 5.24).
6.02      As a condition of loan effectiveness, the borrower would open a
Special Account in a Commercial Bank acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.27).
6.03      Based on the above conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IBRD loan of $50 million on standard terms. The borrower
would be the Kingdom of Thailand.



THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Summary of MOAC and MOI (ARD) Poverty Area Subprograms
Sub-programs            Responsible Agency                      Objective                                       Operation                                             Targets
l. Village Fisheries        Fisheries Dept.            Increase production and consumption of          1.  Establishment of new village fish pond               285 ponds
fish.                                           2.  Rehabilitation of existing village fish pond  900 ponds
3.  Establishment of school fish pond                   300 ponds
4.  Training farmers, teachers and students.            some 50,000 people.
2. Village small            Livestock Dept.            Increase production and consumption of          1.  Disease conLrol measures                            Vaccination in some 4,000 villages per
livestock                                          poultry product.                                 2.  Tecinical support.                                  year.
3. Village fisheries in   Fisheries Dept.              To raise production and incomes of in-          1.  Establishment of fish traps for sea bass             20 sites
the South                                          shore villages in the South                      2.  Development of cockel fish raising                  3 sites
3. Technical support.
4. Village water            Extension Dept.            Improvement of village water resource           1.  Provision for farm inputs for vegetables             Some 10,000 villages
utilization                                        utilization                                      2.  Extension service
5. Village woodlots         Land Dept/Forestry         Increase local supplies of firewood, and    1.  Tree planting in small public plots in or                Sellected 32 provinces planting of 13.8
Dept.                     support soil and resource conservation               near villages                                       million trees
2. Training
3.  Extension work                                      Training of some 14,000 farmers and
officers
6. Village cattle-          Extension Dept.            Increase availability of cattle/                1.  Provision of in-calf cows/buffaloes to              Purchase and distribution of 19,200
buffalo bank                                       buffaloes to poor farm families                      selected families                                   cattle/buffaloes
7. Food production for    Extension Dept.              To stimulate production, and improve            1.  Formation of village group emphasizing women  4,000 villages
nutrition                                          utilization of foods of high nutritious          2.  Provision of seeds and inputs                       Distribution of seeds of beans, sesaso
value                                           3.  Technical support                                   and vegetables; Distribution of 800,000
chickens.
8. Highland rice            Dept. of Agriculture    Development and dissemination of                   1.  Field experimentation
production                                         improved rice varieties suited to                2.  Production and distribution of seed                 Production of 300 tons of foundation
highland conditions                             3.  Extension services                                   seed
4.  Training                                            Training of 24 groups of farmers and
officials
9. Soi1 improvement         Land Dept.                 Increased crop production through               1.  Development of extension program on compost    To produce 375,000 tons of compost
improved soil structure and fertility               and green manure                                     T3s
2.  Provision for seed of green manures and of          -                                                a
composing agents                                                                                       w 
3.  Training                                            75,000 farmers in 3,000 farmer groups            o
10. Saline soil improve-  Land Dept.                    Increase productivity of saline soils           1.  Establishment of research center                    One station
sent, northeast                                                                                     2.  Research on causes and extent of salinity
3.  Development and dissemination of salt
tolerant varieties of rice
4.  Field demonstration                                 In 15 changwad



Sub-programs           Responsible Agency                     Objective                                     Operation                                           Targets
11. Rainfed rice            Dept. of Agriculture;   Increase of rice production by the use          1.  Distribution of better seed                        Unquantified
Extension Dept.;         of improved varieties and better inputs    2.  Rice storage                                          2,600 units
Land Dept.                                                              3.  Training and extension                            -
12. Livestock develop-      Livestock Dept.           Increase productivity of cattle and pigs   1.  Provisions for vaccines                               2 million head of cattle and 6 million
ment                                                                                                                                                  head of pigs
2.  Training and extensions                           about 7,000 people
13. Saline soil and acid  Land Dept; Dept. of        Increase rice production                       1.  Seed distribution                                  900 tons
soil, south            Agriculture;                                                             2.  Application of lime stone                         90,000 cu m
Extension Dept.                                                         3.  Establishment of training center                  one unit
14. Soil erosion            Land Dept.               Retain or improve soil productivity            1.  Bring about farm participation in various          About 318,000 families
prevention                                                                                          soil erosion control measures
2.  Training                                          About 3,000 people
15. Upland crop             Dept. of Agriculture;   Improvement of production techniques for   1.  Seed and agro-chemicals supply                          About 3,000 villages
improvement             Extension Dept.          upland crops                                   2.  Extension work
16. Fruit tree develop-   Extension Dept.             Increase economic and food trees              1.  Supply of plants and materials                     For 286 districts
ment                                                                                            2.  Development of nurseries                           286 units
17. Timber bridge           ARD (Accelerated          To ensure year around traffic and             1.  Replacement of old timber bridges                  About 11,000 m
replacement            Rural Development         "ommunications in remote areas
Dept., MOI)
18. Village water           ARD                       Supply domestic water in rural areas,         1.  Construction of reservoir                          51 units
resource development                             and encourage garden and livestock             2.  Swamp development                                  153 units
production                                    3.  Pond development                                   306 units
0



- 54 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Physical Targets of MOAC and MOI (ARD) Poverty Area Subprograms
1984        1985        1986      Total
Village-based Schemes
Village Fisheries
New fishpond                                   90          95         100         285
Pond rehabilitation                           300         300         300         900
Schools (fish development)                    100         100         100         300
Development of Agricultural
Water Utilization
No. of villages (20 rai/village)         2,952       3,444       3,444       9,840
Village Small Livestock
Vaccine services (villages)                3,968       3,968       3,968      11,904
Demonstration station (changwad)               38          38          38         114
Village Fisheries in the South /a
Sea bass culture (sites)                        -          20           -          20
Cockel culture (sites)                          -           3           -           3
Village Woodlots
Training of officers (persons)                750      2,450       4,020       7,220
Training of farmers (persons)                 650      2,350       3,920       6,920
Seedling trees ('000 trees)                1,304       4,694       7,842      13,840
Nursery area /b (rai)                      3,260      11,740      19,600      34,600
Village Cattle-Buffalo Bank
Cattle-buffalo purchases (head)            4,800       6,400       8,000      19,200



- 55 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
1984        1985        1986      Total
Farmer-participation Schemes
Food Production for Nutrition
Village                                  1,000       1,400       1,600       4,000
Training (officials)                        386        426         426       1,238
Beans ('000 rai)                             15         21           24         60
Sesame ('000 rai)                            10         14          16          40
Chicken ('000 chickens)                    200         280         320         800
Vegetables ('000 rai)                         2        2.8         3.2            8
Children (0-3 years)                        80         112         128         32C0
Supplementary food (tons)                     2           3          -            'i
Highland Rice Production
Production of foundation seed (ton)        100         100         100         300
Training in groups
Official (groups)                          1           1           1           3
Farmers (groups)                           7           7           7          21
Soil Improvement
Training
Officials                                500         500         500       1,500
Farmer groups /c                       1,000       1,000       1,000       3,000
Organic fertilizer ('000 tons)             100         125         150         375
Saline Soil Improvement, Northeast
Demonstration (rai)                      1,000       1,000       1,000       3,000
Training
Officials                                200         200         200         600
Farmers                                  500         500         500       1,500
Demonstration show                            1           1           1           3
Rainfed Rice Production Improvement
Training, farmers                       10,000      14,000      16,000      40,000
Small rice plant                         5,149       7,229       8,345      20,723
Rice storage
10-ton capacity                          540         600         760       1,900
30-ton capacity                          100         200         400         700
Testing plots                              250         250         250         750
Livestock Development
Vaccine for cattle (no. of cattle)  672,144    689,832    689,832  2,051,808
Vaccine for pigs (no. of pigs)    1,950,000  1,906,000  2,000,000  5,856,000
Training
Farmers                                1,900       1,950       1,950       5,800
Farmer leaders                           380         390         390       1,160



- 56 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
1984       1985        1986       Total
Farmer-Participation Schemes (cont'd)
Saline and Acid Soil, South
Target families                          4,000       6,000       8,000      18,000
Rice seed (tons)                           200         300         400         900
Limestone (cu m)                        30,000      30,000      30,000      90,000
Training center construction                  1           -           -           1
Soil Erosion Prevention
Target families ('000 families)             72         104         142         318
Training (persons, officials)            1,064         777       1,081       2,922
Training center                               1           -           -           1
Upland Crop Improvement
No. of families ('000 families)             77         110         110         297
No. of village sites)                      770       1,110       1,110       2,990
Area ('000 rai)                             154        220         220         594
Fruit Tree Development
Small plants (amphoe units)               100         200         286         586
Coconut trees (amphoe units)              100         200         286         586
Tools (amphoe units)                      100         200         286         586
Greenhouse                                100         100          86         286
Infrastructure Schemes
Timber Bridge Replacement
Timber bridge replacement (m)              889       3,320       6,775      10,984
Village Water Resource Development
Reservoir construction                       17         17          17          51
Swamp development                           51          51          51         153
Pond development                           102         102         102         306
/a  1983 program is to develop 12 sea bass and 3 cockel culture sites.
/b  For 14 provinces in the first year.
/c  One group fo 25 farmers.



- 57 -                                 ANNEX 3
Table I
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of MOAC and MOI (ARD) Poverty Area Subprograms
(B million)
1984      1985        1986         Total
Village-based Schemes (MOAC)
Village fisheries                         93.00    102.00        112.00      307.00
Village small livestock                   14.55      15.03        15.03        44.61
Village fisheries in the south             8.03      20.40         4.40        32.83
Village water utilization                 29.52      34.44        34.44        98.40
Village woodlots                           7.00      16.19        23.31        46.50
Village cattle - buffalo bank             36.00      48.00        60.00       144.00
Subtotal                              188.10    236.06       249.18       673.34
Farmer-participation Schemes (MOAC)
Food production for nutrition             18.81      27.64        31.56        78.01
Highland rice production                   4.64       5.31         6.26        16.21
Soil improvement                          18.44      19.69        20.94       59.07
Saline soil improvement, northeast        12.30      11.12        11.08        34.50
Rainfed rice                              89.44    122.02        164.07      375.53
Livestock development                     44.45      45.95        46.44       136.84
Saline and acid soil, south               32.59      39.02       40.15       111.76
Soil erosion prevention                   38.82     49.04         65.19      153.05
Upland crop improvement                   10.00      13.50        13.70        37.20
Fruit tree development                    20.00      35.17        35.43        90.60
Subtotal                             289.49    368.46        434.82    1,092.77
Infrastructure Schemes (MOI-ARD)
Timber bridge replacement                 40.00    166.00       338.75       544.75
Village water resource development    166.70    183.00           212.00       561.70
Subtotal                              206.70    349.00       550.75    1,106.45
Total                                 684.29    953.52    1,234.75    2,872.56



-58-                                                                 ANNEX 3
Table 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing of Expenditures for MOAC aind MOt (ARD) Poverty Area Subprograms
Base Costs                                       Base Costs +
iBAHT '000)                    Foreign Exchange Price Cont. on Total Incl,
----------------------------- ----------------   Base Costs       Cont.
1984       1985         1986        Total       X      Asount      (US$ '000)   (US$  000!
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORK                                           314,040.0   358,646,0   420,206.0 1,092,892.0  20.0  218,578.4           54,483.0    54,483.0
Price Continsencies                                   22,205.8    50,103.1    87,907.4   160,216.2  22.3   35,742.6                               -
Sub-Total INCLUDiNG CONTINGENCIES                       336,245.8   408,749.1   508,113.4 1,253,108.2  20.3  254,321.0           54,483.0    540483.0
Foreign Exchange                                      670769.8    83,000,0   103,551.2   254,321.0   0.0           0.0               -    11?057.4
B. EOUIPMENI AND MATERIALS                              182,503.0   248,950.0   259,424.0   690,877.0  20.0  138,175.4           34,471.0    34,471.0
Price Continsencies                                   12,904.8    34,778.5    54,271.7   101,954.9  22.3   22,752,0                  -            -
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                       195Y407.8   283072845   313,695.7   792,831,9  20.3  160,927.4           34Y471.0    34,471.0
Foreign Exchange                                      39,384.1    57,613.5    63,929.7   160,927.4   0.0           0.0               -      6,996.8
C. PER DIEMY TRAVELY HOTEL.ETC.                          19,459.0    27,996.0   31,228.0    78,683.0  10.0    7,868.3             3,927.5      3,927.5
Price Contingencies                                    1,355.8      3,850.1     6,443.3    11.649.2  11.3    1,318.6                 -            -
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                        20,814.8    31,846.1    37,671.3    90,332.2  10.2    9,186.9            3,927.5      3,927.5
Foreign Exchange                                       2,099.6     3,239.5      3,847.8      9,186.9   0.0         0.0               -        399.4
D. TRAINING. SEhINAR, DEMONSTRATION, I/EETING. ETC.    46,169.0    58,390.0    69,119.0   173,678.0  10.0   17,367.8              8,660.3      8,660.3
Price Contingencies                                    3,216.8    8S029.9    14,261.5    25,508.2  11.3    2,886.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                        49,385.8    66,419.9    83,380.5   199,186.2  10.2   20,254.6            8,660,3      8,660.3
Foreign Exchanse                                       4,981.6     6,756.5      8,516.5    20,254.6   0.0          0.0               -        880.6
E. GOVERNMENT SERVICES                                    2,213.0      1,190.0     1,191.0      4,614.0   0.0         0.0           224.8        224.8
Price Contingencies                                      153.3        161.1       242.3        556.7   0.0         0.0               -
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                         2,386.3     1,351.1      1,433.3      5,170.7   0,0         0.0           224.8        224.8
F. INFRASTRUCTURE                                        40,000,    1,0   0       38,750.0   544,750,0  20.0  108,950.0          27i897,2   27,897.2
Price Contingencies                                    2,828.4    23,190.3    70,866.7    96,885.4  22.3   21,576.7
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                        42,82B.4   189,190.3   409,616.7   641,635.4  20.3  130,526.7           27,897.2    27,897.2
Foreign Exchange                                       8,632.0    38,416.7    83,478.0   130,526.7   0.0           0.0               -     5,675.1
G. RESEARCH1 AND.IDEVELOPMENT                            32,196.0    41,146.0    44,295.0   117,637.0  10.0   11,763.7            5,855.6      5,855.6
Price Contingencies                                    2,243,2     5,658.5      9,139.5    17,041.2  11.3    1,929.2
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                        34,439,2    46,804.5    530434.5   134,678.2  10.2   13,692.9            5Y855.6      5,855.6
Foreign Exchange                                       3,473.9     4,761.1      5,457.8    13,692.9   0.0          0.0               -        595.3
h. 0   M                                                 21,320.0    28938.0    33,144.0    83,402.0  50.0   41h701.0 4_192.5                  4,192.5
Price Continsencies                                    1,573,8     4,231.8      7,219.0    13,024.6  53.5    6,962.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                        22,893.8    33,169.8    40,363.0    96,426.6  50.5   48,663.8            4,192.5      4,192.5
Foreign Exchange                                      11,502.1    16,742.5    20,419.2    48,663.8   0.0           0.0               -      2f115.8
I. ADMINISTRATION                                        21,131.0    22,161.0    37,288.0    80,580.0   0.0           0.0         4,026.8      4,026.8
Price Contir,gencies                                   1,450.4     2,999.3      7,586.8    12,036.5   0.0          0.0               -
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                        22,581.4    25,160.3    44,874.8    92,616.5   0.0           0.0         4,026.8      4,026.8
J. LAND                                                   5,240.0        120.0       120.0      5,480.0   0.0         0.0           255.7        255.7
Price Continiencies                                      359.7         16.2        24.4        400.3   0.0         0.0               -            -
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                         5,599.7        136.2        144.4     5,880.3   0.0         0.0           255,7        255.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                     684,291,0   953,537.0 1,234,765.0 2'872,593.0  19.0  544,404.6          143,994.2   143,994.2
Price Continrencies                                      48,291.8   133,018.7   257,962.5   439,273.1  21.2   93,168.7                   -
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                              732,582.8 1,086,555.7 1Y492,727.5 3.311,866.1  19.3  637,573.3          143,994.2   143,994.2
Foreiln Exchange                                        137,843.3   210,529,9   289,200.1   637,573.3   0.0           0.0                     27,720.6
rotal BASELINE COSTS                                        6B4,291.0   953,537.0 1,234,765.0 2P872,593.0  19.O  544,404.6          143,994.2   143,994.2
Price Contingencies                                       4B8291.8   133P018.7   257,962.5   439,273.1  21.2   93,168.7                   -           -
Total Subprogram  Project Costs                             732,582.8 1,086,555.7 1,492,727.5 3,311,866.1  19.3  637,573.3           143,994.2   143,994.2
Foreian Exchange                                         137F843.3   210,529.9   289,200.1   637,573.3   0.0            0.0               -    27,720.6
October 31, 1983



- 59 -                            ANNEX 3
Table 3
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements /a
($ million)
Bank                                Bank
fiscal                 Disbursed
year and                 during
semester                 semester            Cumulative
1985
1st
2nd                     8                      8
1986
lst                    10                    18
2nd                    12                     3U
1987
1st                    13                    43
2nd                     7                     5U
Loan closing: June 30, 1988
/a In computing the disbursement schedule, which
would be tied to Government budgetary appropria-
tions for the PAP, it was assumed that: (i) the
budgetary of appropriations for PAP would be as
agreed by Cabinet of the beg4nning of the Fifth
Five-Year Plan; (ii) the Bank loan would be
disbursed over about 2.5 years of the three-year
program period i.e. Thai FY84 to 86; (iii) disburse-
ments would be made some six months after the end
of each budget trimester period; (iv) a disburse-
ment rate of 50%, i.e., 10% above to the financing
percentage for the Thai F84-86 program, would
provide an adequate spread over the program period;
and (v) Loan Closing June 30, 1988 would be 12
months after the last scheduled disbursement.



- 60 -                                                            ANNEX 4
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Costs in MOAC and MOI (ARD) /a
Poverty Area Subprograms
Farmer          Gov. Officer         Supplies    Demonstra-
training           training          equipment &   tion cost    Total
buildings                   _
number   B '000   number    B '000         B '000          B '000    B '000
Village Based Schemes                                                           300                        2,544
Village fisheries               52,140/b  2,544
Village small livestock                                                                  13,073
Village fisheries, in the south
Village water utilization
Village woodlots                 6,920    2,561    7,220    10,830                        5,412/c      18,803
Village cattle-buffalo bank
Farmer-Participation Schemes
Food production for nutrition                       1,256         818                                     818
Highland rice production
Soil improvement                75,000   32,439    1,500        1,605                                  34,044
Saline soil improvement,                                                                    180/d       1,590
northeast                      1,500       300      600      1,110                        750         2,990
Rainfed rice                   200,000    2,000                               240                       1,270
Livestock development            6,960    1,079                               191        14,942        19,905
Saline & acid soil, south        1,500    1,000        600     2,455        1,500         7,919       108,936
Soil erosion prevention       318,000    7,919    2,922        5,113      87,985            103           253
Upland crop improvement                                                       150
Fruit tree development
Infrastructure Schemes
Timber bridge replacement
Village water resource dev.
Total                     662,020   49,850   14,098    21,931         90,366        42,379        204,526
/a Complementary training in provincial planning began in 1981 through some $2 million support provided
under Cr. 929-TH. As of Sept. 30, 1983, training courses had been conducted in 17 provinces for
5,657 trainees; (i.e., at township (Tambon) level: 3,615 and at district (Amphur) level 2,042).
/b Includes farmers, committee members, teachers and students.
/c Including publications.
/d Three demonstrations each year.



- 61 -                                                    ANNEX 5
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart of Current Rural Development Agencies
The Cabinet
NationlI Economic
L.-_ _ _ _- _ _ _ _ _ __   Policy Steering
CommHtee
National                  National                  National                   Rua
Four                           Rural Dev.                Rural Dev.                Eco./Social                 Rural
Ministries      - _             Commission                   Center                  Dev. Board               Employment
(NRDC)          F        (NRDCC)                   (NESDB)               Creatio Comm.
Other Sub-
I   committees    I
Central
Departments
Provincial                                                          Pros ncial
r _ _ . ~~~~~~Development                                                                    Employnment
Provincial       Provincial                Committee                                                         Creation Comm.
Staffcis      Coordinator
StaffJ
*    t_ _  __  _  _           ~~~~P.D. Sub-
r-_ _   committee
l~~~~
I Other Subcommittee |
District                                    Disfrict
Staff          -- _ _  _ _.  _  _  _  _ Development
staff                        ~~~~~~Committee
Working Groups to
Support Tambon  |     _|_Township
Development                                    Council
Activities.
Village            Village
Development  OR       Central
Committee          Committee
Groups      Groups       Groups                                               Wodd Bank-24520



- 62 -                                                  ANNEX 6
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Progrmm Planning Cycle
VILLAGE                                    DISTRICT             PROVINCIAL
DEVELOPMENT            TOWNSHIP            DEVELOPMENT           DEVELOPMENT             NESDB, NRD
COMMITTEE             COUNCIL              COMMIMEE              COMMilTEE            COMMISSION &
(VDC)                 (TC)                 (DDC)                 (PDC)               NRD CENTER
OCTOBER           Recommends Projects
to Township Council
Review: VDC Recom-
NOVEMBER                               mendations, Establishes
PrlorIties, Submits to
District
Compiles. Comments on &
DECEMBER                                                    Forwards Project Appli-
cations to Province
Prepares. Adopts &
JANUARY                                                                              Submits Provincial
Plan to NESDB
Center Distributes
Specific Project
FEBRUARY                                                                                                  Proposals to Agences
for Comment & Budget
Request
Center Presents Approved
MARCH                                                                                                     Provincial project Re-
quests to Commisslon
for Submittal to Cabinet
NESDB & Appropriate
Ministry Representatives
APRIL                                                                                                     Consider Project Budget
Requests for Inclusion
in Ministry Budgets
Commission Informs
Bureau of Budget &
PDC of Approved Target
Areas & Projects
Select Specific Districts
JUNE                                                                               Within Approved Target
Areas. Informs DDC.
JULY                                                        Informs Township Council
of Approved Projects
Inforrns VDC of
AUGUST                                     Approvals
Reports Any Project
SEPTEMBER                                                                            Adjustments Required
SEPTEMBER                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by Final Budget to
NRD Center
World Bank-24522



- 63 -                                ANNEX 7
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross Margins from Subprogram Activities
Gross margin
Area cropped    Present/
or number      without        With
Product         Name of scheme                   of units      -------- (B) --------
Fish            Village fisheries            I (rai)              200            1,650
Sea bass        Village fisheries in the   1 (cage)                             6,200
South
Cockle          Village fisheries in the   500 (rai)                            10,500
South /a
Mungbean        Village water resource       2 (rai)             1,080           1,712
utilization
Peanut          Village water resource       2 (rai)            2,100            2,750
utilization
Sesame          Village water resource       1 (rai)            1,170            1,350
utilization
Bean            Food production for nu-    0.5 (rai)              875            1,000
trition
Sesame          Food production for nu-    0.3 (rai)              345              435
trition
Paddy           Highland rice production   2.5 (rai)             1,340           1,570
Paddy           Soil improvement             10 (rai)           5,376            6,811
Paddy           Saline soil improvement    10 (rai)             9,243           10,738
Paddy           Rainfed rice                 10 (rai)            5,320           6,370
(broadcast)
Paddy (trans-  Rainfed rice                  10 (rai)           8,176            9,475
planted)
Paddy           Saline and acid soil,        10 (rai)           3,920            4,740
south
Maize           Upland crop improvement    15 (rai)             10,335          11,730
Kenaf           Upland crop improvement    10 (rai)             10,340          11,350
Fruits          Fruit tree development /b  4-5 (trees)                    1,800-9,000
Duck eggs       Village water resource
development                10 (ducks)                         1,740
/a For 30-50 families.
/b Value of production differs depending on trees - ref. Project File.



-64 -                           ANNEX 8
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        A detailed description of the assumptions used in the economic
analysis is provided in the Project File. The following highlights the key
assumptions: (i) the analysis focuses on major products of paddy, fish,
chicken, cattle/buffalo, beans, sesame and fruits, which are assumed to
proxy a wide range of minor products; (ii) prices of internationally traded
products and farm inputs are based on world market prices, adjusted by
freight, transport, insurance, handling, processing, storage costs and
quality differentials; (iii) for nontraded variables, a standard conversion
factor of 0.92 has been applied. In addition, specific conversion factors
used are: transport conversion factor of 0.87, construction conversion
factor of 0.88, and chemical fertilizer conversion factor of 0.94. These
conversion factors are based on various Bank reports; and (iv) a shadow wage
rate of B 35 per day was used to reflect the opportunity cost of labor in
rural areas. The effective project period is assumed to be 20 years, with a
1 to 5 year development period.
2.        The 14 subprograms for which economic rates of returns are calcu-
lated would represent 68% of the proposed total program in terms of project
cost and yield an ERR of 12.4% for the project. The individual rates of
return vary, ranging from 10% to 17%. The overall rate of return
compares favorably with the estimated opportunity cost of capital of 12% in
Thailand. It was not feasible to calculate ERRs for 4 subprograms contri-
buting 32% of village-based, farm participation and infrastructure schemes
Costs, or 26% of total project cost because the benefits could not be
estimated with reasonable assurances; viz. livestock development (mainly to
provide vaccine services), soil erosion prevention (mainly to introduce
better cultivation practice and construction of earth banks), food
production for nutrition (which promotes a wide range of crops and livestock
products of high nutrition value), and village water resource development
(mainly to provide domestic water needs, and for some livestock and
vegetable development). The following lists economic rates of return for
selected subprograms.



- 65 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 2
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Results of Economic Analysis for Selected Subprograms
Subprogram                                  ERR (%)
Village-based Schemes
Village fisheries                                 15
Village small livestock                           13
Village fisheries in the South                    13
Village water utilization                         10
Village woodlots                                  10
Village cattle-buffalo bank                       11
Farmer Participation Schemes
Highland rice production                          17
Soil improvement                                  13
Saline soil improvement, northeast                16
Rainfed rice                                      15
Saline soil and acid soil, south                  10
Upland crop improvement                           17
Fruit tree development                            14
Infrastructure Schemes
Timber bridge replacement                         16



- 66 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 1
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Documents of the Project File
Volume 1
1. Overview of Rural Development in Thailand and Programs and Procedures for
the New National Rural Development Program
2. Interaction between Officials and Villages in Thai Rural Development
3. Monitoring and Evaluation System: Framework for the Poverty Alleviation
Program
4. Training and Special Studies Background Materials
(a) An Approach to Strengthening the NRDP System
(b) Rationale for Conducting Training-related Studies
(c) A Study of Training in the Four NRDP Ministries of the Royal Thai
Government (Document bound separately).
(d) Provincial Planning Progress Report
(e)  Draft UNDP Project Document on "Analysis of Management and
Communication Skill Needs for the National Rural Development
Programme (NRDP)"
(f) Special Studies: Draft TOR's for analysis of technical budgetary
and O&M aspects of the MOAC and MOI (ARD) subprograms
Volume 2
5. Agriculture Subprogram Details for the Poverty Areas Program
6. Infrastructure Subprogram Details for the Poverty Areas Program
Volume 3
7. Costs and Project Cost Analyses for the National Rural Development
Program
8. Project Disbursement Procedures and related information on Budgetary
and Comptroller General Accounting Procedures.



- 67 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 2
Volume 4
9. Government Documents
(a) Government Regulation and order for the National Rural Development
Program (NRDP) and the Rural Employment Generation Program
(REGP).
(b) Planning System for Improved Rural Area Development by Kosit
Pumpiemrach
(c) A study on the improvement of Technical Quality of Project and
Program Preparation Interministerial Coordination and Rural
Development Management Data-Supporting Systems (Report by the
TURA Institute, March 1983). (Document bound separately.)
Volume 5
10. Domestic Water Resource Development.






THAILAND
~~r*        ~           NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B UR  MA                                       'KPoverty Areas (by district)
200"-/                                                                                                _     District Boundaries (poverty areas onrly) 2h'
S~~I\   a C7~~~~~%~~H~~,/ ~Changwat (Province) Boundaries
'K                                  '~~~~~~~~"~~~~ ~Region,al Boundaries
rm      )h;Uvtt)7                                                                       nereatio,vol Boundaries
-I  Jeh~~~~0%~~                                     N     > ~~       LAO    PEOPLE'S
N'    ~ ~   /  ~t-* 'V                                 -         P~~~I\t\   DEMOCRATIC
*   ~~~-A  7~~  /              )       '                Vt   >~~~~ffl-V        <     ½-          REPUBLIC
St                       /        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ LJN                      'B-I-
'rI          (yY    a           Rrk)hal
S        \l~       t,'     ~            1n"lah                  N-        %Zc<~          ""p-'-"tO
V                               /   C                       t-'   2~~~~~~~~
L  __  NUZ                ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  s~~~~~~-jm  ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     16 
0  1  /                             'B"'-        '--'y
d.J¾   ,   ''Nl - ~O' '                               ~      '
CN~~s~iOx1       'Bl60~TllLl,5,Ni   2
'naB          '-4    v~~~~~   B,~~~enoI     ,~~~              I
>~~~  </5/  ~~~~~~ ~~N Ba                                     70~~~~~~~ll~~~      5/~j
hiaB"-0-
I        " _j    0
*  0-i  -' 1 0C~~~., ~~Th                            POVERTY  AREAS BY REGtON
'1       \   T~~~I- ,rt0u0 1             0"                                 NOR1THAT        16        71        1
C  E N/'T R AI"                                          SO2H5                      26         6
-2    INN  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~03                                                                       42         4
110  H                                   '.                        ~~~~~~~DEMOCRATIC
(iN'  /                                           -Q                  ~~~~~~~~~KAMPLJCHEA
C  ,f                                                                       tO's nwe has~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r Been 206,56
)                                                              --       000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ead - he dnvobvn-tovv
/                                                               '-- 1 pay at~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ~- The WoBdRa - evth
thO -    - akhh-ndey
1                                                  ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~NDIA       CHN
Zl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of                                                         i ..
Iw                                                                                      THAILAND
/    DEM0CRK j1
N  ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~     f       yB~~~~~~~~~AMPuCHEA)
0  100        2bo~       ~ ~ ~~-' '-oSn0h0/C
0                                                                                                                                    0~~~~~~~~~~~a -
00  200  300                1         >5'p                                         MALAY~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIN A   z11
tomottes ~ ~   ~     10MAL            IAIN    CON                                                                     
_ _ _      _     _      _      _                                                                                                          hIt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



