Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FLe
Report No. P-3744-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$50 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR THE
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 29, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1.00        =  B 23.0
B 1.00       =  $0.04
B 1 million  =  $43,478
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES
FISCAL YEAR
April I to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ha  =  hectare (2.47 acres)
m   =  meter (3.28 feet)
km  =  kilometer (0.62 miles)
kg  =  kilogram (2.2 pounds)
rai =  rai (0.16 hectares)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARD    =  Accelerated Rural Development Department
IFAD   =  International Fund for Agricultural Development
JICA   -  Japanese International Cooperation Agency
MOAC   =  Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MOI    =  Ministry of Interior
NESDB  =  National Economic and Social Development Board
NRDCC  =  National Rural Development Coordinating Committee
UNDP   =  United Nations Development Programme
USAID  =  United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:     The Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:        $50 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:        Repayable in 20 years, including 6 years grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:  The project would strengthen and support key elements of
Thailand's National Rural Development Program (henceforth known
as the Program) which was introduced in 1982 at the commencement
of the current Five-Year Plan (1982-86). The Program involves
the most significant regulatory, planning, budgetary and manage-
ment reforms to have been instituted in Thailand to date to
address the alleviation of rural poverty. The reforms have been
designed to overcome past difficulties and in particular would
promote continuity of implementation and greatly increase
coordination of investments by the key ministries responsible
for rural development, i.e., Agriculture, Education, Health and
Interior. The Program has been specifically designed to ensure
that funds do go to those areas where they are most needed.
Criteria have been established to determine poverty districts
and to aid in the selection, implementation and management of
investments. The Program has already been operating for two
years and Government's own funding has amounted to about $77
million.
The proposed project, which amounts to $157.2 million, has been
designed to (i) help develop the Program into an effective
institution for coordinating and increasing cost-effectiveness
of government investments in rural areas, (ii) foster increased
participation of local communities in selecting and implementing
investments best suited to their own needs, and (iii) support
investments in poverty districts to increase agricultural pro-
duction, and meet basic nutritional and infrastructure needs.
Such investments would be made through 18 types of "self help"
subprograms. These would constitute a list of investment
packages from which local communities could choose those best
suited to their needs. The project would be implemented
throughout the Program area which covers 286 poverty designated
districts (40% of country total) spanning 38 provinces (51% of
total). Some 4 million households live in areas covered by the
Program and more than half would benefit from this first-phase
project. The Bank would finance mainly civil works, training,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
agriculture, livestock and fishery inputs for the 18 subpro-
grams. JICA, UNDP and USAID would provide parallel financing
for technical assistance and computer equipment to strengthen
the national monitoring and evaluation system, and to conduct
special studies on various aspects of the Program where early
feedback is important. Many of the Program districts are
extremely poor in resources and, while investments would be
channeled as far as possible into productive activities, some
aspects of the Program would aim at providing basic needs and at
mitigating underemployment through public works and community
activities. These aspects of the Program should be seen as a
holding operation which is needed until growth in employment
outside of agriculture begins to narrow the gap between labor
availability and rural employment opportunities.
The main risks for the project center on the need to maintain a
high level of political commitment to the Program, and on the
importance of developing an effective monitoring and evaluation
system with which to determine the impact of the Program and to
make modifications as it evolves. A second level of risks
relate to the technical capacity of the implementing agencies.
For this reason, the subprograms supported under the project
would be those for which complementary support is being provided
to the technical agencies responsible for subprogram implementa-
tion through other Bank-supported projects. The project is per-
ceived to be the first in a series to support poverty allevia-
tion through the National Rural Development Program and subse-
quent projects may well support health and education aspects of
the Program.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:                                                            Foreign
($ million) ----   exchange
Local  Foreign  Total       (%)
Village Based Agriculture subprograms    23.8          5.5    29.3         19
Farmer participation based subprograms   38.3          9.2    47.5        19
Infrastructure subprograms                   39.1      9.0    48.1        19
Establishment of a Monitoring and
Evaluation capacity                         7.0      3.1    10.1        32
Special Studies                                1.1     0.3      1.4       21
Base Cost                                 109.2    27.1   136.3         20
Price Contingencies                          16.5      4.4    20.9        21
Total Project Cost /a                     125.7    31.5   157.2         20
Front-end fee on Bank Loan                       -     0.1      0.1
Total Financing required                  125.7    31.6   157.3         20
Financing Plan:                                  ----    million) ----   % of
Local  Foreign  Total   total
Government                                   80.7     19.0    99.7    63.4
Bank                                         40.5      9.5    50.0    31.8
USAID                                         2.6      2.4      5.0      3.2
JICA                                          0.6       1.5     2.1      1.3
UNDP                                          0.2      0.3      0.5      0.3
Total                                     124.6    32.7   157.3   100.0
Estimated Disbursements:
($ million) ---
Bank FY        1985    1986    1987
Annual           8       22       20
Cumulative       8       30       50
/a Including $5.5 million of taxes and duties.



- iv -
Economic Rate of Return:  12.4% when computed for subprograms which together
account for 68% of Bank financed components, or 54%
of total project costs. Other components of the
project do not lend themselves to quantification of
benefits.
Staff Appraisal Report:   Report No. 4761-TH dated February 29, 1984.
IBRD Map: No. 17589



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
FOR A NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Thailand, for the equivalent of $50.0 million including
capitalized front-end fee to help finance a National Rural Development
Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including six years grace,
at the standard variable interest rate. The Bank would finance the project on
a parallel basis with the United States Agency for International Development
($5 million), the Japanese International Cooperation Agency ($2.1 million) and
the United Nations Development Programme ($0.5 million).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
1.        An economic report entitled "Coping with Structural Change in a
Dynamic Economy" (Report No. 3067-TH) was issued on December 23, 1980. It
proposed a medium-term strategy to deal with the adjustment problems resulting
from the two oil price shocks of the 1970s. Subsequently, the Royal Thai
Government initiated a program of structural adjustment policies, which the
World Bank supported by two structural adjustment loans. An economic report
entitled "Managing Public Resources for Structural Adjustment" (Report
No. 4366-TH) was discussed with the Government in May 1983 and issued on
August 31, 1983. It reviewed progress in the implementation of structural
adjustment policies and proposed directions for further action, especially in
regard to the mobilization and management of public resources.
Recent Political Developments
2.        Since the early 1970s, the political process in Thailand has
broadened and matured significantly. Initially, this was accompanied by
frequent and sometimes abrupt changes in government leadership. Since the
1977 general elections, however, Thailand has enjoyed a period of greater
political stability and continuity of policy. Cabinet shuffles have continued
to take place, reflecting shifts in the makeup of the coalitions of political
parties, military and business leaders, and technocrats, which have governed
the country for the past five years. However, only one change in Prime
Minister has occurred during this period. General Prem Tinsulanonda was
appointed as Prime Minister in March 1980 and has been successful in mobil-
izing support for a major program of economic structural adjustment, embodied
in the Fifth Five-Year Plan, 1982-86. Senior civil servants supporting this
program were given key positions in the public sector. Although there are
continuing internal debates on the details and speed of policy implementation,
overall, a broad public consensus on national policy priorities has been
maintained.
3.        National elections were held again on April 18, 1983, in which
candidates from ten parties were elected to Parliament. No party secured an



outright majority, but Prime Minister Prem succeeded in forming a new four-
party coalition which includes two of the three leading parties and has the
backing of approximately two-thirds of the elected representatives. As part
of a gradual constitutional reform aiming at increased representative govern-
ment, transitional arrangements had been in place for a five-year period to
permit serving military, civilian and other non-elected officials to continue
to play a stabilizing role in both the legislative and executive branches of
government through their appointment to the powerful senate and to Cabinet
posts. These transitional arrangements were allowed to lapse, curtailing the
senate's powers and prohibiting military and civilian officials from partici-
pating in the Cabinet. These changes, when combined with the current coali-
tion's diversity, and the Prime Minister's lack of an independent political
power base, have made it hard to achieve a consensus on difficult economic
issues since the April 1983 election. However, the Government has endorsed
the Fifth Plan's objectives of improved economic management, structural
adjustment and poverty alleviation and has moved cautiously in continued Plan
implementation. Continuation of ongoing policy and institutional reforms is
therefore expected.
Past Economic Trends
4.        Thailand's economy grew rapidly over the past two decades and
developed successfully by most standards of international comparison. Its per
capita income growth of almost 5% p.a. during 1960-1980 was among the highest
sustained rates in developing countries. The reduction of poverty was sub-
stantial for a country still among the lowest third of middle-income develop-
ing countries, as the overall incidence of poverty dropped from about 57% in
the early 1960s to about 31% in the mid-1970s. Despite its continuing
reliance on agriculture, Thailand experienced a far-reaching transformation of
its economic and social structure during the past two decades, with a high
growth in modern industrial and service sector activities, extension of trans-
port and communications infrastructure throughout the country, rapid modern-
ization, and a significant increase in the openness of the economy to trade
and capital flows, tourism and international labor migration. The rapid
growth in Thailand's exports played a particularly important role in stimulat-
ing aggregate demand and providing the necessary means to finance imports.
Moreover, because of this rapid export growth, the Thai debt service burden
remained moderate.
5.        However, because of its increased openness, its heavy dependence on
imported oil, and an expansionary fiscal stance in the late 1970s, the Thai
economy was substantially affected by the two oil price shocks and by the
ensuing international upheaval. A relatively high rate of overall growth was
maintained initially but this was accompanied by accelerating inflation, large
fiscal and external deficits and growing dependence on foreign borrowing.
Consumer prices increased by 10% in 1979, by 20% in 1980, and by 13% in
1981. The Central Government deficit on average exceeded 4% of GDP in the
period 1979-82. Notwithstanding continued rapid export growth, the current
account deficit amounted to 7.7% of GDP in 1979, 6.2% in 1980, and 6.9% in
1981; consequently, there has been a rapid accumulation of Thailand's tradi-
tionally low external debt.



- 3 -
6.        Initially, the Government was slow in responding to the changing
external conditions, but, beginning in 1980, policy adjustments were under-
taken at a gradually accelerating pace through 1982. They included sharp
increases in prices for most petroleum products, electricity and other public
services; measures to increase government revenues; a substantial increase in
real interest rates; and the introduction of regulations to increase financial
stability and monetary restraint. In October 1981 the Government inaugurated
its Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86) which made structural adjustment one of its
major priorities. In March 1982, the first SAL for Thailand was approved,
under which the Government committed itself to taking steps towards an adjust-
ment in the structure of the economy through reductions in domestic price
controls, export taxes and controls over agricultural exports; developing a
program for improved land tenure; taking steps toward rationalization of the
structure of incentives for industrial production, exports, and investment
energy conservation and efficient development of domestic energy resources;
and improving the Government's tax structure and administration, public
investment planning, and other areas of public administration. Progress under
SAL I was satisfactory, and SAL II was approved in March 1983 with the goal of
continued and expanded implementation of the Government's structural adjust-
ment program. Further progress has been made since that time, but at a some-
what slower pace than originally expected. However, the Government remains
committed to satisfactory completion of SAL II programs.
7.        Macroeconomic developments in Thailand during 1982/83 were dominated
by a number of external factors, in particular the worldwide recession in 1982
and gradual recovery in 1983. The average real growth rate of GDP for 1982/83
was about 5% p.a., and real income growth when adjusted for terms-of-trade
changes was even lower at about 2% p.a. and thus stagnant in per capita
terms. This lower than historical economic growth performance was due to a
combination of high real interest rates at home and abroad, worldwide reces-
sion and thus much lower export prices and growth, and a relatively slow
growth in agricultural production due to poor weather and low commodity
prices. As a result of weak domestic demand in 1982, lower international
prices, and an appreciating exchange rate, domestic inflation dropped from 13%
in 1981 to below 4% in 1983.
8.        The growth of export value and volume also slowed considerably
during this period. In 1983, export value actually dropped by 6%, as a result
of a poor 1982/83 crop year, a revival of domestic demand, an appreciating
effective exchange rate (especially in relation to Thailand's main competi-
tors), and international trade restrictions affecting selected Thai export
products (especially tapioca, sugar, tin and textiles). Imports, on the other
hand, which had declined in 1982 in line with a slump in domestic investment
and destocking, resumed rapid growth in 1983 because of a revival in domestic
private demand in the face of lower interest rates and high banking liquidity
and, possibly, as a result of exceptional accumulation of stocks driven by
expectations of an impending devaluation of the baht. A continued high public
investment-savings gap added to the excess demand. Given these trade develop-
ments, the current account deficit, which had reached a cyclical low of only
about 3% of GDP in 1982, rebounded to 5.6% of GDP in 1983 according to pre-
liminary estimates, and may in fact prove to have exceeded 6% of GDP once
final figures are available. Since late 1983, the Government has taken steps



to control the rapid recovery. Tax measures were taken to reduce the prospec-
tive budgetary gap for FY83/84, public expenditure plans were trimmed and
monetary conditions were tightened. For 1984, the external balance is likely
to improve, since a relatively good harvest in the 1983/84 crop year and
better international commodity prices are expected to lead to an improved
performance of Thailand's traditional exports, while imports are likely to
grow more modestly, as private investment growth and restocking slow down, and
as the public investment-saving gap is reduced by higher levels of taxation
and reduced expenditure growth. However, continued implementation of the
structural adjustment program remains essential to restoring internal and
external balance in the Thai economy.
Development Constraints and Prospects
9.        During the 1980s, many of the positive factors which contributed to
Thailand's rapid economic growth and reduction in poverty over the preceding
two decades will continue to do so, including the relatively equitable distri-
bution of agricultural land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to improved tech-
nology, a good network of public infrastructure, and a dynamic private sector
in industry, agriculture and services. Substantial reductions in the rate of
population growth between the mid-1960s and late 1970s and discovery of domes-
tic gas and oil supplies are further positive factors which will support the
continued rapid development of Thailand.
10.       Against these favorable factors, however, a number of important con-
straints must be recognized and addressed: (a) For the longer term, the
exhaustion of agricultural land reserves could severely limit employment
growth and exports of the agricultural sector, unless rapid, labor-intensive
agricultural development proceeds. (b) Further industrial development,
exports and employment growth may similarly be limited unless the inter-
national competitiveness and diversification of Thai industry are strengthened
through correct incentives and support for marketing, finance and technologi-
cal developments. (c) Despite the promising outlook for domestic energy
resources, their development is costly and will take time, and thus continued
efforts in energy consideration are required. (d) The decline in the popula-
tion growth rate appears to have slowed in recent years; further reductions
will require innovative policies. (e) Continued long-term development and
poverty alleviation will also depend on continued efforts in human resource
development, including education, technical skill development, and improve-
ments in health and nutrition. (f) The pace of development will increasingly
be hampered by inefficient metropolitan growth in Bangkok, unless steps are
taken to rationalize the city's land use and transport, water drainage and
sanitation systems; Thailand's secondary cities, too, require strengthening of
their infrastructure and administrative capabilities to prepare them for the
expected future growth in urban population. (g) Finally, the rapid growth of
Thailand's public sector over the last decade, particularly of major state
enterprises, without commensurate growth in public resource mobilization, has
posed a serious challenge to improvements in institutional and fiscal
management.
11.       These long-term economic development concerns have been compounded
by medium-term adjustment problems as a result of the two oil price shocks and



- 5 -
the subsequent world recession accompanied by poor export prospects and high
real interest rates. Economic projections carried out for the recent Economic
Report indicate that continued implementation of the Government's program for
structural adjustment should make it possible to restore external balance for
the economy during the Fifth Plan period. Over the medium term, however, the
slower growth of GDP (6% p.a. for the remainder of the 1980s compared with
7.4% achieved in the latter half of the 1970s) while still better than that of
most other developing countries, will make it more difficult to increase
employment and to reduce the incidence of poverty and regional inequalities,
and heightens the need for policies which raise the labor absorption of Thai
development, and for continued efforts in the areas of human capital develop-
ment and rural development.
12.        To assist it in realizing the objectives of the Fifth Plan, the
Government has sought the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. During the past
three years Thailand made purchases from the IMF under a compensatory financ-
ing facility (SDR 186 million), a buffer stock financing facility (SDR 58 mil-
lion), and two standby arrangements with total purchases of SDR 617 million,
under these two arrangements). With regard to the Bank, the Government sought
assistance in implementing its structural adjustment program through two
structural adjustment loans. The first such loan was approved by the Execu-
tive Directors on March 2, 1982; the second loan was approved on March 31,
1983. The Government has also expressed its interest in obtaining Bank
assistance in preparing the Sixth Five Year Plan (1987-91). The country
economic and sector work program for Thailand has been structured accordingly.
Financing Requirements
13.        While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of policies
needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress will require
continued growth in the absolute level of public expenditures, though they are
expected to drop somewhat in relation to GDP. In order to reduce the public
investment-savings gap to sustainable levels, much greater efforts will be
required to mobilize domestic resources than in the past. The Government's
domestic revenue, as a percentage of GDP (about 14% for 1978 to 1980), is low
compared to that of other developing countries at similar levels of develop-
ment. Recently, the Government has taken steps to revise the tax structure
and to improve collections with resultant improvements in the revenue/GDP
ratio. Further tax measures are planned, particularly in the area of improved
tax administration and structure. In addition, the financial situation of
state enterprises, which has stabilized in the wake of tariff increases since
1980 and cutbacks in overly ambitious investment programs, will need further
improvement. The Government is currently reviewing appropriate policies to
advise a more efficient and financially viable state enterprise sector.
14.        Despite these fiscal policy measures and the ambitious structural
adjustment policies to be implemented in the agriculture, industry and energy
sectors, the demand for external resources will increase. Macroeconomic
projections indicate that the current account deficit will remain at levels
about $1.5 billion per annum through most of the 1980s, while declining as a
share of GDP. Even the realization of this target will require large amounts



- 6 -
of external borrowing, totalling about $30 billion over the period 1984-90, of
which about 45% is expected to be in the form of public and publicly
guaranteed debt. Assuming a significant level of concessional assistance,
total debt service payments as a percentage of exports of goods and nonfactor
Services will rise from 15.4% in 1980 to 19.6% in 1990, reaching a peak of
21.8% in 1987 (including repurchases from the IMF). Given the diversification
of Thai commodity exports and the continued expansion of agricultural and
rnanufactured exports expected as a result of appropriate structural adjustment
policies, these debt service requirements should be sustainable.
1L5.      Official donors, particularly the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
of Japan and the development banks, have been expanding their programs to meet
a larger part of Thailand's growing public resource requirements. The rest
has been financed mainly through syndicated loans and bond issues. The
Government has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to coordinate and
approve all foreign borrowing by the public sector. The Bank of Thailand is
improving its procedures for recording private borrowing abroad in order to
keep track of total foreign debt. External agencies, including the Bank
Group, have in recent years increasingly concentrated on project lending to
Thailand in some sectors that have high social benefits but low foreign
exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of external resource
transfers that is now required, it is necessary, in selected projects where
the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local currency
expenditures.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
16.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of September 30, 1983, had received 76 IBRD loans (including
two third-window loans) and six IDA credits, totalling (net of cancellations)
$3,244 million in loans and $125 million in credits. As of that date, $1,344
million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No IDA credits
have been extended to Thailand since FY79. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.
L7.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in dollar
terms, has been as follows: 28% for energy; 25% for agriculture and rural
development; 16% for transportation; 9% for telecommunications; 4% for urban
development; 5% for education; 2% for industry; 1% for population/health/
nutrition; and 10% for structural adjustment lending.  Overall implementation
of Bank projects in Thailand has improved steadily during the past five
years. Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 17.7% in 1977 to 31.6% in
L983. These rates compare well with other countries. In 1983, for example,
the ratios for two comparator countries, the Philippines and Morocco, were
19.4% and 17.9%, respectively.
18.       Over the past six years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infrastructure
projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY75) to a program
which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government in its efforts to



-7-
reach the poorer segments of its population more directly.  Since FY76,
investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications and
industry have accounted for about 65% of Bank Group lending and about half of
these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed to benefit the
rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the agricultural/rural
development sector has trebled, accounting for about 25% of lending operations
since FY76. The design of projects in this sector has also changed, from
exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced program covering
irrigation (including land development and support services to the farmer) and
a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers outside the central flood
plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural extension, research and
credit). Projects in the social sectors which, prior to FY76, were limiLted to
three in education, accounting for 5% of the lending program, have both diver-
sified and grown. In recent years education, population and low-income hous-
ing projects have accounted for about 10% of the program.
19.       For the future, the Bank's assistance objectives are to support the
Government's development efforts, as articulated in its Fifth Five-Year Plan,
to address: (a) the long-term issues of alleviation of poverty alleviation,
promotion of employment, and reduction of income disparities; and (b) the
medium-term issue of restructuring the Thai economy through the intensifica-
tion of agriculture, efficient development of the industrial sector, promotion
of domestic energy conservation and development, increased mobilization of
public resource, and improvement of institutional capacity in the public
sector. In addition to these two broad objectives, Bank assistance in
Thailand also aims at moving from project-specific to sectoral lending,
especially in agriculture, industry, energy, and education, and at strengthen-
ing the local Thai capacity for policy formulation and analysis.
20.       In implementing this strategy, projects in the areas of agriculture
and rural development will seek to generate employment and income growth
particularly among the poorer farm households in the rainfed areas of the
country and will support the structural adjustment process by aiming at
continued growth of agricultural production and exports through intensi-
fication. Lending for transport and communications will increasingly aim at
expanding the rural road system and thus support agricultural and rural
development for the medium and longer term. In the urban development and
human resources sectors, Bank lending will be geared to strengthening the
long-term capacity of Thailand to transform itself efficiently from a
primarily agricultural and rural economy to a relatively more industrial and
urban economy, while also supporting the Government's goal to address basic
human needs in the more disadvantaged rural and urban areas of the country.
Lending in the energy and industry sectors will be designed to support struc-
tural adjustment and growth through the efficient development and utilization
of domestic energy resources and the strengthening of the financial infra-
structure. Finally, structural adjustment lending will strengthen the Govern-
ment's structural adjustment program through studies, development of action
programs, and policy actions in the areas of agriculture, industry, energy,
fiscal policy, and institutional development.
21.       Bank loans and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to $1,683.2 million as of September 30, 1983.  Thailand's Bank and



- 8 -
IDA debt disbursed and outstanding accounted for 17.6% of its total debt (dis-
bursed and outstanding), while the Bank Group's share of Thailand's total debt
service payments amounted to 10.0% in 1983. This is not excessive in view of
Thailand's modest overall external debt (22.4% of GDP in 1981) and the stable
shares of Bank Group debt in total debt, and of Bank Group debt service in
total debt service.
22.       As of September 30, 1983, IFC had made fifteen commitments totalling
$116.0 million in ten projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enter-
prises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been enhanced
by expanding private sector investment activity, and consultations with the
Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may be
needed. IFC is focusing its activities on projects based on natural
resources. Recent investments were made in a tantalum smelter and chemical
plant to process slags from the tin smelter and in an aquaculture project to
breed and grow shrimp and fish. IFC has also invested in a pilot company to
develop the petrochemical complex that will utilize the ethane/propane from
the gas separation plant being built with World Bank assistance. Under con-
struction is a cement expansion project geared for the domestic market.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
23.       Out of Thailand's population of some 50 million, about 80% live in
rural areas and earn their livelihood principally in agriculture.  There are
about 5 million farm households and 2 million nonfarm households in the rural
areas. The rural sector of Thailand is in many ways exceptional: (a) it is a
major net exporter of food grains; (b) it has grown and diversified rapidly
over a long and sustained period; (c) Thai farmers have been found to respond
vigorously to relative price incentives; (d) ownership and usufruct of
cultivated land are widely and fairly evenly distributed; and (e) labor
mobility within rural areas and between rural and urban areas is very high in
both directions.
24.       The performance and growth of the agricultural sector in Thailand
has been the determining influence behind the dynamism of the nation's
economy. Agricultural production (GDP in constant terms) grew at an annual
rate of about 5% during 1960-80. In 1982, agriculture contributed about 21%
of GDP and 64% of exports, and provided full or part-time employment for more
than 50% of the country's labor force. Furthermore, with real agricultural
output per capita growing at over 2% p.a. in the past two decades, and the
relatively even distribution of farm holdings, the strong agricultural
performance has contributed to a substantial reduction of rural poverty.
25.       The process at work in Thai agriculture over the past quarter
century has been the commercialization and diversification of the rural
sector, predominantly in response to opportunities in world trade. The key
factors in this development have been the efficiency of private markets, the
extension of the road system, the rapid expansion of the cultivated area, the



- 9 -
expansion of irrigation, and the introduction of high value crops and mechani-
zation in response to market opportunities. The expansion of the cultivated
area by 4.0% p.a. has been the main force behind the development of Thai agri-
culture over the past two decades, and has accounted for most of the 5% p.a.
growth in output, while yield increases played a relatively minor role.
26.       In recent years, however, growth of agricultural production has been
gradually falling off. Agricultural GDP in constant prices, which had grown
at about 5.5% p.a. in the 1960s, slowed to 5.1% p.a. in 1970-75 and 3.5% p.a,
in 1975-80. The slowdown in the 1970s was more pronounced for the crop
subsector, which contributes 73% of agricultural GDP. The deterioration
occurred primarily because earlier growth had been achieved through expansion
of the cultivated area, but, more recently, poorer marginal lands increasingly
came under cultivation and average yields, already low relative to other
developing countries, decreased further.
27.       The steady and widespread growth of agriculture has been a signif-
icant factor in the overall reduction in the incidence of poverty from 57% in
1962/63 to about 30% at present. Poverty in Thailand is overwhelmingly a
rural problem, and in rural areas over one-third of the population is in
absolute poverty (i.e., annual incomes less than $165 per capita). Poverty is
also heavily concentrated in the peripheral regions of the country. Over 80%
of the poor are in the rural areas of the Northern, Northeastern and Southern
Regions. A slowdown in agricultural growth will clearly make the Government's
aim of continuing to reduce the incidence of poverty more difficult to
achieve. Of primary concern is the 3% annual growth in the labor force which
creates the need for some 700,000 new jobs each year. Absorption of this
level of labor influx would require overall growth rates of around 8% p.a.,
whereas in reality only a 5% aggregate growth rate is expected. Moreover,
with agriculture expected to grow at only about 3% p.a., it must be antici-
pated that unemployment in rural areas will grow, leading to more serious
income disparities.
The Government's Rural Development Policy
28.       Recognizing that growth in rural areas is primarily dependent upon
agriculture, the main objectives of the Government's policy are: (a) to
increase agricultural production and expand agricultural exports rapidly to
help the balance of payment deficits; (b) to alleviate rural poverty and
reduce inter-regional income disparities; (c) to utilize better the available
land suitable for agriculture, protect against deforestation, conserve natural
resources, and minimize the degradation of the environment; and (d) to
increase the capability of rural communities to solve problems and achieve
development. This strategy is incorporated in the Government's Five-Year Plan
(1982-86) and conforms well with the Bank's agricultural lending strategy for
Thailand as described below.



- 10 -
Bank Lending Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement in the Project
29.       The primary objective of the Bank's lending operations in rural
Thailand is to achieve growth with equity. Thus, while increased agricultural
production is clearly central to the Bank's strategy, both for growth and
poverty alleviation, the broader strategy being followed to achieve this
objective is to boost the level of economic activity in rural areas, thus
creating job opportunities directly and through resulting spinoff activities.
Preference is given to developments closest to poverty areas in the expecta-
tion that more of the benefits would accrue to the poverty group. With the
potential for agricultural area expansion almost fully realized in Thailand,
future economic growth in rural areas must increasingly come from crop inten-
sification and diversification and through off-farm employment.
30.       In the past, despite political commitment to rural development,
government efforts have usually been disappointing because of lack of local
commitment, shortage of funds, lack of coordination between agencies, and
because programs lacked locational specificity. As a result, earlier schemes
have been short-lived and benefits usually accrued to better-off areas. There
were also serious leakages of funds to non-program activities. Because of
these difficulties, Bank support for rural development in Thailand has
primarily been focused on strengthening ministerial technical capabilities,
e.g., agricultural extension, research and public health services. No large
integrated rural development programs were financed.
31.       This was the context in which the objectives and strategy  for rural
development for the current Five-Year Plan (1982-86) were formulated, and
which provides the b7sis for the proposed project. The National Rural
Development Program- was formulated by the Central Planning Agency of
Government (NESDB) and the details were developed over several years through
subcommittees made up of senior government and academic staff highly regarded
in their particular field. Extensive use was also made of consultants,
partially funded under the Northern Agricultural Development Project
(Credit 929-TH), and visits were made to other countries with nationally
managed programs. Various Bank reports detailing experiences from such
programs were also shared with Government. Under the new Program, efforts
have been made (a) to link the planning process and the budgetary system; (b)
to institutionalize the procedures by which ministries, departments, provinces
and village interact and define responsibilities; (c) to prioritize program
areas and activities; and most importantly (d) to institutionalize a high
level policy setting body which would provide current and successive
Governments with a legal, organizational and procedural framework for
directing national rural development.
32.       The new Program began in October 1982.  It has been designed to
improve the impact of rural development by targetting funds on poverty areas
where they are most needed, and to improve the procedures and incentives for
1/   The National Rural Development Program is described as the Program
throughout this report.



- 11 -
government agencies and local communities to participate in rural develop-
ment. It also strives to achieve these objectives in a more cost-effectiLve
way by setting criteria and unit cost standards to be used in selecting and
implementing subprogram investments. The Program, which encompasses important
regulatory and procedural reforms, offers the most promising means to date for
addressing problems of rural poverty and unemployment in Thailand, and its
implementation and strengthening are major objectives of both the Thai Govern-
ment and the Bank. Given the newness of the Program, the Bank's cumulative
experience from other national rural development programs, and the Bank's role
in policy dialogue in Thailand, a unique opportunity exists for the Bank to
help the Thai Government put the new Program on a firm footing and to esta-
blish the mechanisms through which weaknesses in the Program can be identified
and improved. The Bank's participation through project preparation has
already supported several improvements, e.g., technical and economic criteria
for selecting investments have been improved and the emphasis given to moni-
toring and evaluation has been greatly increased.
33.       The proposed loan, although only 32% of Project cost, would provide
the means for Bank guidance on all key aspects of the Program, while not
detracting from the prominent government role which is essential to the
success of the Program. It would establish a place and the credibility for
the Bank to assist in formulating and guiding subsequent phases of the
Program, including support for other areas, such as rural health and educa-
tion. Moreover, the investments under the Program should increasingly
influence the priorities and levels of normal budgetary allocations of
technical agencies. The Bank's role in guiding the Program is therefore
expected to impact increasingly on the overall budgetary allocations for the
Ministries of Agriculture, Education, Health and Interior.
Management Framework of the Program
34.       The Program is coordinated by a Cabinet-level National Rural Devel-
opment Committee (NRDC) which is chaired by the Prime Minister.   The NRDC
coordinates the national plans and priorities for rural development and
approves the appropriation of budgetary funds for initiating projects in rural
areas. The new management system enables formalized, senior-level discussions
and negotiations between the Bureau of the Budget and ministries responsible
for rural development (Agriculture, Education, Health and Interior), through
which development targets and budgets are set. The targets are set in terms
of the five-year plan and annual work programs, and are quite specific as to
sectoral objectives, physical location and costs of investments. Funding is
incremental to normal ministerial budgets and is provided generally for one
year only for each subproject; i.e., funds are used only to initiate new
projects in the selected poverty districts. In subsequent years, the techni-
cal ministry responsible is required to make appropriate provision for the
subproject in its normal budget. Also important is the objective that, to the
maximum extent possible, subprogram investments should be self-sustaining.
Therefore, simple, in-kind cost recovery schemes are included in most subpro-
jects to help villagers maintain projects. This contrasts with former pro-
grams whereby ministries developed their own programs with little attention to
operation and maintenance and without knowledge of programs of other
ministries.



- 12 -
35.       Once the annual program has been established, the new management
system is designed to allow individual ministries to retain authority and a
good deal of flexibility over subprogram implementation. It enables the NRDC
to impose a high degree of discipline and accountability without encroaching
on individual ministerial authority. By limiting the role of the NRDC, and
particularly its secretariat (NRDCC), to administration of policy matters and
to coordination, the types of jurisdictional problems encountered in other
nationally managed programs have been largely avoided. In addition, budgetary
appropriations for the Program provide attractive incentives to line agencies
to participate in the Program. Where cooperation between agencies has not
worked well in other programs, decentralization of authority for planning and
implementation has been found to be effective. Under the Thai Program, the
process is still very much "top-down," but regulations permit provincial
authorities to exercise considerable control over line agency programs in
their areas where the necessary skills and staff exist at the provincial
level. This is already occurring in a few of the provinces covered by the
Program and studies would be included under the project to identify ways to
strengthen provincial planning and management capacity. The mechanisms are
therefore in place for decentralization to gradually occur, but implementation
of the Program in its early stages is not dependent on such decentraliza-
tion. Local participation, which has been one of the most important ingre-
dients in other nationally managed programs, has also been given strong
emphasis in the Thai Program. Procedures have been developed and criteria
established to enable local communities to participate actively in the selec-
tion, implementation and management of projects in their area. Details as to
how this works are given in para. 43. Nevertheless, while the mechanisms for
this are in place, considerable evolution of this process will be needed. The
monitoring and evaluation system to be established under the project, together
with special studies and training, would give particular attention to
fostering local participation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       Background.  In the two years the Program has been operating, sub-
program investments have totaled $77 million and some $234 million is included
in the five-year plan for the period 1984 through 1986: $77 million for agri-
culture, $76 million for health, $60 million for infrastructure and community
aid, $10 million for education, and about $11 million for development of a
monitoring and evaluation system, special studies and administration.
Implementation of the program has started well and considerable effort has
been given to identifying and correcting weaknesses in the planning and budget
allocation cycles. A consultant study commissioned by the Program Secretariat
(i.e., NRDCC) and financed under Cr. 929-TH has recently been completed and
has made extensive recommendations for improving subprograms. The proposed
project has been kept simple and flexible in design, recognizing that many
improvements will need to be made as the Program progresses, but based on the
view that such improvements can only be achieved through learning during
implementation. The project therefore seeks to strengthen those areas where
weaknesses currently exist and where future difficulties can be anticipated.



- 13 -
37.        The project was appraised in April 1983 and negotiated in February
1984. The Thai delegation for negotiations was led by Mr. Suwan Pasugswad
(Director of the Loan Policy and Management Division, Ministry of Finance).
Comprehensive project files and technical assistance documents are available
and will be provided to the Government to assist in project implementation.
The Staff Appraisal Report the No. 4761-TH, dated February 29, 1984 is being
circulated separately.
Project Objectives
38.        The objectives of the project would be:
(i) to strengthen the planning, budgeting and management aspects of
the newly instituted National Rural Development Program (NRDP),
in order to develop a more effective mechanism for identifying
local needs, for channeling funds to rural areas, and to
increase the cost-effectiveness of Thailand's rural development
efforts; and
(ii) to alleviate poverty in rural areas through simple projects to
increase food production, basic nutritional and infrastructure
needs, and to provide employment opportunities through 18 types
of "self-help" subprograms of the Program in 286 poverty
districts (40% of country total) spanning 38 of the country's
provinces (51% of total). Some 4 million rural households live
in areas covered by the Program and more than half would
benefit from this first phase project.
Brief Description
39.        The project has three main components (i) strengthening of the
National Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) unit; (ii) support for special
studies needed to complement information coming through the M&E system; and
(iii) investment in 18 types of subprograms as a means to alleviate rural
poverty and to improve on the effectiveness of the Program through implementa-
tion and feedback. Details of each of these components are given below.
40.        Monitoring and Evaluation.  The successful evolution of the Program
will depend very largely on the institutional processes which will allow the
system to continually monitor and evaluate achievements, and to make changes
as appropriate. The development of an effective M&E system is therefore an
integral part of the project and crucial to the Bank's support of the Pro-
gram. USAID would finance some $5 million of technical assistance and opera-
tional support for developing the system, while JICA has already provided some
$2.1 million of computer equipment and accessories for the National M&E unit
which has been established at Thammasat University. Under the project, tech-
nical assistance, software and a limited amount of computer hardware would be
supported to strengthen the integration of the national system with the Bureau
of the Budget M&E system and with individual ministry systems. In focussing
the M&E systems on the information needed by the township, district, province,
Bureau of the Budget and by the NRDC, it is planned that complementary M&E
systems would be strengthened in each of the technical ministries responsible



- 14 -
for subprograms. An assurance was obtained that the Borrower would establish
and maintain a monitoring and evaluation system with the capacity to provide
the NRDC with timely information on the implementation and impact of the
Program in Poverty Areas (Annex III; Section III(a) and Section 3.04 (c)(i)
and (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       Special Studies.  Although development of the M&E system is already
under way, it will take several years before it can provide management with
the full range of timely information needed. Therefore, in this first phase
project, support would be given for studies designed: (i) to provide quick
feedback and recommendations on subprogram implementation; and (ii) to iden-
tify weaknesses in the Program's regulations and procedures which would affect
both the cost-effectiveness of implementation and the longer-term impact of
the Program. UNDP is expected to provide some $0.5 million for the studies,
of which the three described below have been identified as key areas needing
investigation. The UNDP funding also provides for new or follow-up studies to
be determined during implementation of the project. Terms of reference for
all studies would be reviewed by the Bank through the Bank's Special Interest
agreements with UNDP and in accordance with Section 3.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement. The initial studies would:
(i)  identify management and communication skill needs at the
national, provincial, district and village levels; and through
a second-phase study, rationalize and design training programs
in accordance with needs and available resources. Implemen-
tation of the first phase of this would be the responsibility
of the NRDC subcommittee on Manpower Development. The NRDC
subcommittee on provincial planning would play a role in imple-
menting the second phase of the study;
(ii)  analyze various aspects of the administrative procedures,
policy and effectiveness of the National Rural Development
Program as a basis for formulating the rural development
components of the Sixth Five-Year Plan covering the period 1987
to 1991. The secretariat for the Program, would be responsible
for the studies; and
(iii)  review the poverty area subprograms included in the project to
assist the ministerial subcommittees for Rural Development in
the early identification and correction of problems in the
design of subprograms. In view of the importance of these
studies and a need for their early completion, an assurance was
obtained that MOAC and MOI subcommittees for Rural Development
would review their respective subprograms, and by June 30,
1985, make recommendations on (i) ways of improving the
practicability and cost-effectiveness, and (ii) the means to
sustain subprogram benefits (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The studies would be done in conjunction with a
study by the Bureau of the Budget of the recurrent cost
requirements of the Program in order to provide the Bank by
June 30, 1985 with details as to how appropriate budget provi-
sions would be made to provide sufficient recurrent budget for



- 15 -
operation, maintenance and training (Section 4.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
42.       Subprogram Investments.  The project would support the
16 production-oriented subprograms being implemented by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC), and the two infrastructural subprograms
of the Accelerated Rural Development Department (ARD) of the Ministry of
Interior. The subprograms are of two broad categories, i.e., (i) Village-
based schemes wherein the community is involved in the implementation and
management of projects for the general benefit of the community; and
(ii) Farmer participation schemes wherein subprograms are focussed on assis-
ting individual farmers. Specifically, the agricultural subprograms have been
designed to develop fishponds or to promote seabass and cockle production, to
increase rice and other food crop production through use of improved seed,
fertilizers and use of organic wastes to produce compost; to reduce soil
acidity and the spread of salinity; or to develop village woodlots for fire-
wood and building poles. Other subprograms initiate and improve the health
status of backyard livestock, chicken or pig raising. The two infrastructure
subprograms are designed to benefit whole communities by improving village
access through repair and construction of important bridge and culvert
connections, and by improving the availability and quality of water from
village wells and ponds for domestic use and for vegetable production. All
subprograms have undergone testing and standard cost and design criteria have
been established.  While additional subprograms may be added, they would first
require clearance by the NRDC. The inclusion of new subprograms in the Bank-
financed portion of the program would be contingent on a satisfactory review
by the Bank of the costs and criteria to be used in the selection and imple-
mentation of the subprogram (ref. para. 60).
43.       The 18 subprograms constitute a list of investment activities from
which Township Councils can choose those best suited to their needs. Because
the Program is in its early stages and local capacities are limited, local
choices are currently restricted to the nationally approved subprograms. The
Township Council reviews suggestions put forward to it by village development
committees. Both the Township Council and village development committees are
established institutions in Thailand. An important improvement under the
Program is that Township Councils have the ultimate authority in decidirng
(i) which subprograms are put forward for funding consideration, (ii) where to
implement the project within the designated Poverty District, and (iii) who
the local participants would be. Although suggestions for additions or
deletions from the list of subprograms selected can be made by district
government officers, approval must first be obtained from the Township Council
for such modifications. The task of reviewing and coordinating the district
proposals is carried out by the Provincial Development Committees, before
being forwarded to the NRDCC where they are reviewed for consistency with the
Program guidelines. The plans are then forwarded to the ministries and
departments for comment and for inclusion in departmental budget requests. In
the event that a disagreement arises between the province and the line agency
concerned over elimination of a particular subprogram, a procedure exists for
the province to petition the NRDC directly to seek additional funding.



- 16 -
44.       Once the overall budget allocations are approved by Cabinet, the
NRDC approves provincial allocations. The Provincial Development Committee
informs District staff who in turn inform the Township Council. The Township
Council, in consultation with the district government officers and village
development committees, then make the final determination on the location of
subprogram works and on the village groups or individual participants. Work
can then begin immediately.
45.       Costs associated with the 16 production oriented subprograms amount
to about $77 million, or 56% of project base costs, while the two infrastruc-
tural subprograms total about $48 million or 35% of project base costs.
Because of the innovative nature of the program, the Bank-financed subprograms
include substantial support for technical training, totalling some $8.9 mil-
lion or 5% of project cost. Some 24% of the training budget would be spent in
training farmers and village groups, while the balance would be used in
training ministerial staff to strengthen their capability to carry out the
program. Training costs include the production and distribution of pamphlets
on various implementation aspects for each subprogram. A number of pamphlets
have already been prepared but will be revised under the project as experience
is gained during implementation. Other subprogram expenditures would pri-
marily be for civil works $54 million, bridge works $28 million, agricultural
and livestock supplies $34 million, research $6 million, operation and main-
tenance $4 million, government services $7 million and Program management,
monitoring and evaluation $12 million. Individual subprogram costs vary
widely, ranging from less than $50 for vaccination subprograms to about $300
for subprograms designed to initiate improved rice seed production by
individual farmers, up to $28,000 for community schemes such as for village
fish ponds. Bridge works would generally be for lengths of about 20 m and
cost around $43,000. The materials and inputs are procured according to
normal Government procedures, but unlike earlier programs, the Village Council
plays an active role in the procurement process. This has been found to be
very effective in fostering local participation (refer to footnote on page
17).
46.       The technology for each of the subprograms and its applicability for
poverty areas is well-developed for most of the subprograms. For those where
it is less well-developed e.g., village woodlots and saline soil improvement,
the rate of implementation would be slower and particular attention would be
given at the time annual budgets are approved to the local capacity of the
technical departments concerned. Important features for each subprogram are
the criteria and standard costs which have been established to guide in the
selection, implementation and management of subprograms. The criteria also
provide a basis for monitoring the cost-effectiveness of the subprograms.
Also, various in-kind, cost recovery mechanisms are incorporated to encourage
the spread of subprogram benefits. Levels of cost recovery range from less
than 20% to 100% depending on the type of subprogram, e.g., farmers receiving
a buffalo must return the first calf and later the mother after the second
calf is a year old. Similar schemes exist for subprograms which develop
backyard pig production. Subprograms which promote improved rice and other
upland crop production include provisions for farmers to return a proportion
of their incremental production in the first year to the Village Council,
either for distribution as food or in the form of improved seed to other



- 17 -
villagers. For fishponds, an effective system is operating whereby a limited
number of fishing licenses are sold to people from outside the village and
which permit fishing on certain days only. Funds raised from the sale oE
licenses are used to pay for the maintenance of the community fishpond. The
cost recovery schemes are designed to help communities sustain activities,
rather than to generate revenues for the Government. This is appropriate for
these poverty areas and in the short term the only practical form of cost
recovery. Over the longer term the Program would lead to greater economic
activity in rural areas and thereby expand the tax base.
Project Implementation
47.       The project would be implemented through the established organiza-
tional framework of the National Rural Development Program. The National
Rural Development Coordinating Center (NRDCC) institutionally located within
the Government's central planning body, NESDB, would coordinate the project
implementation in its capacity as Secretariat for the National Rural Develop-
ment Committee (NRDC). The ministries and their individual departments would
be responsible, together with provincial staff, for the day-to-day imple-
mentation of the subprograms. In order to promote a balanced perspective of
the Program, as well as coordination between cofinanced components of this and
subsequent phases of the program, the NRDCC would annually host an implementa-
tion review meeting for the project, to which all cofinanciers and government
agencies concerned would be invited and apprised of the progress in imple-
menting the Program and on the impact of the program (Annex III, Section
III(c) and Section 3.04(c)(iii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost
48.       Total project costs are estimated at $157.2 million (inclusive of
taxes and duties of about $5.5 million) of which $31.5 million or 20%
represents foreign exchange requirements. Project costs are based on unit
prices in Thailand indexed to the first quarter of 1984. Because the project
supports a time-slice of an ongoing program involving large numbers of small
project activities, considerjyle flexibility exists for matching available
funds with the work program.    Therefore no allowance was made for physical
contingencies. Price contingencies were included and amount to $20.9 million
or 15% of base costs, assuming the following rates of price increase for the
years 1984, 1985 and 1986, respectively, viz. local costs - 6.5%, 6.0% and
6.0% and for foreign costs - 7.5%, 7.0% and 6.0%.
2/   Under the Program, communities are encouraged to contribute labor free of
charge, either to make up for shortages of funds, or to enlarge the
budgeted subprogram works. Based on experiences in the first 2 years of
the program, it is estimated that villages may contribute up to 10% of
costs for labor intensive subprograms. This village-participation will
be further encouraged during the project, both to promote villagers'
sense of involvement and to save cost.



- 18 -
Financing
49.       The financing plan provides for a Bank loan of $50 million including
a capitalized front-end fee of $0.1 million. The proposed cofinancing would
be as follow: IBRD $50 million (31.8%); USAID $5.0 million (3.2%); JICA $2.1
million (1.3%); UNDP $0.5 million (0.3%) and Government $99.7 million
(63.4%). The proposed external financing, totalling $57.6 million (or 38% of
project cost excluding taxes and duties), would cover the latter three years
of the current five-year plan period and would correspond to about 19% financ-
ing of the total Program expenditures for the Five-Year Plan period (1982 to
1986).
Procurement
50.       Most of the procurement under the project would be undertaken by
District Officers in conjunction with procurement committees of Township
Councils. Because of the small size, varied timing and countrywide dispersion
of the various subprojects, competitive bidding in accordance with local
procedures which are acceptable to the Bank would be used for such goods and
services (Section 2.03 of draft Loan Agreement). The scope for bulk
purchasing would be limited primarily to purchases of livestock and
construction materials. Even so, the size and nature of such bulk purchases
would be unattractive to foreign firms not represented in Thailand.
Disbursements
51.       The loan would be disbursed on the basis of Statements of Expendi-
tures. Since loan funds would be disbursed against program expenditures which
are budgeted on an annual basis and normally fully committed each year, the
Bank's disbursement profile would not be appropriate. Instead loan disburse-
ments would be closely related to annual budget appropriations for the
Program. Project expenditures are based on the last three years of the
Program for the current Five-Year Plan (October 1, 1983 to September 30,
1986), and disbursements would be made at the level of 50% of expenditures
over about 2.5 years, i.e., between loan signing and the end of the Plan
period.
52.       In order to assist the project implementation and to alleviate the
Borrower's internal budget constraints, a Special Account "Revolving Fund"
would be established from which elegible expenditures under the project could
be financed, and which would correspond to estimated expenditures during each
of the Borrower's trimester budget periods (4 months). The Special Account
would be established as a condition of effectiveness (Annex III,
Section III(d) and Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). An initial dis-
bursement of $5 million would be made from the Bank Loan Account to the
Special Account and the account would be replenished up to a maximum of
$5 million upon request of the Borrower, supported by Statements of
Expenditures satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 4 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Loan closing would be June 30, 1988.



- 19 -
Accounts and Audit
53.       The project would utilize normal government accounting procedures
for all expenditures under the Program.   Regional offices of the Auditor
General's Department routinely audit the accounts of the Provincial Treasurer,
and also conduct performance audits from time to time on various subpro-
grams. The Borrower would annually audit project accounts and the operations
of the Special Account and would submit such audit reports to the Bank not
later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02(c) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
54.       This is expected to be the first phase of Bank support for the
Program and in analyzing the financial, social and economic impact, it must be
borne in mind that the primary objective is to tackle rural poverty through
better targeting and more cost-effective use of resources. Given the resource
poor nature of rainfed areas in which, ipso facto the rural poor are most con-
centrated, it must be expected that most production packages will give only
marginal returns. Risks associated with crop intensification in resource-
poor areas need to be buffered by an increase in off-farm employment. There-
fore, although investments would be channeled as far as possible into
productive activities, some aspects of the Program should be seen as a holding
operation through which basic needs are provided and employment generated to
reduce the growing migration to urban areas, i.e., until such time as growth
in employment outside of agriculture begins to narrow the gap between labor
availability and employment opportunities.
Benefits:
55.       The projected benefits from the project would come from:
(a) a strengthened national management system for rural development. The
impact of this new system, measurable in terms of growth and equity
improvements in rural areas, will lead to substantial savings both
by increasing the complementarity of development programs through
better coordination, and by improving cost-effectiveness through
better targeting of programs, less leakage of funds to nonprogram
activities, and through increased management efficiency;
(b) increased agricultural product - 1 A g to improved food and
nutritional status in poor rural areas. Production increases would
be achieved through improvements in agricultural practices and
inputs, and through projects to increase livestock and fisheries
production. The major output would be paddy, the staple food in
Thailand and the major subsistence crop in poor areas. Other
important products, particularly for nutritional purposes, would be
beans, sesame, fruit, upland crops such as maize, animal products,
poultry and fish. Over the longer term, incremental production
would come through increased cropping intensity and through intro-
duction of higher-value crops in areas where potential exists. This
would be supported by measures to reduce the spread of salinity and



- 20 -
soil erosion and to overcome soil acidity problems by application of
marl and through the production and use of compost, primarily on
vegetable plots. Fish production would be enhanced by rehabilita-
tion and new construction of community ponds and through improved
culture techniques for sea bass and cockle raising. Greater live-
stock productivity and a larger animal population would result from
improved disease control, extension of AI and through subprograms to
promote and to disburse livestock for backyard production. The
value of major annual incremental production at full development in
1995 economic farmgate prices would total about US$80 million;
(c) generation of employment, in the order of 160,000 manyears annually,
leading directly to increased incomes and reduced underemployment
and indirectly to stimulation of the rural economy and reduced
seasonal migration. While employment would be generated directly in
onfarm activities and in public works, increased agricultural
production and rural income would result in greater nonfarm economic
activity, and thus further growth in employment in rural areas;
(d) improved access to poor areas through the construction and
rehabilitation of bridges, further stimulating local economic growth
and facilitating the provision of improved medical, educational and
social services. The latter services, although not directly funded
by this first-phase Bank project, are an integral part of the
Program and would be run in conjunction with the Bank-supported
project.
56.       Since a primary objective of the project would be to improve the
standard of living and general well-being of the large section of the
population entrapped in resource-poor rural areas through provision of basic
needs, a number of the benefits tend to be more qualitative in nature. Four
such subprogram components would include subprograms of food production for
nutrition, improvement of livestock health, prevention of soil erosion and
improvement of village water quality and use. However, the project investment
would be justified in terms of the resulting incremental production from the
other 14 subprograms. An economic rate of return of 12.4% for these
subprograms was obtained. This represents 68% of the Bank-financed project
components, or 54% of total project cost. The ERR's for individual
subprograms range from 10% to 17% with ERR's for 4 of the subprograms being
between 10 and 12%. Within subprograms, considerable variability in rates of
return can be expected depending on the levels of local skills and
resources. The overall ERR of 12.4% represents the weighted average.
Although this ERR is low, it must be considered as satisfactory for an
investment in resource poor areas where there are very limited alternative
investment opportunities, and where growing unemployment and poverty can be
expected to create increasingly serious social problems and migration to
already overcrowded urban areas.
57.       Social Impact and the Role of Women.  A basic feature of the Program
is the focus on local-level participation in the selection and implementation
of subprograms. Subprograms designed for community participation would help
foster the spirit of government interest and community responsibility in local



- 21 -
development at the district, township and village level. In Thailand, women
play an active role in various groups within the township and village frame-
work. In particular, groups dealing with nutritional improvement, primary
health care, drinking water and sanitation are organized primarily by women.
The Program would depend very heavily on such groups, and considerable train-
ing is provided in the various subprograms to strengthen their role. Sub-
programs would also directly benefit the poorest of villages through the
hiring of local labor and through the access of all community members to
community products and facilities. The project would, however, lead to
considerable social change, particularly in the more isolated areas which have
received little sustained assistance from government programs in the past.
Not all social changes will be desirable and special studies to be included
under the project would attempt to identify such changes and to make
appropriate recommendations to the NRDC and to the implementing agencies.
58.       Impact on the Environment.  The Program provides the mechanism for
gradual, but continuing improvements in the management of the environment,
particularly in the most resource-poor areas of Thailand. Improved cultiva-
tion techniques would, for example, lead to more effective use of organic
wastes to improve fertility. Efforts would be made to reduce the spread of
salinity and more land would be made arable through use of lime. Water
resources would be better managed and made more productive and trees would be
grown for firewood. Other subprograms, not included in this first-phase
project, but important to the overall Program, such as health and sanitation
subprograms, would greatly reduce the incidence of disease and, together with
more extensive training and basic education, pave the way for greater
participation by local inhabitants in improving their own environment.
Risks
59.       The Program represents a very ambitious undertaking for
Government. The policies, objectives and procedures were developed after
extensive negotiations over a period of some three years among ministries and
at all levels of the Government, and are now embodied in legislation and
established procedures. The Program was largely developed by Thai authorities
with the Bank's assistance in funding studies to develop criteria for
selecting poverty areas and for developing subprogram investment packages.
There was also considerable interchange of the Bank's experiences from other
nationally managed programs, and Thai authorities visited some of those other
programs. The design, therefore, is sensitive to the special characteristics
of the Thai bureaucracy and culture. Clearly, however, there is a wide range
of improvements which could be made. The Bank's support for the program in
this early phase is predicated on the view that further development of the
Program can best be achieved by learning through implementation. The special
studies and strengthening of the monitoring evaluation system under the
project would reduce the risks in implementating the project.
60.       A primary requirement for the success of the Program will be
continued high-level political commitment. This commitment must continue to
be actively expressed in a way that maintains the Program's focus and encour-
ages similar commitment at all levels of the Government and in the rural
areas. The Bank, by supporting the Program, would add important impetus at



- 22 -
this early and critical stage and would help focus on ways to continually
improve the impact of the Program. An assurance was obtained that the
Borrower would maintain the Program as its principal mechanism for developing
rural areas, and would submit to the Bank any proposed policy, procedural or
new subprogram change which would alter the objective, scope and costs of the
Program (Annex III; Section III(b) and Sections 1.02 (f and g), 3.01 and
Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       Another concern relates to the capacity of MOAC and MOI (ARD) to
implement the project. These ministries have received substantial technical
assistance over the past five years, both from the Bank and from other multi-
lateral and bilateral sources, but a number of administrative and technical
weaknesses persist. Moreover, there is a risk that the capacity of these
ministries will be further constrained as departments attempt to give priority
to the Program in accordance with government policy, while at the same time
resisting any cutback in their other activities. To minimize this, introduc-
tion of Program Budgeting will be crucial to ensure greater prioritization of
programs and budgets at the ministerial level, and this is already being acted
on as a requirement of the Second Structural Adjustment Loan to Thailand (Loan
2256-TH). These measures would help to ensure timely provision of necessary
resources for implementation.
62.       Among the risks that will affect implementation of somewhat smaller
elements of the Program, the most important relate to the soundness of the
technological packages being promoted and to the capacity of various
ministries to provide adequate support services. For agricultural subpro-
grams, it is the technology package itself that is of greatest concern,
whereas for the infrastructure it is the capacity of supporting services which
is the more lacking. While the guidelines used in preparing agricultural sub-
programs are sound, and the technology itself suitable, improvements are
needed to make the packages more attractive to farmers by reducing the risk
element and by improving the means by which the technology can be sustained
after the initial help through the Program. Consultant studies are included
early in the project to assist in refining the agricultural subprograms, but
continued efforts will be needed by the responsible departments to refine
subprograms and to focus on further adapting subprograms to different ecologi-
cal climes. A project to further strengthen the planning management and
technical capacity of the MOAC has also recently been appraised in accordance
with the Bank's strategy to maintain the complementarity between the Program
and the technical capacity of the ministries responsible for rural
development.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Features of the Loan Agreement which are
referred to in the text are listed in Section III of Annex III. A condition
of effectiveness would be the establishment of the Special Account on terms



- 23 -
and conditions acceptable to the Bank (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 29, 1984
Washingtotn, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                        Page 1 of 5
TEAILAND                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960/b      1970/   ESTIMATE/b          ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                 514.0        514.0        514.0
AGRICULTURAL                          129.5        141.2        182.8
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     110.0        250.0        770.0               1028.6                    2088.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         63.0        216.0        370.0               792.8                     1407.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   27039.0        36431.0      47966.0
URBAN POPULATION (8 OF TOTAL)          12.5         13.2         14.6                32.9                       b5.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 68.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                  108.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 104.                         52.6         70.9         91.3               260.7                       35.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND              208.8        258.1        256.9              1696.5                       93.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            44.7         46.2         41.2                39.4                       40.1
15-64 YRS                            52.6         50.8         55.7                57.2                       55.8
65 AND ABOVE                          2.7          3.0          3.1                 3.3                        4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                 2.7          3.0          2.5                 2.3                        2.3
URBAN                                 4.5          3.5          3.4                 3.9                        3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           43.6         39.7         29.5                31.3                       31.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           14.9         10.8          7.6                 9.6                        8.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.1          2.8          1.9                 2.0                        2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..        202.9/c    1063.3
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..          7.6         59.0                46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          92.0        100.0        137.0               125.2                      113.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         99.0        101.0        104.0               114.2                      111.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             45.0         49.0         47.0                57.9                       67.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           11.0         14.0         15.0/d              14.1                       34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            13.3          7.9          4.3                 7.6                        5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          52.3         57.9         63.1                60.2                       64.6
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         103.0         74.6         53.1                68.1                       62.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                             17.0         22.0/e              37.1                       64.8
URBAN                                  ..         60.0         49.07e              54.8                       77.8
RURAL                                  ..         10.0         12.0/e              26.4                       44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         17.0         40.0/f              41.4                       54.6
URBAN                                  ..         65.0         58.0/f              47.5                       69.8
RURAL                                   ..         8.0         36.0/f              33.4                       29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             7950.0       8450.0       7180.0              7771.9                     1776.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              4860.0/g    7050.0        2420.0              2462.6                     1012.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1380.0        900.0        820.0/e            1047.2                      477.0
URBAN                               270.0/g      180.0        530.07W             651.1                      667.5
RURAL                             21530.07W   13880.0        1280.c7;o           2591.9                     1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         31.0         44.8/e              27.0                       27.2
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.5/g        5.8          5.5/e
URBAN                                 5.J73j       5.8          5.57*e
RURAL                                 5.6/g        5.8          5.5/ae
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..2.4/e
URBAN                                  ..           ..          2.27..
RURAL                                  ..           ..         2f.4/e
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..         18.9
URBAN                                  ..         86.1
RURAL                                   ..         9.0
-------------------- - ------------------------------------------ -------- ____   ___- _________- ______-_- _________-_- __- _-_-_ _



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                        Page 2 of 5
THAILAND                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
HOST                        (HOST RECENT ESTIHATE) /b
196lb bRECENT  lb          MIDDLE INCOMlE            MIDDLE INCOME
1970-  ESTIMATE-           ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA & CARIB
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     83.0         83.0         96.0               101.2                      105.0
MALE                     88.0         86.0           ..                106.0                     106.3
FEMALE                    79.0        79.0           ..                 97.5                     103.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     13.0         17.0         29.0                44.9                       40.0
HALE                     16.0         20.0           ..                 50.0                      38.6
FEMALE                   10.0         15.0           ..                44.6                       41.2
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)            19.1         22.3         15.5                 18.5                      34.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              36.0         35.0         24.0                32.7                       30.7
SECONDARY                            20.0         16.0         23.0/d              23.4                       16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                67.7         78.6         86.0                72.9                       79.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             1.8          5.1          6.3/e               9.7                       45.6
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            6.0         76.2        125.9               113.7                      228.2
TV RECEIVERS/TilOUSAND POP              2.2           6.6        17.3                 50.1                     108.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               10.6         20.5         42.3                54.0                       64.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..         1.8/h         ..                 3.4                        2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           13860.0      16987.0      23037.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     48.4         46.8         45.9                33.b                       24.u
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                84.0         80.0         76.0                50.9                       31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    4.0          6.0          9.0                19.2                       23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                51.3         46.6         48.0                38.6                       31.3
MALE                                 52.7         49.3         51.7                50.7                       49.8
FEMALE                               49.8         43.9         44.3                26.6                       14.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          1.1          0.9                 1.1                         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             21.8/R       23.8/i       23.0Je              22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            50.97?       49.77?       49 .87              48.0
LOWEST 20% OF liOUSEHOLDS             6.27g        6.17?        5.67T               6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             14.9j        15.97?       15.27               15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..          ..        159.0/i             194.5                      289.8
RURAL                                   ..          ..        106.0t              155.0                      184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        II1.O/              17n.O                      519.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..        110 .07             164.8                      372.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOtE LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         15.Ofl              24.4
RURAL                                                          34.017 _            41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  Government program only; Id 1977; /e 1976; /f 1975; jg 1962; /b 1973; /i 1968; /j 1978.
May 1983



ANNEX I
- 26 -                                                                                 Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL IN'DICATOgS
Idutes:  Ail touh tie dat  are draso ftre  soures genera1, judged the most ouhrtatead reliable, It should also he outed that thy may sot haI..tee.at.oaly
com parable becus  otIelak of st-dard Led de finistoos ad concpts used by diffeeeot comrisi  co.llectig the dare.  The data are, *oneheleas, useful to
dosceibe ordera o  f mgoicude, ldicoe  treods, ucd charac tori. tee  etao o.Jor diff-ereos  be toots roustrit..
The,eer         rusae()tesm   coco-try group of sit subject  -ootry atd (2) acco...try getup oith momehat bigh.,aerge  ioose ties she teustey ge-p of she
eubjrn       I noose   lecot fu H"igh incom" Oil fop--or" group uSer  "Siddle Ioom ..        arN.th afi-f acdeniddIlEefat" Is chose  because of actge    uie-ousrl
Ifotem.  toheb  -efertt  group data th.  oeragmu art ppultict seightr           LI atetic seas      Ior _ac  ind icator assoo  otiy thee maJority of she  toutrie  Es.
group hmdata foe ebat Sodicutu.  Since the  usrg           -o-outIes cog the indiLtor  depetds to cth a-ailatI                     fdata aod I  sot u-ita.-, casitut be
etrt Id reutg a--ege  of IIe icdic-turoot              7r hese -o-rge  are ocip. useful to..opar lg the n-1ue of use iditratu  at a time a-an  tha conryed
ref-rete gr-upo.
ARti (thuosad uq.kn.)                                                                                Ppltop fraca-Popltatt- divided by.tmber o,f practiotg
TtI- Tost. urac  area cu-prislng laud area an d tiut.doater; 1960,                                phystobam    quited  fro    aa       _ica  mubola.tuinermy level
1970 asd 1980 data.                                                                              Popolatics par wluirag Parses- Pipolattom  dinided by ouber of PmtIog
Agriculturl1 - Efatloa        fegoluaLmesa ced tesporarily or p..ea.e.tp                             m~ie sod femalegraduate  -..rme .. aistsnat mse,pactasoee
Ioe crops, pastures,  akt ad kihec gardeusI it.s SIte tall; 1960,                                  coraitg         . ucltre. 
1970 and 19Sf data.                                                                              PmroI.iato. e o.     ia   ed-toa.uba,ndral-Ppatm(oa,
eat Iad  url) iotdrd by the trees peutie number of hospitl1 bdla
iflP fig CAPITA (US$) - GNP pet capite estimates as cur-etc nrkt price,                                 u-ilable Is pbhiit uod psio-te gnRal- aed apatiated hampisel asd
calulte1d bp, sam  couer.. I.ttbod as World took AsSes (19)9-01 haalal;                            rPaiiaioetr. omptl   r   aelsms e psmamosy mtffsd
1960,190,  o        idtc..h  atlAstctpyml.tu.  fEatbbiemeets pro-tdlg pricipsliy r,intdial
careers so  imolded.  gRal. hopittale, hamste, tstade health seal
ENERGY CONSUMSPTION PEt COPITS - OtoA-    uppereor c-osuptims of comeo:di.at cetr  mtpratu t                                                 mt.ffd by a physicist (bus by a medical
primary energy )uladlgle  yetmlu                      .as.a  ga  atd hydra-, tacLea                  asoitstas,  utee, midwife,et.  eht   ffer ia-pafiestaadaLi.. sad
aed gsotheeal eltle ete Iy)ihioRas   fca                 qisesprcpita;                               prrd  almte   oge of medical f.arliste.  Pet mtesimLicl.  pepsass
1960, 1070, ard 19go data.                                                                           urban hospitala include WHO. prineipsi/geseral heitals, and Lrurl
hoe~pitato, local orrural SePirals and medical aed maseniy usete.-
POPULATION AN1 VITAL. STATISTICS                                                                        Specialleed buapital  are incloded etly under tota..
Total Popolanlot. ttd-Ta.. (thousands) - Ai of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1991                        adisospr"eilRd-oa   obero  admisefana t. or discharges
data.                                                                  (ten hospitals~~~~~~~~~1 dioided by ghe sobeIf bds.
ditba  Ppolasiot (peret o.  f ctctl) - Rutic of urhem to total pepu1latits;                                                                      bI
dIfferent dfsiinso  orb. aaeas nay affact ...mpaahiiity of data                                HOUSING
mogtosee; 96,1900, a-d 1081 data.                                                              Aveae,    isofHuehl   p:retos  arh,eushad-  et lb,,ha, eel  tea
Potoa.tias yecjecl_a-A houshold cMait  Ifagru f                                                                                               i ditsael  sh   hreie     qsse
Pepu.iasio  ts Psar 2000 - Corret pupulasio- projeotir  ev  hed 00161ad there saio  ees   A betder meledges say or way stbe included Is
sotolpopuatio  by  ge mdseansiemrltysofetil ity                                           the husehld.(r  tttste   pareas
lnlasoiglifr  -upect-y at birth   inceas          lih cu..tory's Per                    of per..ta per roo  it ali urhe, asd rualetupadeatetloa
cpita. tooe -en   and fem... 1life empectacy etubiltiuig at 77.0                                deelnaWeII   .. ti-ely.  Dwelings smol.adenapsaersrcu    and
years   Thu purserseta foe frestllty  -eat  also hens theel_eo                                    nocpied parse.
aeuigdecline io fertilityactordiog to imoose lre-Iad pott lyAoan  tErotric in   p p..ce.s of dawlltam)   tetl, aebas,,adrua
p.lattIn  perfuIa.c....Ec .a...catrp le theoass.igud one of ibh.e tIme                           Cusnentiom   dsellingI    iS  lcriaph  lOtth  quret   s    tStag
cobutlius of nurtality and tercility Itered  foe P pt    icuc  puoes.                        of  tttl, uban, amd rurl1 domllisgaer-patirely.
St..t...ary Puoulattot - In  at ..us.o... ..pulati-o there Is to gr_th
ain.. the birtb rate is rqaal no the dean trael * ad slam the age                           tIOCATION
stutuereta.Inscntnt.i   s  u ndrony a.fter festtlliyratea                                  Adjustd tEruIl-et Oetioa
decliontocharpl.c.c.          lnl  fct5netrpeIdctcc rae, sttPetary ubo  -  ua,mle and fte.ae.-SGI... total, male and femais
eahgnrt I foan repte   lEscf es..atly.  The statio...sy                                   erelets ofal  age  at the primary  ese  aaprenae  ofrepti-e
opalaIo sass ea  a   mt             h,0  O  hauls of thu projecced chura-cte-                     petary achcul-age p           .p.a.t; noIelly  tulodeschitidgns age  6-li
.1t to  of the popo  Iu,, in the year D000, sod the tar  of d-cit- of                              yearnhut adjusted toe differet. lntsm            Ieeryeaatt   e
fertIJ"cytaetcrelplasot  level,    .                                                               cosee  nt_coeslouoio   nolen   m   aed  105 perteat
lest:usasicoay popaluios so r-achbd - The pea  then sftoay                                            tr  scarpopils are belta or alon  tie offical1 -ch-1  r
populettot sew_ tIlh bee  bu.~hd.                                                                Srcndr  ucol        _ - tt, melt aed fast  - femput.d as    -e  ....1 nocay
Populottos Ow-aty                                                                                      educ-tu -req toes at least fu  prao  appeare  prieaey iaecis
Pee an. ha. - Mld-yearP poplatio  pr  equat..e kllumetse )lO  iocre)If                               provdes Re.eral, notaional, or te.acir tainiag -L. imarosis  III
tctl1 area; 1960, 19700,ad IPSO da ta.                                                             popiloos-alyp of 12 to 10 Years of age;-co.resycde c.          o r  are
Per so. be..sriu    Inr    ad - Canpu-d aa aton  for ogri.tcunl isod                                 gamerolly ..ooloded.
ol;1960, 1970 cod IPSO dust.OVcatiota    ..rcioat  (pr,eet of secodary) - Patatienl institutiaus
ytpulatiot Age  tr_ctec(p.leeot  - Childeno )0-14 yeats), omkellg-age (15-                          inclde terbltel,''  _ndasetal  or otherP tgRaws shih operate it,deped-
64 per),cd eacird  161 Ye.r. and coe. a  p--ccgea of eid-par                                       totly or us depart.eot  oF otto-darylmttioa
Populattoc; 1960, 1970, and 198  data.                                                           Pupil-touche  ratIo - Petay,ad        "ecdey - Total          d.t as .smeeoled is
Po1tul-tc  iroethl Ratw  (orrst-t) -  uta1 - Annual gruth tense If tona1lind-                        prmrIn-ntnay               lenl  dtnided by  obers at teachers Is the tee-
Y_roultiifor 1590-60, 1960-70S..ad 1970-81.                                                        t-pudtig level.
Pupoa.tiow  G-hus Oats (p.necat) - orban - dA`oa  geoti Leases of urban                            Molt lireac  rat  IE r -ct) - Litertaeadots  (site ti read end  itrie)a
pupulati..s Ior 1910-60, 1960-700  and  970-SlI,t        ar h-dIfaP perc_Stae if total  adlt pupulin aged 10 yare end iner.
yerpptut   960,  9570, ad 1981 dan.CtNSRSPTtOt
EtudetahDtlottcadl-otAI l dastin poe  cousatd of old-year                                          psengr   ae  petiuad onylotlu"               -Paegreaepieam
population; 1960, 190   n   91  aaae tui.n  lees than eight Per.oss  .ebie 1s ..alao.. h-sess  end
irons Itroendantion Ret t-Ontg    ome   fdegtr   a...a  till bear In                                 mu ."ur  nebicla.fI   di
be   oml  erdnIceI peetnd  Ithsi Peyetaca  present . ag-pecft                                    Radio teetoas  fyme thousad papolatiot) - All typee ofettvrforaa
fertility  Letes; usuallyfi e-yae.  a-reagna neding iv 1960, 1970, and                             broadcasIts to geore   uliI      eIhesr   f pepalltita  -sludean
1981.                                                                                              1lensdecine          -somatn  aId In yeses sIesreisea Ioof radio
PuatlY Py-astg -Atp..n  anua  (thou...Audn  -  en-l somber of acepos                                  ef   ast  nf-et; dnta fur recet   ara maY so  be coparable, mists mess
of  "tthtoso  dnie        Inn   _cmpiors ofcel          family PIla..iog                         countrie  baboished IiLt...mig.
Program                                                                                          TV teeiee  (rr shoomand pplto)-~TV e-i-ers fine bleedit t
Family planntug -Tsss (percn  of married unmet) - Frellfa...  If marlt.d                             geea  public per th.uso   pnalt;enldes usine...ed TV  ...einerm
noses of thild-hearIng age  11)-iA  yers h.b oa  bilth-c-nc  de-toe  to                            tnc...ntrleuaod inyear  c     e-      ssu        If TV sans aa Is effert.
alt marrId e...  In san  age grou..p.                                                           Ntuoupape  Cirt.mlatto  (per,thousad ereno)- Sheen thean-rag
FOOD MDc NUTRITION'                                                                                     cIt_ult ic of 'dilyS stral i_treut nespapet", drfiaed  a a periodical
loden of Foo_d Pe-du- - pet Capint 11969-71=100)-    aufPer cpi"f                                     pabllcatito  denoted primarily cc recoding geme.ral nes .  Is is tansider-d
anulpouto If all fuod t       -mndtes.  peuc Innldea see  co.d                           tc be "dailyn  if it aPPears as lease f.tr tiesa  mb
fod sod is on ualndar Year bees   C.-nditisa tuner primary god  (e.g.                            Cinema Annual Antend...e IIe Catita Let tear- Bsed en she somber at
ugrati.tated of sugar) otith are sdible and con tain ntrieota  (e.g.                         niche-  acd doting the Peer, itlidiugamneost  driv-to. cai-a  sad
coffee and Isa ar  e              Alde) ggrtgate prIdottion of_at  nosry Is                        wobilemotti-
base  o  netoacorage pendace  price atights; 1961-h5, 1900, and 1981
data                                                                                          19cR FORCE
Pee ..Pit. autly of talurite (  ..pe-tut  of  snuemmets I - Computed feo                           TOtal Labo  Farce  -nouand)- tusmiayative perass, inclding armd
eteegy equinlent of met tned soppille aneilubiw   1 inco tso   Per capIta P'r                      fortes and uwenpiyyad ban eoluding hoas-tem,  tudeta, et.,' cusig
day.  Available. supplies c          dpseOnestic produ-iom, imports lass                           npaputIc.  f all ages.  Defittiess to  -arleo   _mustriuae  se .t
ompoLLa, an   hanges in u-oc.   et supplies aolude animal feed, aende,                             coparable; 1960. 1970 and 1991 data,
qomtitie  used it fcud pem--sing  und tosses in dituribotion.                                      Pemale (te-cets  - final  -ee  fte-n as perteatage of tssa1 labor ferre,
asueeet  t.ee  eati-tatd by PA0 bused noI hatlgclunafroml                                     Agriclture (perr.entl - b.Is   faran In fawing, farestey, batting swd
aet ity god hsalth t-nideringesILemrtts  snmptrae  bcd  teIghts,                                    fsboga  peunt age of statl Labor  mete', 196R, 1970 aM1981 data,
ageiand set disttthotian  of popului.n.an  elletn '1  p-ebro   far masse                           Imdu5sty I perot) - Laeor force is awing, tt...nrutmi"n,=mssufta"Ing
at inomehol  level; l9St-65. 197t and 1980 data,                                                     and sLesicity, eatr ad gase   p-rnstga of etat. laha- farce; D9h5,
fernsrlna uurmlv of pettein (seams per day) - Prtescosnto  per capita                                  1970 and 1981 data.
net. supp,ly of fmtdper .day,  Ret supply o  ftod ia definedeabov.                             fPattiafn Dte(rct)-salml.adfmle-Pttpaisw
eqIteetate  l  cutrirs estblished by OtDA pru-ide tot ninmo                                       atityea.tauaeenompa.teda   sutl,sae,an  female lahee furtea
allos...a  of 60 grass of tonal prteIn per day  od 20 gina of anmladIecee   f Ltota, ml  n  female pep1leion of all agnarspe-titely;
par    rui,o   hin   10gas         ahud he attes  pcetis           ea19019,ad191at.These : arehasd'on ILo's prteia tinrse
stawdarda. art lower stu theme of 70 gramsof ..ctal pro to aod 001 ge..                            tefleoingeg-eatufe of the papaltifns, and  .eng sine trend,A
of animal protein an aavrg  foenr   mariad, proposed by PAdito the                                 fen eafimatra are from   aridna5 seamen
T.hirdDedyndRny   91-I   90ad   1950 da.tae.                      pl    ff.tooncTeednY tSie - gaR.                                      f   pltn   ne   Sad6   n   nrs
Perostr  tenei  nply  rmaiu   n  cnlse -Prut   Iosplyo                    d                       the total labor forte,
derived fro ami.aLa aM pu1.a.na 9togm Per duy; 1961-65, 1070 and 19077
daa                                                                                          INCOME DItTRIaBUTION
Childlas  1-4  leas.h Ds(Per ninusd) -               -Atna  deashu pet sh-usad Sn                  Pecmg   f tomat  Inoe_hshIt               rs  kaiAd) - R.-ni-d by etches t I
aga gcup Ii ytan, scchilan  10this  ge   ..roP;Ifoe anet deneloping                    percent,   ne D  prcet, pou               0,D por-tet, and peorrt 40 percent of
c-nlies daIta demed tens life  tablet; 1960, 197i and 1981 data.                                   h-usholda.
goALTH                                                                                            poVEoTY TanGnT GiOceS
iE tpensanc..yIt girth I feera) -Onstage tombsr of yeats of liferalng                           ThflI3tfll     0(iseg         re  -nfy approasnateaa        Ife  a  pto-ety 1enela, an
atbirth; 1960, 1970 and 1981 das.                                                                sinmid be isjearp-erSd With  aniderable catio..
blastL Msteaisy ants (pr  thousand) -;anua  drathb  nfq infots  ne  cootsswasd ahnaePvryIcoelvl(8                                                          rcs)-ohtad. rurl-
yeas of age  e      u dln    irtla; 1960, 1900 an   91dt.bncepvry  noelvli                                                                            theeicm   re   eo    hc       Iua
Ancems of Safe W-sre (portet nf pocolutioo  - total. Irban, nnd norL -1otiimly  d awde  plus wamast el nor-fond reoairnc-n   us not
saner sply (includan tencted surfoce otferaor  ntrate  but                                       tstima_d telatinsPvryIcm  Levl   pllre  -ain) -orb-nuod raL.L -
uonnssioted outer  -uh a   isfo    rtecedbesos  springs,,and                                      uRs1 relative p-1ry  noe    e  ia ou-sie  of averge percapita
saieeell)s  pere..tenega hf ir rselo  pouaits.   nanpersonal moose of the cootty.  febam  leve  ts derio_  tram  thtruesi
urba  arepubli   I tooti  or ac-dpcs  Ic...sed no  mute than  00`0 assrt                            -o1 Wtin    djttm...t fne higher toss nf living to  rbeearas
from  a hous  nay be ....aidennd as ebeing  ecin r......hir a--es   If that                      HestIMstdPtl t   no  abanatetPoert  noelvl(ecn)-ra
huose,. In rura  areas r-easoaleaos   -nud.imply,tha,tsho  .. boaeitr urad fatal-ferto  ppltm    ubanan   url   Ib yr                                                    ucut
nehr   f the hn-shnd do ott h.pe t  spend    isproportIonat  elput of
tieday in fetching the fssily'a -tatr seeds.
rra,l -las   fpol  (tonal,  r.Io, and rural) served' hy rora
maY incode the c11-otis u-d diapfo.ci, uith mceth-out  ..tretmnt  It                                                                    Iccoic ad SoIalDnDintato
humn ecrea ad ost-mtrr byne.te-butoaptsto  the ns If pitlnomcOtyi    n  P'ojectno   lepsetw..nt
priotra and s.inlar                                                                                                                                    HetllncoSy 1983



-27 -                                                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
Population    : 49,000 (mid-1982, thousands)
GNP per Capita: US$800 (1982)
THAILAND - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at              Average annual increase (%)                       Share of GDP at market prices (x)
current prices)                  (at constant prices)                        _       (at current prices)
Indicator                        1982 /a       1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  1980-85/b  1985-901b   1960           1970      1975     1980      19851b
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product        36,782            8.4       6.3      7.6         5.6         5.9      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture                  8,206            5.5       5.3       3.2        3.8         3.5       39.8     28.3      31.5      26.2      22.5
Industry                    13,048           11.5      7.8      11.4        8.0         6.4        18.7     25.3      24.8      27.5      28.0
Services                    15,535            9.0       7.1      7.9        6.4         6.9       41.5      46.4      43.7      46.3      49.5
Consumption                   28,939            7.3       7.0       7.5        4.5         5.5       85.7     78.7      79.3      78.3      77.0
Gross investment                7,729          15.8       3.8       8.2        4.0         5.8       15.7      26.2      25.4     27.9      24.3
Exports of GNFS                9,166           10.5       3.6     13.4        6.9          7.5       17.4     16.7      19.1      25.0      24.8
Imports of GNFS                9,208           13.9       3.7      10.5       2.8          6.1       18.9     21.5      23.7      31.1      25.9
Gross national savings         7,296           13.7       4.1       5.5        6.3         7.6       14.1     21.5      20.7      20.7      21.2
Composition of merchandise trade (X)
(at current prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985/b  1990/b
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports            6,948            5.5       9.0      14.4        1.5         7.5      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
Primary                      4,757            4.2       6.6     10.0        7.8          4.0      97.8   80.5   77.3   60.2   54.6    46.4
Manufactures                 2,190           29.2      20.9     25.1        12.5        10.2        2.2   19.5   22.7   39.8   45.4    53.6
Merchandise imports            8,548           11.5       3.3      10.8        4.4         6.0      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0
Food                           244            4.3     -2.7      11.9        6.1         6.0        9.6    5.4    4.4    3.4    3.8         3.5
Petroleum                    2,639           11.8       5.0      8.7       -3.0          3.4       10.9    8.8   22.1   31.4   23.4    20.0
Machinery & equipment        2,412           16.1       5.9      7.4        8.0          7.0       25.3   36.1   35.8   23.5   28.4    29.0
Others                       3,253           10.1       1.0      9.3        5.0         7.0       54.2   49.7   37.7   41.7   44.4    47.5
1975      1976       1977        1978      1979       1980       1981       1982/a
PRICES
GDP deflator                                        100.0      103.3      112.1      121.8      136.9      154.0      167.1      175.1
Exchange rate                                        20.4       20.4       20.4       20.3       20.3       20.5       21.82      23.0
Export price index                                  100.0       97.3       99.4      107.4      128.3      151.7      151.8      136.5
Import price index                                  100.0      105.5      113.4      122.3      141.4      175.6      201.1      211.4
Terms of trade index                                100.0       92.2       87.6       87.8       90.8       86.4       75.5       64.6
As X of GDP
1960           1970            1975          1980           1982 /a
PUBLIC FINANCE Ic 
Current revenues                                       13.6           13.8            13.2          14.0           13.5
Current expenditures                                   10.6           12.6            11.8          13.5           14-6
Surplus (+) or-deficit (-)                            +3.0            +1.2            +1.4          +0.5           -1.r
Capital expenditure                                     4.3            5.8             3.4           3.9            4.1
Foreign financing                                       0.2            0.1             0.1           0.2            0.1
1960-70         1970-75          1975-80        1980-85 /b         1985-90 /b
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                           8.4             6.2              6.9              5.5               5.9
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                5.2             3.4              4.4             3.4                3.8
ICOR                                          2.8             4.0              3.4             4.4                4.0
Marginal savings rate                         0.29            0.23             0.21            0.23               0.26
Import elasticity                             1.7             0.6              1.3             1.1                1.0
/a  Preliminary.
/b  Projected.
/c Central government only.
February 29, 1984



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
Population    : 49,000 (mid-1982, thousands)
GIP per Capita: US$800 (1982)                                      - 28 -
TRAILAND - BLANCE OF PATMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                     Est.       Projected
Indicator                       1970    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982  -,-T3    1984    1985    1986    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and nonfactor
services                              1,108   3,490   4,029   4,976   6,456   8,191   8,971   9,206   9,300  11,086  12,869  14,826  25,095
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.            686   2,959   3,454   4,045   5,234   6,449   6,884   6,948   6,400   8,341   9,633  10,993  16,352
Imports of goods and nonfactor
services                             -1,430  -3,692  -5,068  -5,894  -8,123  -9,990 -10,713  -9,406 -10,700 -12,043 -13,478 -15,261 -24,822
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.        -1,148  -3,145  -4,247  -4,913  -6,787  -8,352  -8,930  -8,548  -8,981 -10,118 -11,336 -12,850 -22,669
Net factor income from abroad               23    -62      -99    -266    -480    -610    -998  -1,034  -1,200  -1,227  -1,364  -1,497  -1,980
Net transfers                               49      23      40       40      60      188     132     149      300     379      401     440     710
Current account balance                  -250    -440  -1,097  -1,153  -2,086  -2,223  -2,608  -1,086  -2,300  -1,805  -1,572  -1,492    -997
Private direct investment                   43      79      106      50      51      187     292      183     344     248      272     299     438
MLT loans (net)                             32     248     346      670   1,418   1,665   1,631   1,332   1,073   2,029   1,948   1,932   1,368
Official                                  21     109     181      290     488     569      621     715   1,237   1,804   1,967   1,666   1,311
private /a                                10     139     165      380     930   1,096   1,010      617   -164       224     -19      256      56
Other capital /b                            93     219     740      782   1,160      -5   1,286      299      283     -68    -240    -257      -39
Change in reserves                          82    -96      -95    -349    -543       366   -601    -130       600   -404    -408    -482    -770
(- indicates increase)
International reserves                     906   2,113   2,208   2,557   3,100   2,734   3,335   3,465   2,865   3,090   3,494   3,976   5,801
Reserve as onthe imports                     8       7       5        5       5        3       4       4        3       3        3       3       3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements
Concessional loans                       11       52      78      153     242     230      223     214     504      638     747      686     700
DAC                                     11      45      50       86     178     176      189     152      431     567     694      654     698
IDA                                     -        7       9        5       4       5       21      19       18      15      10        5       0
Other                                   -        -      19       62      60      49       13      43       55      56      43       27       2
Nonconcessional loans                    188     467     58-5  1,133   1,816   2,154   2,028   1,912   1,520   2,506   2,618   3,034   4,017
Official export credits                  7       -      32        -       -       3       80     152      184     206     272      333     457
IBRD                                   19       43      65      103     139     143      289     370     306      341     407      467     604
Other multilateral                      2       46      33      46       36      83       64     101     212      225     312      385     457
Private publicly guaranteed             17     101     106      411     842     898      805     582     361      707     634      384     310
Private nonguaranteed                 143      277     349      573     799   1,027      790     707     439   1,027    -993   1,465   2,189
Total gross disbursements               199      519     663   1,286   2,058   2,384   2,251   2,127   2,025   3,144   3,364   3,720   4,717
External Debt (fixed-term)
Public debt outstanding &
disbursed                               328      823   1,119   1,820   2,832   4,128   5,169   6,206   7,670   9,210  10,848  12,150  16,187
Official                              291      672     895   1,254   1,671   2,315   2,843   3,295   4,699   6,046   7,677   9,077  13,428
Private                                 37     151     224      566   1,161   1,813   2,326   2,911   2,971   3,165   3,171   3,073   2,759
Private nonguaranteed debt
outstanding and disbursed             382      785     880     931   1,243   1,703   2,099   2,317   1,533   2,022   2,332   2,962   5,485
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed                             710   1,608   1,999   2,751   4,075   5,831   7,268   8,523   9,203  11,232  13,180  15,112  21,672
IJndisbursed debt                        116     840   1,364   1,899   2,361   3,004   3,081   3,582   3,586   3,530   3,220   3,028   3,996
Debt Service
Total service payments                  162      378     442      812     962   1,224   1,325   1,497   1,703   1,897   2,334   2,838   4,914
Interest                               16      107     126      196     322     505      686     703     753      782     918   1,049   1,565
Payment  as X exports of goods and    14.6    10.8    11.0    16.3    14.9    15.4    15.6    16.3    18.3    17.1    18.1    19.1    19.6
nonfactor services
Averase interest rate on new loans
(X) /c                                    6.8      7.8     7.0      6.8     7.6     9.3    10.2      9.5     9.5      9.5     9.6      9.6     9.6
o0t=ciai                                6.8      7.9     6.1     5.6      5.4     6.8      7.4     6.9       -        -       -        -       -
Private                                 6.0      7.3     8.3      8.9    10.5    13.8    13.8    11.9         -       -       -        -       -
Avere usturity of new loans
(Years) /c                                18.9    17.3    14.5    17.1    17.0    16.6    16.7    17.3    17.3    15.8    14.4    13.3    13.0
OfficiiT                               19.4    20.6    19.6    21.1    22.4    21.1    22.4    22.5           -       -       -        -       -
private                                 11.2     7.3     7.9      9.4    10.0     8.6      9.3    10.3        -       -       -        -       -
BankN.Groupoxsure(X
IBD DOD/total DOD                      22.6    18.6    17.3    15.8    13.6    11.6    12.9    15.6    16.6    16.1    16.2    16.5    17.7
IBiD disburaeuanta/total gross
disbursemnts                          9.5      8.3    10.0     8.6      7.0     6.1    13.0    24.7    15.1    10.8    12.1    12.6    12.8
IBRD debt service/total debt
service                              11.1      9.6    10.0     6.8      6.9     6.5      6.8     7.5     9.9    10.6    10.7    11.1    11.9
IDA DOD/total DOD                         -      0.7     1.0      0.9     0.7     0.6      0.7     0.8     0.9      0.9     0.9      0.8     0.5
IDA disbursement/total gross
disbursemnts                            -      1.3     1.3     0.4      0.2     0.2      0.9     1.0     0.8      0.6     0.4     0.1      0.0
IDA debt service/total debt
service                                 -      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.2     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
As X of debt outstanding
at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                                           48.4
Principal due within 10 years                                                          71.4
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                         11.2
* Due to change in elassification, projected data for "private MLT loans" include some of the category "other capital".
Jl "Other capital" includes not use of IIW fund. and net flow of sbort-term capital.
. laitrical da   does not include noasuaranteed private debt.
baPrelim9 8ry.
Feabruar 29, 1984



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STAIUS OF BANK (RDUP OPERAIIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AM) ICA CREDITS /a
(As of September 30, 1983)
AmonDt ($ million)
Loan or                                                            Less Cancellations
Credit                                                        Bank          DA      Undis-
Number Year       Borrower                    Purpose                               bursed
Thirty-eight loans and three credits fully disbursed       1,092.69       31.74
1149    1975   Kingdom of Thailand          Irrigation        95.00         -        18.75
1198T   1976  Kingdom of Thailand           Rural Dev.        21.00(TW)     -         1.33
1271    1976  Kingdom of Thailand           Education         26.30         -         2.48
1393    1977  Kingdom of Thailand           Agriculture       28.00         -         0.92
1468    1977  Kingdom of Thailand           Irrigation        55.00         -         9.09
767    1978   Kingdom of Thailand          Population                    33.10/b     6.75
1519    1978   Kingdom of Thailand          Highways         102.60         -         3.31
1527    1978  Provincial Electricity        Rural Elect.      25.00         -         0.93
Authority
1556    1978  Kingdom of Thailand           Housing            8.60         -         4.01
1620    1978  Telephone Organization of    Telecom.           90.00         -        49.84
Thailand
1630    1978  Kingdom of Thailand           Irrigation        17.50         -         9.67
1638    1979  Kingdom of Thailand           Urban Trans.      16.00         -        10.76
1662    1979   State Railway of Thailand    Railways          16.70         -         8.06
1690    1979   Electricity Generating       Power             80.00         -        32.92
Authority of Thailand
913    1979  Kingdom of Thailand           Education           -         35.00      14.53
929    1979  Kingdom of Thailand           Agriculture         -         25.00      16.72
1752    1979   Kingdom of Thailand          Ag. Extension    40.00          -        22.68
1770    1980  Electricity Generating        Power             80.00         -         6.54
Authority of Thailand
1773    1980   Petroleum Authority of       Natural Gas      107.00/c       -         0.49
Thailand                     Pipelines
1787    1980   Kingdom of Thailand          Irrigation       80.00          -        62.42
1816    1980  Kingdom of Thailand           Ag. Credit        19.00         -         3.04
1852    1980  Electricity Generating        Power             72.00         -        21.26
Authority of Thailand
1863    1980   Provincial Waterworks        Water Supply     40.00          -        37.21
Authority



-30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
Amoumt ($ million)
Loan or                                                           Lew Carncellations
Credit                                                       Bank         IDA      Undis-
Number Year       Borrower                   Purpose                               bursed
1870    1980  Kingdom of Thailand          Hbusing           29.00         -        21.80
1871    1980  Provincial Electricity       Rural Electri-   75.00          -        60.70
Authority                    fication
1889    1980  Kingdom of Thailand           Inland Waterways 53.00         -        44.75
1918    1980  Kingdom of Thailand          Ports             47.00         -        45.73
1922    1980  Kingdom of Thailand          Ag. Research      30.00         -        29.59
1947    1981  Kingdom of Thailand          Potash             8.90        -          4.02
Engineering
1956   1981  Industrial Finance Corp.      Industry         30.00         -          2.04
of Thailarid
2000   1981   Electricity Generating       Power            100.00         -        96.60
Authority of Thailand
2022    1981  Kingdom of Thailand          Irrigation        57.00        -         52.12
2035   1981  Kingdom of Thailand           Provincial Roads 35.00         -         18.52
2078    1982  Kingdom of Thailand          Tree crops       142.00         -       112.89
2143    1982  Telephone Organization       Teleconamni-    142.10         -        135.11
of Thailand                  cations
2178    1982  Kingdom of ThaiLand          Education         75.00         -        73.71
2184    1982  Petroleum Authority of       Liquified Petro- 90.00         -         84.72
Thailand                     leum Gas
2198    1982   Kingdom of Thailand         Agriculture       17.00        -         17.00
2310    1983  Bank for Agriculture &       Agriculture       70.00        -         70.00
Cooperatives /d
2311    1983  Kingdom of Thailand /d       Prov. Roads      100.00        -        100.00
2312    1983  Provincial Electricity       Rural Elec-       30.60        -         30.60
Authority /d                 trification
Total                                                3,243.99      124.84   1,343.62
of which has been repaid                             339.02        2.97
Total now outstanding                                2,904.97      121.87
Anmxmt sold /e                          68.63
of which has been repaid              55.42           13.21
Total now held by Bank and ID4                       2,891.76      121.87
Total undisbursed                                    1,305.62       38.00   1,343.62
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant participation.
7Tc Includes refinancing of Loan S-10-TH ($4.9 million).
77 Not yet effective.
/e Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of September 30, 1983)
Amounts ($ million)
Year               Company               Type of Business          Loan   Equity  Total
1959      Concrete Products and       Cement and Construc-         0.30     -        0.30
Aggregate Co., Ltd.         tion Materials
1964/     Industrial                  Development Finance           -      0.39      0.39
1970        Finance Corporation         Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/     Siam Cement Group           Cement and Construc-
1975/                                    tion Materials          28.33    4.24    32.57
1978/1979
1977      Mutual Fund Company         Money and Capital
Limited                     Market                     -      0.29      0.29
1977      United Sugar Terminal       Food and Food
Limited                     Processing                2.50    0.20      2.70
1978      Siam Commercial Bank        Small and Medium
Scale Industries          2.00     -        2.00
1979/     Bangkok Glass Industry    Glass Containers               9.85    0.45    10.30
1980/       Company, Limited
1979/     Siam City Cement            Cement and Construc-
1981        Co. Ltd.                     tion materials          63.00    4.00    67.00
1979      Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.                 Capital Market                -      0.15      0.15
1983      Sea Minerals Limited        Mining                       -       0.33      0.33
Total gross commitments                               105.98   10.05   116.03
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              71.14    3.04    74.18
Net held by the corporation                            34.84    7.01    41.84
Total undisbursed                                      17.59             17.59



- 32 -
ANNEX III
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Policies, regulations and administrative procedures for the National
Rural Development Program were formulated during 1981 and 1982 by
the National Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) and the
Bureau of the Budget (BOB) with extensive assistance from consul-
tants and subcommittees of the National Rural Development Committee
(NRDC).
(b) Project prepared by NESDB in conjunction with Bank staff.
(c) Time taken to prepare the project: 18 months
(d) Appraisal mission: April 1983
(e) Completion of negotiations: February 2, 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: May 28, 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government has agreed to:
(a) establish and maintain a monitoring and evaluation system
(para. 40);
(b) maintain the National Rural Development Program as its principal
mechanism for developing rural areas and inform the Bank of any
important modifications (para. 60);
(c) host an annual implementation review for all cofinanciers and
government agencies concerned (para. 47); and
(d) open a Special Account as a condition of loan effectiveness
(paras.52 and 63).



00 .J                                           THAILAND
NATIONAL RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B U  R M  A                ,_A                                                                 Poverty Areas (by district]
-20                                   f   > 4   O                                                          District Boundaries (poverty areas only) 20-
r',|    i '-'S              O    \/                                         ----- Changwat (Province) Boundaries
g/    ;~         'N4         ','-y,J' ^> * -    -e                            - -    Regional Boundaries
Mle H-TkI        1' PYOPhtta    \                                             -._    International Boundaries
Chi-~C
-   Oe  T hdqMeio,(   p    ,  N      nO~
(~~~~.LtvAut1                     -       -   et  -"_                                      I,'  -
'I     /    - Jtt--ae
_ '                   -_ _(>j         _ z l    I.L            amPan            ClO                -   J/hraeo- 9 / ;T\  .f  '  * LAO  PEOPLE'S
*                   ',4<-,<J              */ iou[89i   i                                            DEMOCRATIC
N5                  3    I\  J0i~ts J0Loei    % i  VSukhOthaS f   _y <\J   g) U         'REPUBLIC
1.073t   \                        I j                                                       C' j   (             r ao  ak<  
;~ ~~~s 04          ( KaY  o   \Sitnsa                                     Ode Tiet 4Pisnlkg         ,
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~                 X NCf                                                    ---   e { PzllOtPhtrau   ---~Jt, Kls  Mkohn
-' ',                                                              - -              A'
(              N'~~o   K             N0   0PhSse,tulsk    "No-         U- K                  N 1
L                    / -                      / -- -- o                                            MN
Q)vu                /\                    2              /)rOrUrll_>k 
K-5som  -  t 'OCncnaitatttt  >             I             POET   ARtAS5  BYRGO
)\ CEN T               R           N  'o 2CutaujvSUH                       |    S        22         4
,_   .   --jNinPt  ,eem                              /    TOa  t
-12 ~ ~   ~       ~      ~     ~      ' *s-r--u-p Ihr Kha                ;l                       ,t '\I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  
/~~~~~~~-ah4anttt /                                                KAMPUCHEAtei
>rtK~~~~~~~i                                                                         The Wo/0->  ' A7fetCiSKt
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ue Aabdjff e $b(usrevrtts ---  / 
Tend~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~neafta ateow                               e CKiost
Xe                          oUf snSitaTyo  eTq ktu
t    )      Jqedtl7 N4 ThmO )C                                        _b_           
nett       ;                               _11          2T_/_ A
~~~~~~~~~~~~taes-B   .2db (  '--                                     r                           POET   ARASB  REGIO
PirntO With 5t0k       >. (s                                                      T NOT  16  7I L ND
,        _rn           2                                   SOUTHl          5         26     A  6
Kllomelers.. NnM                        -(  gewn       >'                        TOA          3       A 24 A       44SI
Mlles~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T, ma rSa bev preparede  N
U1,04   T MI04 N   E sS IPAett J
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
-  , I~~~~~~~~St 5 etvipcvv h
ol -1, S.r. B.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~raer et nnettev orSt
O' - 'e'edte(eearstPr 
REGION~~~~~~r n SernteDy5eRIapp
)    SOUIIH                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOT  5 2 
-82                    PhihttK-   KhI                                                                                                              12'
K'                                                      N       (bEss~~~DE OC ATCvAs 
'0  C'                                                           KAMPUCHEAKAM UCHF
0    4                                                                                   I 0-- /.
~~~~~  ~~~~~~~- va~~~-   :t~b.~   h
o  00    200    200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-h -p ratrswa
o  100           200                )          *a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,-hbd
S,,.o'                        MALYSIACIHND    NE SA



