Report No. PID10727
Project Name                     Cameroon-Douala Infrastructures Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Other Transportation
Project ID                       CMPE74490
Borrower(s)                      Republic Of Cameroon
Implementing Agency
Address Ministry Of Public Investements;
Urban Community Of Douala.
Ministry of Public Investments and Regional
Planning.
Address: Yaounde, Cameroon
Contact Person:
Email: dfotsing@minpat.gov.cm
Urban Community of Douala (UCD)
Address: Douala, Cameroon
Contact Person: Jean Yango, Director,
Technical Services.
Tel: (237) 42 60 50
Fax: (237) 43 08 06
Email:eanyango@yahoo.fr
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                October 17, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         March 15, 2002
Projected Board Date             May 14, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The 1985-95 economic depression had a negative impact on the transport
sector, reducing the volume of public investment and spending on
infrastructure maintenance, leading to serious degradation of the
transport infrastructure network and loss of the competitiveness. The
Transport Sector Project, initiated by the Government in 1996 and financed
by several donors, launched sector reforms to improve the transport
industry and made investments to rehabilitate the transport
infrastructures: roads, railway, ports; land, and maritime and air
transport. Road and railway transport were totally privatized and the
results already achieved are significant; transport operation and
infrastructure are improving dramatically. However, the urban interfaces
the port/road networks and port/hinterlands havedeteriorated, especially
in Douala, and have yet to be rehabilitated.    The city of Douala, with a
population of 2 million inhabitants, and an area of 300 sqkm, accounts for
around 80t of Cameroon's industrial activities.   Almost 100w of the port
activities (about 6 million tons of traffic a year) of Cameroon, Chad and



the Central Republic of Africa are also located in Douala. Only 450 km of
Douala's roads are paved. The ambitious 1991 program of rehabilitation
and construction of new roads in Douala was hardly started, due to the
1985-95 economic recession; in meanwhile urbanization and traffic have
dramatically increased and the resources of the UCD and the fund transfers
from the central government to the UCD declined sharply. Thus,
significant deterioration of the road network has taken place due to the
lack of repair and maintenance, especially of roads used by heavy trucks
and that are the most important for economic activities. Traffic,
especially from and to the port and the industrial areas (average daily
traffic of 25,000 to 32,000 vehicles of which about 50t are buses and
taxis and 5t to 8t heavy trucks), has become very difficult, costly
(average Economic Rate of Return of 76t for the road rehabilitation
investment), and time consuming (car speeds of less than 10 to 15 km/hour)
for workers, trucks, and goods, reducing the efficiency of the port and
its competitiveness, and tarnishing the reputation of the economic capital
of Cameroon and the port of the region. With the support of the French
Cooperation and the French Agency of Development (FAD), the Government and
the UCD prepared an emergency rehabilitation program of the most strategic
roads to unlock the port and the industrial areas of Douala, to improve
the road traffic, environment, and safety. This program would be
supported by an improvement in UCD management, timely transfer of the
legally due fiscal resources from the central government to the UCD,
allocation of adequate resources for urban road maintenance including
drainage system, and efficient execution of maintenance. A city contract,
with clear objectives and benchmarks, was signed last year between the
central government and the UCD, indicating the funds to be transferred by
the government to the UCD, and the management results expected from the
UCD. In addition, the UCD established a road maintenance fund with
benchmarks for its replenishment.
2. Objectives
The Project aims to support Government of Cameroon and the Urban Community
of Douala (UCD) to implement an urgent program of rehabilitation of the
primary roads of Douala that connect the port and the industrial areas and
their hinterlands; and strengthen the urban road management and
maintenance framework. Since the economic and transport reforms launched
in 1996 after the 1985-95 recession, the city of Douala is recovering its
position as the nation's capital for industrial activities and services,
and the regional capital for maritime traffic and trade. After the
reforms of maritime transport and port operations, and privatization of
all land transports, the city of Douala needs an efficient transport
system and an excellent interface with port/city and port/hinterland to
complete the improvement of the whole transport chain. To this end, in
2000, the UCD prepared a comprehensive traffic scheme and an urgent
program of rehabilitation of the main roads to address the most critical
urban transport issues, and a contract with the government to improve the
city management and its own performances.The project aims to support these
activities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA's participation in this project will help achieve the CAS and PRSP's
objectives, and consolidate the transport reforms already implemented for
- 2 -



port operations and land transport. Improvement of Douala port
operations, supported by the SACIII, depends also on the efficiency of its
interface with land transport. IDA supported the creation of the Road
Fund which finances part of urban road maintenance. Bank support in this
project would insure continuity of improvement in the whole transport
chain, in addition to benefits from its experience in urban transport
projects.
4. Description
The project would consist of three components:(a) Execution of an urgent
urban road rehabilitation program in Douala. The program would cover of
about 38 km of existing primary roads connecting the port and the
industrial areas to the other districts of the city and to the intercity
road network; the pavement will be rebuilt, sidewalks and the drainage
system rehabilitated and improved; parking places for buses and taxis,
traffic lights, road signs will be installed, and safety improved.(b)
Consultant services for program implementation, audits and monitoring,
capacity building for urban road management and maintenance, and
preparation of an urban development program for Douala and other cities,
including review of the waste management system in Douala.(c) Operating
costs of the project unit and the environmental unit of the Ministry of
Public Works for project implementation and monitoring.
(a) Rehabilitation program
(b) Consultant services
(c) Operating costs
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER
Total Project Cost
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented by the UCD, with support of consultants.
The credit would be transferred as a grant by the Government to the
UCD. A Coordinating Committe, including representatives of the UCD, the
City Ministry, the Public Works Ministry and its environment unit, the
Ministry of Finance, the Road Fund, and representatives of the Port of
Douala and Industrial and transport unions would monitor project
implementation. Close coordination and cooperation would be effective
between IDA and FAD for project execution, design, and implementation.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of this project depends on adequatly financing and
executing urban road maintenance. Financing is connected with the
sustainability of: (i) the Road Fund, and thus to the consumption of
petroleum products, the road user taxes, the collection of these taxes,
their transfer to the Road Fund, and allocation of sufficient funds from
the Road Fund for urban road maintenance; (ii) transfer of other taxes and
funds from the central Government to the municipalities and to the UCD,
especially for urban road maintenance. The Road Fund created in 1999 is
operating very well, as the consumption of petroleum products increased
- 3 -



with the recovery of the economy, and the taxes are collected and
allocated regularly. Transfer of the taxes "additional centimes" from the
central Government to municipalities has improved with the economic
recovery. The UCD is willing to strengthen the transport and road
management unit and improve road maintenance.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The most significant lessons learned from the Transport Sector Technical
Assistance Project (ICR No 20044, February 14, 2000) are the following:
(a) Continuity in Bank support strategy, through successive projects
(investments and macroeconomic or sectoral adjustments), is essential for
supporting the different phases of reforms and for consolidating those
achieved under previous projects. This project would consolidate and
complete the reforms implemented under the Third Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC III), the Transport Sector Project, and the future Railway
Concessioning Project, especially the port reform and the Road Fund. (b)
In the absence of incentives, structural reforms could not have been
implemented. This project would provide leverage for improving the
financing and management framework of urban road maintenance.     (c)
Implementation of distinct phases of separate sub-sector reforms, each
targeting a set of priority objectives, is more realistic than the
implementation of an integrated program with multiple objectives. Thus,
the project objectives are limited to improving urban road management and
maintenance.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project consists of rehabilitation of existing
urban roads. The impact of the works is expected to improve the traffic
conditions, safety, and reduce air pollution. The project is a
straightforward infrastructure project of mainly repaving and
rehabilitating the existing urban roads. For the rehabilitation of roads,
earth from quarries (existing or new) might be needed. Environmental
Standard Operating Procedures developed by Environment Unit of the
Ministry of Public Works for road construction will be applied to the
project, including the presence of an environmental specialist for work
supervision. The contractor has to include an environmental management
plan (EMP) in the project design and in the program of works. This EMP
should be approved by the Environment Unit. The discharge of waste oil
from car engines is most likely one of the major pollutants in
Douala.There are no feasible alternatives for existing urban road
rehabilitation programs. Standard construction techniques will be used, as
applied worldwide by road contractors.The quarries that would be used
would be managed according to the rules established by the Direction
d'environnement on the subject. The Environment Unit of the Ministry of
Public Works for road construction will be fully involved in monitoring
the environmental/social aspects of the rehabilitation works. A pilot
approach will be tested to minimize the pollution caused by the discharge
of waste oil from car engines through an analysis of feasible collection
and recycling mechanisms.The project will improve road safety by several
means, i.e. traffic lights, special areas for bus stops and taxi parking,
and improvement of side walks. The Unit in charge of the road maintenance
- 4 -



will handle the drainage network. In addition, the project will finance a
study to review the solid and liquid waste management system for the whole
city. Implementation of a solid and liquid waste management plan will be
included in the upcoming urban management project.Key stakeholders are
people living and having their businesses along the roads to be
rehabilitated and other city road users. The roads to be rehabilitated are
major urban arteries. The Environmental Analysis for the project will be
available for comments to the people located along the roads to be
rehabilitated. Its availability will be announced in the newspapers.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Abdelghani Inal
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 4830
Email: Ainal@worldbank.org
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October 26,2001
- 5 -



