Document of
The World Bank
REPORT No: 24356CM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 45.20 MILLION
(US$ 56.35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
FOR
DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
June 6, 2002
Country Department 7
Transport Unit
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 23, 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
CFAF 730 = US$1
US$1.24862 = SDR 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAC                  Centimes Additionnels Communaux (Municipalfiscal income)
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
EMP                  Environmental Management Plan
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
FDA                  French Development Agency
FY                   Fiscal Year
ICB                  International Competitive Bidding
IDA                  International Development Agency
I-PRSP              Interim Poverty Reduction Stratery Paper
NCB                  National Competitive Bidding
NPV                  Net Present Value
SAC m         Third Structural Adjustment Credit
SOTUC                Societe de Transports Urbains du Cameroun (Public Compoany for
Transportation)
UCD                  Urban Community of Douala
SPN                  Supervision
Vice President:  Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Mr. Robert Caiderisi
Sector Manager/Director:  Mrs. Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Mr. Abdelghani Inal



CAMEROON
DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  7
C. Project Description Sumnimary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           11
2. Financial                                                                          11
3. Technical                                                                          11
4. Institutional                                                                      12
5. Environmental                                                                      13
6. Social                                                                             15
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 16



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     16
2. Critical risks                                                                     16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     17
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            17
2. Other                                                                              18
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          19
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    21
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         27
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                   28
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               31
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       32
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     46
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   47
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  48
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            50
Annex 11: Environmental Assessment                                                       52
Annex 12: Government Policy Letter                                                       77
MAP(S)
84



CAMEROON
DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTTR
Date: June 6, 2002                                Team Leader: Abdelghani Inal
Country Manager/Director: Robert Calderisi        Sector Manager/Director: Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Project ID: P074490                               Sector(s): TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investmnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data,, -
] Loan     [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    [ ]Guarantee      [ J Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 56.35 (SDR 45.200)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 40
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing,Plan (US$m):  . Source'                            Lcal         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       15.60           0.00         15.60
IDA                                                             5.64          50.71         56.35
Total:                                                         21.24          50.71         71.95
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PUBLIC INVESTMENTS; URBAN COMMUNITY OF DOUALA.
Ministry of Public Investments and Regional Planning
Address: Yaounde, Cameroon
Tel:             Fax:              Email: dfotsing@minpat.gov.cm
Other Agency(ies):
Urban Community of Douala (UCD)
Address: Douala, Cameroon
Contact Person: Jean Yango, Director, Technical Services
Tel: (237) 342 60 50          Fax: (237) 343 08 06           Email: Jeanyango@yahoo.fr
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY 0 0  3             2004        2005>               - 20067 ., 200 8         .
Annual      1.32       5.08      8.70      12.76      14.48      14.01
Cumulative      1.32      6.40      15.10      27.86     42.34      56.35
Project implementation period: 6 years FY 2003-2009
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2008
LO PMD F. I V. NW



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project aims to support the Government of Cameroon and the Urban Community of Douala
(UCD) to improve the efficiency of Douala's transport system connecting the sub-regional port of
Douala and its hinterlands (local, national, and sub-regional). This objective will be achieved
through the implementation of an urgent program of rehabilitation of the degradated primary
roads connecting the port and the industrial areas; and strengthening the capacity for urban road
management and maintenance.
Since the economic and transport reforms launched in 1996 after the 1985-95 recession, the city
of Douala is recovering its position as the nation's capital for industrial activities and services, and
the sub-regional capital for maritime traffic and trade. After the reforms of maritime transport and
port operations, and privatization of land transports, the city of Douala needs an efficient
transport system and an excellent interface with port/city and port/hinterland to complete the
improvement of the whole transport chain and to increase urban, national, and sub-regional
(Cameroon, Chad, Central Africa Republic, and Congo) productivity. To this end, in 2001, the
UCD prepared a comprehensive traffic scheme, an urgent program of rehabilitation of the main
roads to address the most critical urban transport issues, and signed a contract of objectives with
the Government to improve the performances of its city management.
The project aims to support these activities.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress will be monitored using the following key performance indicators:
(a) 23 kms of primary roads rehabilitated in Douala; (b) travel times on the rehabilitated roads will
be reduced by about 42% (4.7 million hours of cars time will be saved by year); and transport
costs on the primary roads of Douala will be reduced by 42.3% (saving of CEAF 21 Billions per
year); (c) Douala road maintenance budgets and expenditures; (d) an operational urban road
management and maintenance unit in UCD; and (e) preparation and adoption of a sound urban
sector policy, including urban transport and investment programs.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex l)
Document number: IDA/R2000-95 and progress report Date of latest CAS discussion: June 15, 2000
One of the objectives of the 1996 CAS and the 2000 I-PRSP (IDA/SecM2002-007) is to maintain
and develop the road network in both urban and rural areas and improve the port's efficiency and
competitiveness. Based on these CAS and PRSP objectives and on the important role of the port
and the city of Douala in the economy of Cameroon and the sub-region, the proposed project will
support urgently needed improvement of the transport system and rehabilitation, management and
maintenance of urban roads to enhance the competitiveness of the port and the city of Douala.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
-2 -



The 1985-95 economic depression had a negative impact on the transport sector, reducing the
volume of public investment and spending on infrastructure maintenance, leading to serious
degradation of the transport infrastructure network and loss of competitiveness. The Transport
Technical Assistance and the Transport Sector Project, initiated by the Government in 1996 and
financed by several donors, launched sector reforms to improve the transport industry and made
investments to rehabilitate the transport infrastructure: roads, railway, ports; and land, maritime
and air transport. Road and railway transports were privatized and already the results achieved
are significant; transport operation and infrastructure are improving dramatically. The port
reforms have increased the efficiency of the port of Douala. However, the interfaces port/urban
road networks and port/hinterlands have deteriorated in Douala, and have yet to be rehabilitated
and adequately maintained.
Current situation
The city of Douala, with a population of 2 million inhabitants and an area of 300 sq kms, accounts
for around 80% of Cameroon's industrial activities. Almost 100% of the port activities (about 6
million tons of traffic a year) for Cameroon, Chad, the Central Africa Republic, and Congo are
also located in Douala. Only 450 kms of Douala's 1,800 kms roads are paved. An ambitious
program of rehabilitation and new road construction in Douala launched in 1991 was hardly
started, due to the economic recession; meanwhile urbanization and traffic have dramatically
increased and both the resources of the UCD and the fund transfers from the central government
to the UCD had declined sharply. Thus, significant deterioration of the road network has taken
place due to the lack of repair and maintenance, especially of roads used by heavy trucks and that
are the most important for economic activities. Traffic, especially from and to the port and the
industrial areas (average daily traffic of 25,000 to 32,000 vehicles of which about 50% are buses
and taxis and about 8% heavy trucks), has become very difficult, costly (average Economic Rate
of Return of 76% for the road rehabilitation investment), and time consuming (car speeds of less
than 10 to 15 km/hour) for workers, trucks, and goods, reducing the efficiency and
competitiveness of the port, and tarnishing the reputation of the economic capital of Cameroon
and the port of the region.
The natural conditions of Douala (geology, weather, and topography) are very constraining and
challenging for the infrastructure, requiring more frequent maintenance, at higher costs. The
geological conditions are not well suited to road construction: bad soil with a high concentration
of clay. The weather conditions are not better, with abundant rain (4 to 6 meters of rain per
year), prone to lush vegetation, that even grows through concrete surfaces, and increases the need
for maintenance works, particularly for drainage and sanitation systems. The topography is also
problematic: the flat surface of the city prevents water from flowing normally.
In addition to the bad natural conditions, the economic depression and the rapid and uncontrolled
urban growth have contributed to the degradation of the road network. Until 1988, a certain
economic prosperity offered investment capacity that enabled the city of Douala to plan its
long-term development, such as an urban master plan in 1993. The Urban Community of Douala
was created in 1987, at a time when the economic crisis that dramatically reduced its fiscal
revenues was about to take place. Many of the projects identified as priorities for the city of
- 3 -



Douala, including the completion of the existing road network linking the urban extensions to the
inner city, and improving the crossing of the Wouri river, were supposed to accompany a
sustainable urban growth, but were delayed, and most of them remain moribond even today. The
UCD had no funds (the cities produced 60% of the fiscal resources, and only 1% was transferred
back to them) for the development or maintenance of the infrastructure, which suffered rapid and
constant degradation; meanwhile the population, and therefore the number of vehicles kept
increasing, without additional infrastructure to support growth.
The last main reason for the degradation and in some areas the destruction of the road network is
the function of certain roads and the traffic: many axes are used by very heavy traffic. It is
known that the effects of heavy traffic are even more destructive on urban roads than on
inter-urban roads because of the effects of mechanical shearing due to the low speed traffic, traffic
congestion, and the many changes in direction.
Urban growth is still increasing (it has reached an annual rate of 6-7%, and is expected to
continue in the years to come), and Cameroon is recovering from its economic depression and the
access to the port and industrial areas are strategic for economic growth, employment and poverty
alleviation.
Access of industrial areas
There are four industrial areas in' Douala: three in the Eastem part (left bank of the Wouri), and
one in Bonabrin - Western part of Douala (right bank). The access to the three eastern industrial
areas depends on the "carrefour de Ndokoti". This junction was created in 1953, in the outskirts,
as an access to the first industrial area. Today, without any remodelling or upgrading, it is the
epicenter of the city, structuring the distribution and traffic in all the Eastern part of the city, and
providing access to large industrial areas requiring heavy transport means. It is not well-adapted
to the traffic and is permanently saturated. The Bonaberi industrial area has quite a few
industries, most of which depend on the traffic conditions in the transit itinerary, including the
Wouri bridge. The industrial areas are serviced by main axes that are in particularly bad
condition; in some cases the pavement has entirely disappeared in large sections, causing mud
flows during heavy rain.
Port accessibility
Four million tons of merchandises a year are transported by road to andfrom the port, using the
deteriorated urban road network and two other million tons are transported by railway; 2.5
million tons are for export, mainly wood and agricultural products from Cameroon, Chad, Central
Africa Republic and Congo. Most of the traffic with the province, the rest of the country, and the
neighboring countries avoids the inner part of the city; it goes through the Eastern road to
Yaounde and the "Boulevard Leclerc" before crossing the Wouri bridge towards the Western and
Northern parts of the country. On this last axis, crossing Bonaberi often results in problems and
serious nuisance.
The case of the Wouri bridge
The Wouri bridge is the only crossing point over this river in Douala. It enables both sides of the
city to conmnunicate and ensures the traffic of goods coming from the West (bananas, various
-4 -



export goods, and gas) and from the industrial areas of Bonaberi (especially cement). It is
equipped with two road lanes and one train track. Built in 1953, this pre-stressed concrete bridge
has not been maintained for many years, and studies have evidenced probable degradations that
represent major risks to its stability. As the collapse of this bridge would have dramatic
consequences for Cameroon's economy, rehabilitation is urgently needed.
The bridge carries a very significant volume of traffic and it is an essential point for the
organization of the urban and national network. Before launching into the construction of a
second bridge, upstream from this one, as recommended in the urban master plan of the city, it is
necessary to ensure traffic contnuity. The existing bridge, which has an absorption capacity of
30,000 vehicles, should be reinforced by the UCD and made safer for users. Its rehabilitation,
financed by the French Agency for Development, will increase the traffic on all roads linked to it,
most of which are included in this project.
Urban mobility
The rapid urban growth and the degradation of the road network without any extension or
maintenance of the existing infrastructure have made the transport of people and goods very
difficult. After the liquidation of the urban transport public company, SOTUC, an entire market
of public transportation opened, with the emergence of taxis and moto-taxis, contributing to a
new type of congestion, with taxis parking everywhere, and mostly in the lanes reserved for
circulation. Urban mobility has deteriorated sharply, and many people (especially the poor)
cannot afford the transport of their goods or of themselves.
Road safety and vehicle operating costs
The poor road safety in Camneroon is mainly due to: (i) Defects and/ or absence of road signalling
and lighting (pedestrians and vehicles are not always visible); (ii) disrespect of the traffic code;
(iii) poor road conditions; (iv) chaotic parking of certain vehicles dangerous for vehicular traffic
and pedestrians; and (v) vehicle conditions: the fleet of vehicles is very old. Moreover, the vehicle
operating costs are extremely high because of the road conditions: it is possible to break an
axletree while riding one of the main roads in Douala. People are reluctant to invest in new
vehicles, and have to be constantly repairing the vehicles they own. The frequent need for
vehicles repairs reduces the efficiency of the transport system, increases transport costs, and
ultimately reduces competitiveness.
Air pollution
The bad condition of the roads forces drivers of the vehicles to use mostly their first and second
gears, which represent the highest fuel consumption and gas ernission. Moreover, road users are
not inclined to change or renew their vehicles given such a bad road network.
Maintenance of the roads and the drainage systems
Certain roads have suffered so much degradation, and have had so little maintenance, if any, that
they have become too dangerous and have been closed to traffic. The situation cannot improve
without complete rehabilitation, since most of the roads have gone past their life expectancy, and
the tons of pozzolana and other materials dumped on the road to enable traffic to move have
poured into the gutters and drainage system, blocking an already insufficient system. The
- 5.-



rehabilitation of certain road sections in the project is an urgent necessity: the infrastructure
should be rehabilitated to provide the service that it was meant for; and this service must be
continued after rehabilitation. Financial and institutional devices should be set up to guarantee the
sustainability of the works and ensure maintenance.
A contract on objectives, prepared with assistance of the FDA, has been signed on December
1999 by the UCD and the Government to provide an action plan for CUD finances improvement,
set up of a road maintenance account, preparation of a multi year road maintenance program,
coordination with other utility institutions using the road network, and institutional support. This
has enabled the setting up of a road maintenance account, jointly replenished by the local
communities and the Government, and the modalities of participation of the communities in
infrastructure maintenance. Maintenance will also be required for the drainage system, to avoid
flooding of houses along the roads, and the stagnation of water that could lead to health and
sanitation problems. In the fiscal year 01/02 the Road Fund provided to UCD an amount of
CFAF160 million and UCD allocated an amount of CFAF1,000 million for road maintenance.
The UCD total budget of the FY 1999/2000 was CFAF12 billion, and the current expenditures
CFAF6.7 billion. If the "Centimes Additionnels Communaux" (CAC) are transferred adequately
by the Government to UCD, financing of road maintenance would not be an issue. In addition,
the Government committed an amount of four billions CFAF to rehabilitate the most deteriorated
and circulated segment of the Boulevard Leclerc.
The Government and the UCD prepared an emergency rehabilitation program of the most
strategic roads to unlock the port and the industrial areas of Douala, and to improve the road
traffic, environment, and safety. This program would be supported by an improvement in UCD
management, timely transfer of the legally due fiscal resources from the central government to the
UCD, allocation of adequate resources for urban road maintenance including the drainage system,
and efficient execution of maintenance. The Government and the UCD committed themselves to
allocate the following amounts for road maintenance (Government Policy Letter dated February
1st 2002) during the following fiscal years (Base costs 2002, to be updated annually depending on
the inflation rates in Cameroon) - 2002: CFAF 1,105 Million; 2003: CFAF 2,545 Million; 2004:
CFAF 3,810 Million; 2005: CFAF 5,205 Million; 2006: CFAF 5,955 Million. A mechanism to
secure funds for the replenishment of the road maintenance account will be set up by the
Government before Credit Effectiveness. This mechanism will be based on the successful
experience of the Road Fund.
- 6-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The main sector issues to be addressed by the proposed project are transport efficiency (local,
national and sub-regional), urban mobility in Douala, road rehabilitation of the primary urban
roads, safety, environment, and building institutional capacity, including sustainable financing, and
efficient management and maintenance of roads in Douala, including drainage system. The roles
of the various ministries in charge of urban development, cities, and transport and roads, and the
UCD should be clarified. Detailed social and environmental aspects, in addition to safety
improvement, will be included in final subproject design and works execution. About 10% of the
resources of the Road Fund, set up in 1999, are to finance urban road maintenance. This
percentage should be reviewed based on studies to be carried out. The municipal resources
should also finance maintenance of urban infrastructure, and traffic management units should be
set up at the municipal level in the main cities to handle urban traffic and road network
management and maintenance. Adequate transfer of resources from the central Government to
UCD and close monitoring will ensure maintenance of the road network and project sustainability.
The Policy Letter of the Government dated February 1st, 2002 spells out its policy on this subject.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would consist of three components:
(a)   Execution of an urgent urban road rehabilitation program in Douala. The program would
cover about 23 km of existing primary roads connecting the port and the industrial areas to the
other districts of the city and to the intercity road network; the pavement will be rebuilt;
intersections, sidewalks and the drainage system rehabilitated and improved; parking places for
buses and taxis, traffic lights, road signs will be installed, and safety improved.
(b)   Provision of technical assistance for program implementation, audits and monitoring,
project management, capacity building for urban road management and maintenance, and
preparation of an urban development strategy and program for Douala and other cities, including
city development strategies, and financial and organisational audits of UCD.
(c)   Support to the project unit, the PCC and the Environment Unit in the Ministry of Public
Works for project implementation and monitoring.
- 7-



(a) Rehabilitation program     Highways           58.13      80.8    46.50      82.5
(b) Technical Assistance, audits and  Urban Transport  12.86  17.9    9.00      16.0
training
(c) Support to PU, PCC and EU for  Urban Transport  0.35      0.5     0.25       0.4
project implementation and monitoring
(d) PPF Refinancing                                0.60       0.8     0.60       1.1
Total Project Costs                71.94    100.0    56.35     100.0
Total Financing Required                 71.94    100.0     56.35    100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Promote improved management and financing of urban road maintenance in Douala. The project
would introduce a new mechanism for road maintenance financing and execution in urban areas.
This mechanism will help to mobilize and secure adequate resources for road maintenance and
build the road management capacity of the city.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project is designed to benefit the urban population at large, especially the users and
operators of the transport system, the port, and the industrial areas. Major benefits would
include: (1) reduced travel time and congestion; (2) reduced vehicle operating costs by the users
of both freight and passenger vehicles; (3) improved road safety; (4) improved environment and
reduced air pollution; and (5) improved management and maintenance financing of the urban road
network. The project will also benefit producers, especially in the agriculture sector, making the
transport of their production cheaper and faster.
Target Population:
Project benefits would accrue to three main groups. First, road users would benefit from
traveling over a well-maintained network, especially buses and trucks which account for an
estimated 20% of total road users. Second, the general population would benefit from the
increased economic activity and trade between the economic and consumption centers served by
the improved road corridors, and improved environment and safety. Third, the construction
industry would benefit from the works to be implemented under the project which in turn would
generate employment opportunities, many of them requiring medium and low skills, which are
suited to the poor.
-8 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented by the UCD, with appropriate technical support. The credit
would be transferred as a grant by the Borrower to the UCD. A Project Coordinating
Committee, including representatives of the UCD, the City Ministry, the Public Works Ministry
and its environment unit, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Investments, the Road Fund,
and representatives of the Port of Douala and of the Industrial and transport unions would
monitor project implementation. UCD will set up a project unit to ensure project implementation.
This unit will include 3 highways engineers and an accountant and will be supported by technical
assistance for works supervision and capacity building on road maintenance, and by a local
accounting firm for financial management. A detailed financial and accounting procedures manual
with an internal financial control, including an appropriate accounting plan, will be completed
before Credit Effectiveness. The Credit special account and the project account will be opened on
the name of the "Caisse Autonome dA'mortissement" (CAA) of the Ministry of Finance. The
special Account will be opened at a commercial bank. All project payments by UCD will be made
through the CAA. Project financial statements will be prepared every six months, and an
independent auditor's opinion and report satisfactory to IDA will be provided every year. An
annual audit of UCD will be also carried out. Project technical audits will be carried out annually.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
An Adaptable Program Loan was contemplated but abandoned as the program is an urgent
program to avoid further damage in the existing road network that would paralyze the road traffic
and the port of Douala. An urban project addressing other urban management and
decentralization issues was also considered, but the preparation and adoption of a sound sector
policy on urban development and city development strategies to guide the Government and
donors interventions in the urban and municipal sector and the preparation of an urban program
will require more time. These preparations will be carried out during the implementation of the
proposed project, with a technical assistance subcomponent that will finance the needed studies.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
. . J . , ,-Y.e *, > ; *- >, '',~ ','L>atXest Supevsi6on ~.¢
,_._._.._-_____________._,_,_=_, .                         (aLnk-wflnacedAproJe&t ouiiy}; 
Sectorils6uei-..         Project:{sjaug
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                            Progress (IP)  Objectie (DO)
Road investment                Fourth Highway Project
Road construction              Fifth Highway Project         S            S
Road investment program        Transport Sector Project      S            S
Adjustment program             Third Structural Adjustment   S            S
Credit
Technical Assistance           Transport Technical Assistance  S          S
Project                              l
-9-



Other development agencies
European Union                 Several projects
French Agency for Development  Several projects
African Development Bank       Several projects
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The most significant lessons learned from the Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project (ICR
No 20044, February 14, 2000) are the following:
(a)   Continuity in Bank support strategy, through successive projects (investments and
macroeconomic or sectoral adjustments), is essential for supporting the different phases of
reforms and for consolidating those achieved under previous projects. This project would
consolidate and complete the reforms implemented under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC III), and the Transport Sector Project, especially those related to port reform and the Road
Fund.
(b)   In the absence of adequate incentives, structural reforms could not have been
implemented. This project would provide leverage for improving the financing and management
of urban road maintenance.
(c)   Implementation of distinct phases of separate sub-sector reforms, each targeting a
set of priority objectives, is more realistic for the UCD than the implementation of an integrated
program with multiple objectives. Thus, the project objectives are limited to improving urban
road management and maintenance, adapting the successful experience of the Road Fund.
Other lessons learned from Cameroon and other countries consider that the financing of
maintenance and appropriate management and execution of maintenance are the key elements for
road projects sustainability.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has demonstrated a strong commitment to implementing the transport sector
reforms. Several operations have already been initiated with donors, HIPC funds and the Road
Fund to start the rehabilitation of the road network in Douala and improve the land transport
system. The transfer of resources from the central Government to the UCD has dramatically
increased. A special account for road maintenance has been set up at the UCD and this account is
replenished regularly. The Road Fund has also mobilized and increased dramatically the
allocations for urban road maintenance. The UCD has initiated, in addition to the studies carried
out for improving the road traffic system and for the program of rehabilitation, several operations
of road maintenance and drainage network cleaning. The commitment of the UCD and the
Government to results and benchmarks are formalized in the contract of objectives they have
agreed upon. The monitoring of this contract is financed by AFD.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA's participation in this project will help achieve the CAS and PRSP's objectives, and
- 10 -



consolidate the transport reforms already irnplemented for port operations and land transport.
Improvement of Douala port operations, supported by the SAC III, depends also on the efficiency
of its interface with land transport, especially so as the port of Douala plays an important role for
regional integration as it also serves as the port for Chad, Central Africa Republic, and Congo.
IDA supported the creation of the Road Fund which finances only part of urban road
maintenance. Bank support in this project would ensure continuity of improvement in the whole
transport chain, in addition to benefits from its experience in urban transport projects and capacity
to leverage donors' financing support with policy reforms and capacity building in the sector. The
Bank review of public expenditures and the set up of secure financing mechanism for road
maintenance will ensure adequate transfers of funds to UCD for road maintenance.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project-file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$62.82 million; ERR = 32 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The cost benefit analysis has been conducted on the entire road network to be rehabilitated. The benefit of
the project includes reduced vehicle operating costs and time saving costs, and the costs include investment,
regular and periodic maintenance costs. The discount rate of 12% has been considered as the current
discount rate in Cameroon and applied to the calculation of the Net Present Value (NPV). This analysis
does not take into account the project's impact on the national and sub-regional economy.
The result of the economic analysis shows that NPV of US$ 62.83 million and ERR of 32% for the entire
network to be rehabilitated. The assumptions used for the calculation are very conservative and the indirect
benefits to be brought to the non-rehabilitated road sections and to the economic activities of the city are
not taken into account. Both NPV and ERR will be much higher if those indirect benefits are properly
quantified and reflected in the calculation. It is therefore judged that the project is feasible. The sensitivity
analysis also confirms the economic feasibility of the project.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
NA
Fiscal Impact:
NA
3. Technical:
The preliminary rehabilitation studies were carried out recently. The project consists of rehabilitation of
existing roads and their drainage systems, improvement of intersections, and installation of road signs,
traffic lights, and parking spaces for taxis and buses. The design for the pavement reconstruction is based
on past experience. Other labor intensive alternatives for pavement such as paving stones or paving with
concrete, will be considered during the preparation of detailed engineering studies for low traffic roads and
parking.
4. Institutional:



4.1 Executing agencies:
UCD is the executing agency. It has the minimum capacity to manage the road network and the
project. UCD will set up a project unit to implement the project.
4.2 Project management:
UCD will manage the project with the support of consulting finns for technical and financial
aspects. A Coordinating Committee and the Environment Unit of the Ministry of Public Works
will monitor project execution.
4.3 Procurement issues:
UCD will handle procurement matters. Its procurement capacity will be enhanced by technical
assistance (consultant in charge of works supervision). The new Cameroonian Decree on
procurement (Decree 2002/030 dated January 28, 2002) allows the UCD to set up its own "
Commission de passation des marches", and requests clearance from the national "Commission
specialisee de contr6le des Marches". The Decree allows less than 14 days to the Conmmision de
controle to provide its clearance or comments. Based on this rule, it is expected that procurement
will be carried out without delay. However, if the legal durations for review are not respected,
IDA will suspend the project untill appropriate actions are taken by the Borrower.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The UCD will set up a small project unit (PU) to assure project implementation. The PU will be
part of the "Services Techniques de la CUD". It will include an accountant and will be supported
by a local accounting finn.  The establishment of a good financial management system
acceptable to IDA and the appointment of a qualified accountant is a condition for Credit
effectiveness. A firm will be recruited to assist the UCD in setting up a reliable and efficient
financial management system in the PU. Its mission comprises: (i) preparing administrative,
budgetary, accounting, and financial procedures; (ii) assisting the UCD in choosing and installing
the software; and (iii) supporting the PU in financial and accounting management during the first
year of the project. A detailed financial and accounting procedures manual with an internal
financial control, including an appropriate accounting plan, will be completed before Credit
effectiveness. The special Account and the Project Account will be opened on the name of the
Caisse Autonome. Project Counterpart funds will be mobilized annually up front (for project
account and for road maintenance account replenishment).
Financial reports produced would include: (a) financial statements expressed in CFAF (drawn up
in accordance with generally accepted Cameroonian accounting practices); (b) financial
statements for the project in US dollars, and in Special Drawing Rights; (c) reports on the Special
Accounts; and (d) statements of expenditures. Reports will be produced in accordance with
accounting principles acceptable to IDA (International Accounting Norms are acceptable to IDA).
Financial statements would be produced each year. Project financial statements would be prepared
every six months.
An independent auditor's opinion and report satisfactory to IDA, on statements and reports will
be provided within six months of the close of the fiscal year for the annual reports. Special
Accounts, Project Accounts, and SOEs will be included in the audits and specifically addressed in
- 12 -



the audit reports. The auditor's report will also include a statement on the adequacy of the
accounting systems and internal controls, the reliability of SOEs as a basis for Credit
disbursements, and compliance with financial covenants. The foregoing accounting, financial
reporting, and auditing arrangements should provide adequate and timely information to IDA for
project supervision. Auditors acceptable to IDA, with TORs acceptable to IDA and in
accordance with the Bank document "General Accounting Manual - Financial Information and
Audits - FARAH" dated January 1995, will be appointed prior to Credit effectiveness.
5. Environmental:              Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summnarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project consists of the rehabilitation of existing urban roads. The impact of the works is
expected to imnprove the traffic conditions, safety, and reduce air pollution.
The project is a straightforward infrastructure project of mainly repaving and rehabilitating the
existing urban roads. For the rehabilitation of roads, earth from quames (existing or new) might
be needed. Environmental Standard Operating Procedures developed by Environment Unit of the
Ministry of Public Works for road construction will be applied to the project, including the
presence of an environmental specialist for work supervision. The contractor has to include an
environmental management plan (EMP) in the project design and in the program of works. This
EMP should be approved by the Environmnent Unit. The discharge of waste oil from car engines is
most likely one of the major pollutants in Douala.
There are no feasible alternatives for existing urban road rehabilitation programs. Standard
construction techniques will be used, as applied worldwide by road contractors.
The quarries that would be used would be managed according to the rules established by the
Direction d'environnement on the subject. The Environment Unit of the Ministry of Public Works
for road construction will be fully involved in monitoring the environmental/social aspects of the
rehabilitation works. A pilot approach will be tested to minimize the pollution caused by the
discharge of waste oil from car engines through an analysis of feasible collection and recycling
mechanisms.
The project will improve road safety by several means, i.e., traffic lights, special areas for bus
stops and taxi parking, and improvement of side walks. The Unit in charge of the road
maintenance will handle the drainage network. In addition, the project will finance a study to
review the solid and liquid waste management system for the whole city. Implementation of a
solid and liquid waste management plan will be included in the upcoming urban management
project.
Air pollution is expected to be reduced as the consumption of gasoline will decrease with the
improvement of the pavement and the vehicle speeds. However, this issue will be reviewed
during the detailed engineering studies following the recommendations of the Urban Air Quality
Management Initiative.
- 13 -



Key stakeholders are people living and having their businesses along the roads to be rehabilitated
and other city road users and other transporters. The roads to be rehabilitated are major urban
arteries. The Environmental Analysis for the project was made available for comments to the
people located along the roads to be rehabilitated. Its availability was announced in the
newspapers on January 7, 2002. The EMP was also sent to the Bank Infoshop on January I1,
2002.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
A separate Enviromnental Assessment (EA) is available and includes a simple and straightforward
EMP. This EMP includes the environmental actions to be undertaken during project
implementation, who will be responsible, the environmental and social monitoring arrangements,
reporting mechanisms, and a budget to finance its implementation. The proper implementation of
the EMP would be a legal requirement,- and be included in the legal documents. The final EMP
was sent to IDA on March 13, 2002 The implementation arrangements for the execution of the
EMP are already established by another World Bank-financed project with the Cameroon Ministry
of Public Works (Roads Department) which have been judged satisfactory by World Bank
environmental staff.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timneline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of fmal draft: EMP received by the Bank on January
3, 2002; disclosed in the country on
January 7, and sent to the Bank
Infoshop on January 11, 2002.
Final report received on March 13,
2002 and sent to Infoshop.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the enviromnental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultation of public at large. The information and consultation regarding the execution of works and
their environmental impact had been largely disseminated in the city houses of the Urban Commnunity of
Douala, the local radio, TV, and newspapers. Public postages had also been in the streets of Douala.
Records were opened in the city houses to allow the public to provide their feedback. The assessment of
the feedback shows a very large and positive consensus and approval for the proposed works. The
consultation, the first one for the CUD projects in Douala, was very well appreciated by the population of
Douala.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Satisfactory environmental and social monitoring arrangements are being made and will be put in
place to monitor the proper execution of the EMP. Environmental standard operating procedures
have been developed for the road sector in Cameroon. These are at present being applied to all
road rehabilitation and construction activities in Cameroon, including the monitoring of the
environmental issues in the present project.
- 14 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
There are no key social issues. This project is expected to improve the living conditions of people
living along these roads as well as the opportunities of small business people located along these
roads.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Consultations with the transport unions, representatives of the industry sector, the Port of Douala,
and traders were carried out during the prelimninary studies.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See above.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Institutional arrangements for road management and maintenance.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Surveys and traffic studies.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
'  -   '> ' "'',',",', Policy i , ,,s ' z  , S '"9" I''''Applicabilityl.
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats_OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Ministry of Public Works, with support from the World Bank and the.European Union, has
prepared a set of environmental recommendations and guidelines to be used in road design,
construction, and maintenance. In addition, the project sponsors have prepared an Environmental
Assessment and an EMP which describes the environmental management measures to be
implemented during project construction.
- 15 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of this project depends on adequate financing and execution of urban road maintenance.
Financing is related to the sustainabiity of: (i) the Road Fund, and thus to the consumption of petroleum
products, the road user taxes, the collection of these taxes, their transfer to the Road Fund, and allocation
of sufficient funds from the Road Fund for urban road maintenance; (ii) transfer of other taxes and funds
from the central Government to the municipalities and to the UCD, especially for urban road maintenance;
and (iii) the set up of replenishment mechanism of the road maintenance account. The Road Fund created
in 1999 is operating very well, as the consumption of petroleum products increased with the recovery of the
economy, and the taxes are collected and allocated regularly. Transfer of the taxes "additional centimes"
from the central Govermment to municipalities has improved with the economic recovery. The UCD is
willing and has agreed to strengthen the transport and road management unit and improve road
maintenance. The road maintenance account, set up by UCD, is similar to the Road Fund. Its adequate
replenishment by the Government and the UCD with a secure mechanism, and the improvement of urban
road management will insure the sustainability of the project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk         . 4ii. k- , RlskRatn     .it           latIon Measure-
From Outputs to Objective
Inadequate allocation of funds for         S        PIP, Budgets, Public Expenditure Reviews,
maintenance                                          secure mechanism of replenishment of the road
maintenance account, and Road Fund Reviews
by IDA and IMF mitigate this risk
Inefficient execution of road maintenance  M         Strengthening UCD capacity, supervision and
use of competent consultants
Insufficient capacity of the road          M        Provision of technical assistance if needed to
management unit                                     enhance the unit capacity
From Components to Outputs
Non-allocation of project counterpart      S        PIP, Budgets, and Public Expenditure Reviews
funds on a timely manner                            Funds mobilized up front, annually.
Environmental and social aspects not       M        Project design and bidding documents will
addressed                                           include these aspects, and close supervision by
the Environment Unit of the Ministry of Public
Works
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
- 16 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Project conditions of effectiveness are:
-      The Project Account has been opened and replenished with the initial deposit of CFAF
1,000,000,000;
-      UCD has adopted a Project Implementation Manual, including financial management procedures,
acceptable to IDA;
-       JUCD has hired an accounting firn, acceptable to IDA, for project financing management and set
up an appropriate system for project finance management;
-      Appointment by UCD of auditors acceptable to IDA;
-      Submission by UCD of bidding documents for the civil works to be carried out under the Project,
in form and substance satisfactory to IDA;
-      The Consultant for work supervision and control and technical assistance has been appointed by
UCD;
-      The subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and UCD transferning the Credit funds as grant to
UCD has been signed; and
-      UCD has established the Project Unit as part of its technical services, with fuctions for the
implementation of the Project acceptable to IDA, and a Project Unit Manager, a Financial Specialist, a
Procurement Specialist and two Civil Engineers.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
-      UCD will maintain the Road Maintenance Account on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA;
-      Not later than November 30, 2002 the Borrower will deposit into the Road Maintenance Account
an amount equivalent to CFAF 1,105,000,000;
-      Thereafter, the Borrower will replenish such account with an amount satisfactory to IDA, and
sufficient for and applied to the financing of maintenance of the roads included in the Urban Roads
Network of Douala.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
OI 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
OI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
An interim Project Implementation Manual has been reviewed during appraisal and the framework for the
final Manual has been approved.
The existing technical studies allow the Prequalification of contractors to be finished before effectiveness.
Detailed engineering studies will be ready by effectiveness.
- 17 -



Technical assistance for finance management, procurement, and technical aspects will be recruited and
operational befor effectiveness.
Several studies on urban development will be launched before effectiveness, based on the results of the
ongoing sector work on urban development.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Project audit contracts are under category "Services" for procurement and disbursement percentage
reasons.
,;sL~~~ A                                          L     C4 
Abdelghani Inal                   M, voe       s s-Fraissard       Robert Calderisi
Team Leader                       SflorManager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 18 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CAMEROON: DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT.
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:       Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Maintain and develop the  Status of the networks    Sector reports           Programming would not focus
road network in both urban  Expenditures on road   Public Expenditure Reviews  on the poorest regions. This
and rural areas.          maintenance.                                       risk could be mitigated by
balancing the programming
between economic growth and
poverty-alleviation
subprojects.
Funds for counterpart and for
maintenance would not be
made available. This risk is
mitigated by the Public
Expenditure Reviews and
secure mechanisms of
financing.
Improve port efficiency and  Transport costs and transit  Port management and traffic  Improvement will not directly
economic competitiveness  time reduced (indicators  data (audits)            benefit the poor.
monitored through the SAC
IlI Project)
Project Development       Outcome I Impact         Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:
Improve the efficiency of  23 Km of primary roads  Supervision (SPN) reports,  Other important roads not
Douala's transport system  rehabilitated           technical and financial audits rehabilitated or maintained.
connecting the port and the  Travel times on the main  surveys               A follow-up urban project will
industrial areas and their  roads reduced by 42% after                       be prepared focusing on the
hinterlands               rehabilitation                                     whole network and on the
Vehicle operating costs                            poorest neighborhoods.
reduced by 42.3% after roads
rehabilitation
Strengthen urban road    Institutional framework   SPN, audits               Insufficient maintenance
management and maintenance enhanced                                          (funding and execution)
Maintenance financing
secured (Budgets and
expenditures) see para. below
Competent staff recruited in
the road management unit (at
least 3 highways engineers)
Output from each          Output Indicators:       Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:



Urban roads rehabilitated  23 Km of main roads    SPN, audits              Other roads connecting the
port and industrial area to
their hinterlands are not
rehabilitated
Technical Assistance     Staffing: finance,       SPN, audits               Road management not
procurement and technical                         strengthened
Urban strategy and       specialists                                       Upgrading activities for the
investment program                                                         whole city are not possible
Studies carried out on
institutional aspects, city
development strategies, slum
upgrading, provision of basic
services to the poor,...
Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:          component)                                        Outputs)
Road Rehabilitation      58.13 (46.50)            SPN, audits              Counterpart funds not
available
Technical assistance     12.86 (9.00)             SPN, audits
Support for implementation  0.35 (0.25)           SPN, audits
and monitoring
(lJS$million)
( ) IDA financed
Replenishment of the Road Maintenance Account and expenditures on road maintenance during the following
fiscal years: 2002: CFAF 1,105 Million; 2003: CFAF 2,545 Million; 2004: CFAF 3,810 Million; 2005:
CFAF 5,205 Million; 2006: CFAF 5,955 Million; and the following fiscal years CFAF 6,000 Million per year.
- 20 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CAMEROON: DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT.
Detailed Description
The city of Douala, with a population of 2 million inhabitants and an area of 300 sq kms accounts
for around 80% of Cameroon's industrial activities. Almost 100% of the port activities (about 6
million tons of traffic a year) for Cameroon, Chad, and the Central Republic of Africa, are also
located in Douala. Only 450 kms of Douala's 1,800 kms of roads are paved. The roads in the city
are mostly in poor condition, due to heavy traffic; very hot and humid weather, marked by a lot of
rains; and a lack of financial resources for maintenance since the economic depression. The lack of
resources has caused the neglect of maintenance of roads and the drainage and sanitation systems.
The increase in traffic without any construction of new roads has caused heavy traffic congestion,
especially with the increase of road deterioration. The current situation of the main roads
connecting the port and the industrial area to their hinterlands inhibits the transport of people and
goods from and to the port and the industrial areas, all the more since some excessively
deteriorated road sections have been closed to traffic.
With the support of the French Cooperation and the French Development Agency, the
Government and the Urban Community of Douala (UCD) prepared an emergency rehabilitation
program of the most strategic roads to unlock the port and the industrial areas of Douala. After
technical (a traffic and circulation study was also carried out, including parking areas, and public
transportation), environmental, and economic and social assessments conducted in a participatory
manner with the most affected stakeholders (transport, port, and industrial unions, and workers),
a first rehabilitation program including the roads below has been identified:
. Section A: Boulevard de la Besseke - Pont Joss 2,000 m
. Section B: Pont Joss - Place Leclerc 600 m
. Section C: Boulevard portuaire - Entree pont sur le Wouri 600 m
. Section D: Ndokoti - Av. Japoma - Bd de l'unite - Place Leclerc 2,300 m from PK 1.9 to PK 4.2
. Section E: Rue de Japoma (Camp Yabassi - Ndokoti) 3,900 m
. Section F: "Penetrante Est" (KP 10 to KP 14) 4,050 m
. Section G: Rue de Japoma (Ndokoti - Logbaba - Japoma) 6,000 m
. Section H: Carrefour Ndokoti - Axe lourd Douala - Yaounde 2.900 m (PKl . 1 to 4.00)
Intersection I: intersection Section H - Axe lourd Douala
Background
The natural conditions of Douala (geology, weather, and topography) are very constraining and
challenging for the infrastructure, requiring more frequent maintenance, at higher costs. The
geological conditions are not suited to road construction: bad soil with a high concentration of
- 21 -



clay. The weather conditions are no better, with abundant rain (4 to 6 meters of rain per year),
prone to bush vegetation, that grows even through concrete surfaces, and increases the need for
maintenance works, particularly for drainage and sanitation systems. The topography is also
problematic: the flat surface of the city prevents water from flowing down normally.
In addition to the bad natural conditions, the economic depression and the rapid and anarchic
urban growth have contributed to the degradation of the road network. Until 1988, a certain
economic prosperity offered investment capacity that enabled the city of Douala to plan its
long-terrn development, such as an urban master plan in 1983. The Urban Community of Douala
was created in 1987, at a time when the economic crisis that dramatically reduced its fiscal
revenues was about to take place. Many of the projects identified as priorities for the city of
Douala, including the completion of the existing road network, to link the urban extensions to the
inner city moribund, and improving the crossing of the Wouri river, were supposed to accompany
a sustainable urban growth, but were delayed, and most of them remain even today. The UCD had
no funds (the cities produced 60% of the fiscal resources, and only 1% was transferred to them)
for the development or maintenance of the infrastructure, which suffered rapid and constant
degradation; meanwhile the population, and therefore the number of vehicles kept increasing,
without additional infrastructure to support this growth. The last main reason for the degradation
and in some areas the destruction of the road network is the function of certain roads and the
traffic they carry: many axes are used by heavy traffic. It is known that the effects of heavy traffic
are even more destructive on urban roads than on inter-urban roads because of the effects of
mechanical shearing due to the low speed traffic, congestion, and the many changes in direction.
Current situation
Urban growth is still increasing (it has reached a rate of 6-7%, and is expected to continue in the
years to come), and Cameroon is recovering from its economic depression and the access to the
port and industrial areas are strategic for economic growth, employment, and poverty alleviation.
Access of industrial areas
There are four industrial areas in Douala: three in the Eastern part (left bank of the Wouri), and
one in Bonab6ri - Western part of Douala (right bank). The access to the three eastern industrial
areas depends on the "carrefour de Ndokoti". This junction was created in 1953, in the outskirts,
as an access to the first industrial area. Today, without any remodeling or upgrading, it is the
epicenter of the city, structuring the distribution and traffic in all the Eastern part of the city, and
providing access to large industrial areas requiring heavy transport means. It is not well-adapted
to the traffic and is permanently saturated. The Bonaberi industrial area has quite a few industries,
most of which depend on the traffic conditions in the transit itinerary, including the Wouri bridge.
The industrial areas are serviced by main axes that are in particularly bad condition; in some cases
the pavement has entirely disappeared in large sections, causing mud flows during heavy rain.
Port accessibility
Most of the traffic with the province, the rest of the country, and the neighboring countries (Chad
and Central African Republic) avoids the inner part of the city; it goes through the Eastern road to
- 22 -



Yaounde and the "Boulevard Leclerc" before crossing the Wouri bridge towards the Western and
Northern parts of the country. On this last axis, crossing Bonaberi often results in problems and
serious nuisance.
The case of the Wouri bridge
The Wouri bridge is the only crossing point over this river in Douala. It enables both sides of the
city to communicate and ensures the traffic of goods coming from the West (bananas, various
consumier goods, and gas) and from the industrial areas of Bonaberi (especially cement). It is
equipped with two road lanes and one train track. Built in 1953, this pre-stressed concrete bridge
has not been maintained for many years, and studies have evidenced probable degradations
representing major risks to its stability. Rehabilitation is urgently needed as the collapse of this
bridge would have dramatic consequences for Cameroon's economy. The bridge carries a
significant volume of traffic and it is an essential point to the organization of the urban and
national network. Before launching into the construction of a second bridge, upstream
from this one, as recommended in the master plan of the city, it is necessary to ensure traffic
continuity. The existing bridge, which has an absorption capacity of 30,000 vehicles, should be
reinforced by the UCD and made safer for users. Its rehabilitation, financed by the French Agency
for Development, will increase the traffic on all roads linked to it, most of which are included in
this project.
Urban mobility
The rapid urban growth and the degradation of the road network without any extension or
maintenance of the existing infrastructure have made the transport of people and goods very
difficult. After the liquidation of the urban transport public company, SOTUC, an entire market of
public transportation opened, with the emergence of taxis and moto-taxis, contributing to a new
type of congestion, with taxis parking everywhere, and mostly in the lanes reserved for traffic.
Urban mobility has deteriorated sharply, and many people (especially the poor) cannot afford the
transport of their goods or of themselves.
Road safety and vehicle operating costs
The poor road safety in Cameroon is mainly due to: (i) defects and/ or absence of road signaling
and lighting (pedestrians and vehicles are not always visible); (ii) the disrespect of the traffic code;
(iii) poor road conditions; (iv) chaotic parking of certain vehicles dangerous for vehicular traffic
and pedestrians; and (v) vehicle conditions: the fleet of vehicles is very old. Moreover, the vehicle
operating costs are extremely high because of the road conditions: it is possible to break an
axletree while riding one of the main roads in Douala. People are reluctant to invest in new
vehicles, and have to be constantly repairing the vehicles they own. The frequent need for vehicle
repair reduces the efficiency of the transport system, increases transport costs, and ultimately
finally reduces the competitiveness.
Air pollution
- 23 -



The bad condition of the roads forces drivers of vehicles to use mostly their first and second
gears, which represent the highest fuel consumption, and gas emission. Moreover, road users are
not inclined to change or renew their vehicles given such a bad road etwork.
Maintenance of the roads and the drainage systems
Certain roads have suffered much degradation, and have had so little maintenance, if any, that
they have become too dangerous and have been closed to traffic. The situation cannot improve
without complete rehabilitation, since most of the roads have gone past their life expectancy, and
the tons of pozzolana and other materials dumped on the road to enable traffic to move have
poured into the gutters and drainage system, blocking an already insufficient system. The
rehabilitation of the certain road sections in the project is an urgent necessity: the infrastructure
should be rehabilitated to provide the service that it was meant for, and this service must be
continued after rehabilitation. Financial and institutional devices should be set up to guarantee the
sustainability of the works and ensure periodic maintenance. A contract on objectives, prepared
with assistance of the FDA, has already been signed between the UCD and the Government. This
has enabled the setting up of a road maintenance account, jointly replenished by the local
communities and the Government, and the modalities of participation of the communities in the
infrastructure maintenance. Periodic maintenance will also be required for the drainage system, to
avoid flooding of houses along the roads, and the stagnation of the water that could lead to health
and sanitation problems.
Description of the road rehabilitation program
The rehabilitation and development of the infrastructure in the project are part of a complete
structural and functional road program to improve the communication and access to the port and
industrial areas of Douala.
Intersections
All the intersections for each section have been reviewed in detail, according to the traffic study,
and in consultation with the stakeholders. There are 16 main intersections, which will be improved
and equipped with traffic lights. In addition, the signaling system will be reviewed and upgraded
to improve traffic safety.
Parking
The lack of parking has forced road users to use existing roads as parking spaces, reducing road
capacity and traffic. Parking is mainly forbidden along the main axes, parking paces are projected
in certain areas, especially for taxis and minibuses, which are for the moment entirely
disorganized, and forced to park illegally everywhere to satisfy their clients. It should be noted
that the volume of taxis represents more than 50% of Douala's traffic on certain axes. Parking,
and stopping at any time, and everywhere can be extremely dangerous for road users; once the
parking will have been provided for the taxis, it will be the responsibility of the city of Douala to
ensure that it is respected.
- 24 -



Street Lighting
The lighting of the road network covered by the project will also be rehabilitated, completed, and
modemized to ensure the security of road users. This also represents an important improvement
for the inhabitants of Douala, who will feel more secure at night.
Drainage
All the drainage system for the roads under the project will be improved and part of it will be
redesigned to avoid flooding, and will improve the current situation dramatically. The best
solution for the drainage and sanitation is the treatment and removal of the mud in the natural
drains, and to have a nonnal functioning of the systems. This solution would also have a positive
impact on the public health in Douala through coverage of the districts kept unhealthy by the
presence of the muddy drains, often full of polluted water, and a source of malaria and endemic
diseases.
Road rehabilitation costs
Based on the preliminary study carried out, the project civil works costs included taxes are as
follows:
To be fi nanced
Sectlon
Secfion    length          Desctiptlon of itinerary      DA     Govemment    Total
A          2,000 Besseke - Fbnt Joss                   2,060       515      2,575
B          1,200 Pont Joss - Place Leclerc               714       179        893
C           600 Bd portualre - Pont sur le Wourl       1,008       252      1,260
D          6,300 Ndokotf - Place marechal Leclerc      1,706       427      2,133
E         3,900 Rue de Japoma (Camp Yabassi - Ndokoff)  3,934      984      4,918
F         4,050 Pen6trante Est (KP 10 to KP 14)        4,232      1,058     5,290
G          6,000 Rue de Japomna (Ndokob - Japoma)      5,961      1,490     7,451
H          4,000 Ndokofl - Axe lourd Douala - Yaound6  5,950      1,488     7,438
Echangeur axes 10 - axe lourd          2,727       682      3,409
Total Works (tax-free)                28,292      7,073    35,365
Contingencies                          5,658      1,415     7,073
_______   Total Included taxes                 33,950     8,488     42,438
. ____ US$ million                            46.51      11.63     58.12
By Component:
Project Component I - US$58.13 mililon
IDA financing US$46.50 million
Roads rehabilitation (see table above)
Project Component 2 - US$12.86 million
IDA financing US$9.00 million
-25 -



Provision of technical assistance for
- Road rehabilitation design and supervision with the support of an international consulting firm
(two senior engineers) US$4.30 million
- Technical assistance to strengthen UCD for road management and maintenance and environment
US$0.50 million
- Audits and project financing management support US$0.40 million
- Preparation of an urban strategy and project, the studies to be carried out will be agreed upon
with IDA, depending on the objectives of the  urban strategy; US$3.50 million
- Training on road management, maintenance, accounting, and procurement US$ 0.3 million
Project Component 3 - USS 0.35 million
IDA financing US$0.25 million
Support to the units on charge of project implementation (UCD project unit, PCC and Environmental unit
of the M1NTP) financing the incremental operating costs.
-26 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CAMEROON: DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT.
1. Roads rehabilitation                                     4.63         39.24         43.87
2. Technical Assistance                                     4.76          8.10         12.86
3. Support to the Project Unit                               0.11         0.25          0.36
Total Baseline Cost                                          9.50        47.59         57.09
Physical Contingencies                                     0.59          6.54          7.13
Price Contingencies                                        0.59          6.54          7.13
Total Project Costs'              10.68         60.67         71.35
Total Financing Required               10.68         60.67         71.35
Goods                                                         0.01           0.09          0.10
Works                                                        16.28          41.85         58.13
Services                                                      4.76           8.10         12.86
Operating costs                                               0.10           0.16          0.26
Total Project Costs      21.15          50.20         71.35
Total Financing Required      21.15 J        50.20         71.35
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 71 95 (US$mn). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 78.32% of
total project cost net of taxes
-27 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
CAMEROON: DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT.
Unit: Billion CFA Francs
[For projects with benefits that are measured In monetary terms]
ffTaxes 1&jA. .'
Benefits:                   222.4
Costs:                       80.4
Net Benefits:                45.9
IRR:                         32%
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The cost benefit analysis has been conducted for the entire network to be rehabilitated. The traffic
volume including induced and diverted traffic is based on the traffic survey conducted in
September 2000. The investment cost is based on the project design and its estimate. The
reduction in travel time and vehicle operating costs is considered as the benefit. A discount rate of
12% has been utilized. This analysis does not take into account the project's impact on the
national and sub-regional economics. The result of economic calculation shows that the project is
economically feasible, and that of sensitivity analysis also shows the same conclusion. In this
analysis, the assumptions employed for the calculation are judged to be conservative, and the
indirect benefits, such as the effect on the other roads in the city, have not been considered. These
elements further reinforce the economic feasibility of the project.
Main Assumptions:
Within the framework of the feasibility study of this project, a traffic survey was conducted in the
city of Douala in September, 2000. The major activity of this survey included traffic counting,
original to destination (OD) survey. The traffic counting posts placed in the sections of the roads
to be rehabilitated under the project. The traffic survey only includes the road sections to be
rehabilitated and does not include the entire road network of the city.
The daily traffic is estimated between 26,000 to 30,000 vehicles in the majority of the major axes,
except the one which combines the intersections at Ndokoti (Carrefour Ndokoti) and with
Douala-Yaounde highway (Axe lourd Douala Yaounde). The daily traffic is 8,560 vehicles in that
- 28 -



section. The low volume traffic is also observed in the major axes serving to the suburban areas of
Douala. The traffic volume was 3,500 vehicles on the old road to Yaounde (ancienne route de
Yaounde) and 6,600 vehicles on Avenue Japoma.
It was estimated that the night time traffic (between 8PM and 6AM) would be around 12% of the
day time traffic. The traffic survey revealed the type of vehicle and its volume of traffic. It is
observed that 50% to 70% of the traffic comprises taxis and minibuses. It is even higher at the
exit of the city. The traffic of heavy trucks are concentrated in the major axes. In the other
sections, it is the light trucks which comprise the large part of the truck traffic. The trucks
account for 1% to 2% of the total traffic in those sections.
The current travel time of the traffic on the road section to be rehabilitated is based on the actual
measurement in the traffic survey. The travel time after the rehabilitation has been calculated
based on the design. On the other hand, the travel costs and time on the detour route were
estimated, taking into consideration the surface condition and the traffic level.
The traffic volume in the entire network is estimated to increase at 4% per annum. Larger increase
of traffic is expected from the areas where further urbanization is foreseen. It is expected that the
degree of urbanization in suburban areas will certainly be accelerated with the improvement of
access roads under this project.
The diverted traffic has been taken into consideration for three routes. The first one is Avenue
Japoma between Ndokoti and Cite SIC intersections (Section 6). The current traffic using this
section is expected to divert to the parallel avenue located in the north of Avenue Japoma. The
second diversion is in Boulevard du President Amadou Ahidjo (Section 6), between Boulevard de
la Republique and Place Leclerc. The vehicles will divert either to the north of Boulevard du
President Amadou Ahidjo via Boulevard de la Republique or to the south through Boulevard de la
Libert& The third diversion is between Ndokoti intersection and Axe lourd Douala Yaounde
(Section 10). However, the majority of the vehicle is expected to come back to that road section
through Boulevard des Nations Unies.
Estimate of Economic Costs
Time saving and the vehicle operating costs are the benefits considered in this economic analysis.
The hourly cost of the labor of a person was calculated based on the differences of the GDP per
capita value between France and Cameroon. It is considered that this amount underestimates the
real time value of the people traveling within the city.
The vehicle operating cost (VOC) is quoted from the other traffic studies conducted in the same
region (Central African Republic and Congo-Brazzaville). The notion of "personal vehicle unit
(unite de voiture particuliere; uvp)" has been introduced in order to calculate the VOC of the
categories of vehicles other than the personal vehicle which is a four-door sedan. The VOCs of
those vehicle have been calculated by multiplying the "personal vehicle unit". This assumption
underestimates the benefit, as the reduction of VOC of the heavy trucks will be proportionally
- 29 -



greater than a simple multiplication of "personal vehicle unit".
The result of the Economic Analysis
The NPV of the project is 45.9 billion CFA Francs (US$ 62.8 million) and the Economic Rate of
Return of the entire network is 32%. This result exceeds the current discount rate.
The basis of the economic calculation is considered to be very conservative, because of the limited
availability of data. In addition, the benefits of the rehabilitation used in the calculation do not
include the other benefits, such as the decrease in travel time and economic cost of the traffic in
the other section of the road network, as well as the reduction of maintenance costs for the road
sections which are currently utilized as the detour. If these benefits are appropriately quantified
and integrated in the economic calculation, it is expected that both NPV and ERR will be much
higher. It can therefore be concluded that this project is economically feasible.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The sensitivity analysis has been conducted for the entire network for the following three cases;
first, the increase of construction cost by 10%, second, no increase in traffic after rehabilitation;
and third, the combination of the two. The following table summarizes the result of sensitivity
analysis.
(Unit: Billion CFA franc, %/o)
NPV                         ERR
10% increase in costs                  42.9                         29
0% increase in future traffic          28.6                         27
Combination of the two                 25.6                         25
conditions                 I_I
The result of the sensitivity analysis also justifies the economic feasibility of the project.
- 30 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CAMEROON: DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT.
Years Ending
(US$million)
Year I I Year 2   | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year5    I Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
lnvestmnent Costs         1.7        6.5      11.1       16.3      18.5      17.9      0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         1.7        6.5      11.1      16.3       18.5      17.9      0.0
,Total Financing             1.7       6.5       11.1      16.3      18.5      17.9       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  1.3       5.1        8.7      12.8      14.5      14.0       0.0
Govemment                 0.4        1.4       2.4       3.5       4.0       3.9       0.0
Central                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0                                                0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficlarles     0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     1.7       6.5      11.1       16.3      18.5      17.9       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 31 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CAMEROON: DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT.
Procurement
General
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) has been done in 2000 in Cameroon. The
national procurement system needs a major reform. Procedures for procurement of works, goods,
and services are weak in several areas. The Government seems to be ready to make changes in
this regard and is considering the Bank's assistance to help in the preparation of a new
procurement code, which is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2002. In the meantime,
Cameroon's procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA Guidelines. No special
exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit since Cameroon's procurement
practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local
regulations.
Guidelines
Works and Goods. Contracts for works will not exceed two or three important contracts for
road rehabilitation. Contracts for goods concern only procurement of vehicles, computers, etc, for
the project unit. Contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 revised in January and
August 1996,September 1997, and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, and
Standard Evaluation Report will be used for ICB. Under shopping procedures, the procedures
should ensure that: (i) methods used in evaluation of bids and the award of contracts are made
known to all bidders and not applied arbitrarily; (ii) any bidder is given adequate response time
(four weeks) for preparation and submission of bids; (iii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification
are clearly specified in bidding documents; (iv) no preference margin is granted to domestic
manufacturers ; (v) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; (vi) award will be made to
the lowest economically evaluated bidder in accordance with pre-determined and transparent
methods; (vii) bid evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons for rejecting any non-responsive
bid; and (viii) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents prepared as
annexes to the Project Implementation Manual are submitted to IDA and found acceptable before
the Credit effectiveness.
Consultant Services. Contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection and employment of Consultants by World Bank borrowers published
in January 1997 revised in September 1997, and January 1999. The Standard Request for
Proposal, as developed by the Bank, will be used for appointment of consultants. Simplified
contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e those not exceeding six months, carried out
by firms or individual consultants.
Advertising
- 32 -



Given the urgency of the project, a General Procurement Notice(GPN) for the first year of
operations has been prepared during the appraisal and will be issued in the United Nations
Development Business(UNDB) as well as in the local newspapers to advertise for any ICB for
Civil Works, and major consulting assignments to obtain expression of interest. The detailed GPN
for the subsequent years will be prepared for the project and published in UNDB. Specific
Procurement Notices (SPN) and Expressions of Interest (EOI) for large contracts for consultants
services (above US$ 200,000 equivalent) will also be advertised in Development business and
sufficient time will be allowed for responses to such specific notices (minimum 30 days) before
preparing the short-list.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
The overall responsibility for the implementation of the DOUALA Infrastructure Project is with
the Project Unit (PU). The PU is responsible for carrying out the procurement for all the Project
Components. To ensure proper implementation, the PU will include a project coordinator,
specialists to coordinate implementation of project components, one procurement officer and one
financial management specialist. The PIM (Project Implementation Manual) will define and
specifie the 'procedures for the internal control of procurement actions, the technical specifications
in each case, as well as reference to the model contracts as per the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents.
Procurement Capacity Assessment of the UCD to implement procurement
An assessment of procurement capacity of the UCD has been done, and helped set parameters for
prior review limits and the frequency of procurement supervision. Several members of UCD' staff
are reportedly not familiar with the Bank's guidelines for procurement and disbursement
procedures. It would be necessary for the staff UCD to have main procurement training. An
action plan has been established during the preparation of project to reinforce the UCD with his
new PU of DOUALA Infrastructure Project. This action plan has been discussed during
negotiations to correct any management deficiency in the implementation agency's capacity to
administer procurement in an efficient and transparent way. The action plan consists of: (i)
recruitrnent of a procurement proficient staff befor project effectiveness; (ii) procurement
workshop training under supervision of Bank procurement specialist based at the Cameroon
Country office and/or HQ; (iii) procurement training at the Regional procurement center
Dakar(Senegal);and (iv) under exceptional circumstances basis, hiring of short-term consultants.
RISKS
The risks identified in the assessment include: lack of a procurement officer clearly responsible for
project procurement; lack of procurement planning and lack of staff with planning skills; some
external influence on the appointment of individual consultants. The PU will take actions to
mitigate these risks, such as: revise PU staffs responsibilities and functions; appoint a qualified
procurement consultant for an initial period of twelve months and to provide further assistance
- 33 -



through short-term visits during project implementation; and favor the appointment of consulting
firms over individual consultants. In addition, the technical specialists in the PU must submit a
six-month procurement plan each semester to the PU s procurement proficient staff to facilitate
project implementation.
Procurement Plan
The procurement plan for the first year was prepared during appraisal. It is based on the initial
needs of the project's components. A draft of procurement plan developed by the Borrower for
project implementation which provides the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement
methods have been revised by bank procurement staff during the appraisal's mission. This plan
will be adjusted as necessary with the assistance of the procurement consultant to be appointed by
the PCU before the credit effectiveness.
Procurement Methods
The methods to be used for the procurement described below and the estimated amounts for each
method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values to be used for each method are
fixed and shown in Table B.
Works
Works contracts (2 or 3) concem the rehabilitation of urban roads; they would be carried out
under ICB.
Goods
Goods procured under this project will include computer equipment and software, electronic
information systems, other office equipment and materials, training material and publications,
vehicles and office locally available at economical price and costing less than US$ 30,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.10 millions will be procured through National
Shopping under procedures acceptable to IDA. These procedures would be based on a model
request for quotations satisfactory to the Association. For contract estimated to cost more than
US$30,000, per contract, ICB procedure will be used.
- 34 -



Consultants Services and Training
Consulting services financed by IDA would be for: (i) Consultancies on technical assistance to
strengthen UCD for road management and maintenance; (ii) Road rehabilitation design and
supervision; (iii) External's Audit and Project financing management; (iv) Preparation of an
urban strategy and project and, (v) Training. Consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$ 12.86
millions, would be hired in accordance with Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 revised September 1997, January 1999 (Consultant
Guidelines). Selection would be based on competition among qualified short-listed firms through
Quality-and cost-Based selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposals before
combining quality and cost evaluation by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. The
PU would ensure widely publicized expression of interest to get candidacy from consultants.
Based on agreed upon criteria, the implementation unit will maintain and update a list of
consultants which will be used to establish short-lists.
Short-Lists of consultants for contracts estimated under US$ 50.000 may be comprised entirely of
national consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms(at least three)are locally available at
competitive costs. This would particularly apply to contracts for auditing services. However, if
foreign firms have expressed interest for those contracts, they will not be excluded from
consideration.
Firms
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1,2 (other than the
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants Guidelines shall
apply.
Individuals
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$ 50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
IDA Reviews.
The review process would cover about US$58.13 millions of the contract amount for Works,
Goods (US$80,000), and consultants (US$12.8 millions). See Table B below. Selective
post-review of contracts awarded below the threshold level will be applied to about one in three
contracts and will be carried out by Bank staff or Using Consulting' firms as necessary (audits,
and other consultants).
Bank staff will also review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the
- 35 -



Borrower.    Prior IDA review for the selection of consultants will include the review of
budgets, short-lists, selection procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, contract
awards, and negotiated contracts. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the
recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than US$ 100.000 and US$
50.000 equivalent, respectively. For all consultant contracts subject to prior review(estimated
above US$ 100.000), opening the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the
Bank's no-objection on the technical evaluation.
Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
borrowers for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions.
For training abroad. The program, containing names of candidates, costs estimates, content of
courses, periods of training and selection of training institutions- will be reviewed by IDA
annually.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed. One supervision mission to be
carried out by the Association, every six months will include special procurement supervision for
post-review/audits in addition to the prior review supervision. This proposal is based on the
capacity assessment of the PU in accordance with the overall risk assessment. This review should
cover a sample of not less than 1 in 5 contracts signed.
Modification or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing to any material
extension, or any modification or waiver of the conditions of contracts that would increase
aggregate cost by more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower should specify the reasons
thereof and seek IDA' s prior non-objection for the proposed modification
Status of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM)
As a condition for effectiveness, the PU will finalize and submit to IDA: (a) a Project
Implementation Manual with a specific section on procurement, detailing (i) procedures for
planning, calling for bids, selecting contractors, suppliers and consultants, and (b)a Project
Implementation Plan and a Procurement Plan for the first years of operations;(ii) intemal
organization will be incorporate to better serve as a practical guide describing procedures agreed
upon the DCA. It will: (i)for supervision and control, including operational guidelines defining the
role of each executing agency and reporting requirements and (ii) disbursment procedures. The
procedures Manual will be examined and adopted before credit effectiveness. It will be a
condition of credit effectiveness. The draft Project Implementation Manual (PIM) developed by
the Borrower will be sent to Bank approval before the credit effectiveness.
After negotiations and before the credit effectiveness, the Government will review and agree with
IDA on: (a) a draft procurement plan; (b) standard bidding documents to be used under NCB
- 36 -



procedures for goods; and (c) a plan for training. The Government will also give assurance that it
will (a) use the Project hnplementation Manual;(b) use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents
for ICB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the selection and employment of consultants, and
the Standard Bid Evaluation Reports; (c) apply the procurement procedures and arrangements
outlined above;(d) update the procurement plan on a regular basis during annual reviews with
IDA and others donors, to compare target times and actual completion, and transmit it to'IDA,
during implementation, with all procurement-related documents; and (e) carry out, during annual
reviews, an assesment of the effectiveness of bidding procedures and perfornance, as they relate
to the program's procurement experience, and propose for IDA and other donors for
consideration any modification to the current procedures to the extent that would accelerate
procurement, while still maintaining compliance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines and
adequate control over contract awards and payments.
In addition, the decrees on procurement enacted in 2001 ensure that procurement phases do not
exceed the following target time periods:
Procurement Phases                       Maximum number of Weeks
Preparation of Bidding Documents         4(6 for large contracts)
4(6-10 for ICB)
Preparation of Bids by Bidders
2(4 for large contracts)
Bid Evaluation
2
Signature of Contracts
3
Payments
- 37 -



Prior Review Thresholds
The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement capacity assessment of
the project implementing unit and are summarized in Table B.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            58.13            0.00          0.00         0.00        58.13
(46.50)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (46.50)
2. Goods                             0.00            0.00          0.10          0.00        0.10
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0. 10)      (0.00)      (0. 1 0)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00          12.86         0.00       12.86
(0.00)          (0.00)        (9.00)        (0.00)      (9.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00            0.00          0.26          0.00        0.26
Operating costs                     (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.15)        (0.00)      (0.15)
Total                            58.13            0.00          13.22         0.00
(46.50)          (0.00)        (9.25)        (0.00)     (55.75)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
related to managing the project.
The total amount of 55.75 does not include the PPF amount (0.6)
- 38 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms             11.43    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.71    0.00     12.14
(8.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.50)  (0.00)  (8.50)
B. Individuals        0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.72    0.00     0.72
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.50)  (0.00)  (0.50)
Total 11.43    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    1.43   0.00     12.86
(8.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.00)  (0.00)  (9.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
-39-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
1. Works                above 200 equivalent          ICB                    58.13
All contracts
2. Goods                     below 30             national shoping            0.10
above 30                 ICB             for both, the first three
contracts, every year
3. Services
Firms                        above 100               QCBS                    11.43
below 50              Single source             0.71
Individuals                  above 50              Single source              0.43
below 50              Single source             0.29
4. M iscellaneous      ____________________                          ____________________
S. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$ 71.09 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
XThresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-40 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
1.     The credit will be disbursed over a period of six years. As disbursements are made under
traditional disbursement procedures (as opposed to the Project Management Report -PMR- based
disbursements), they will be fully documented at the time of submission of withdrawal applications, except
for expenditures made against SOEs. A Disbursement Schedule appears in Table C below. The
disbursement percentages should be applied to amounts with taxes.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Works                                  38.75                      80.00%
2. Goods                                  0.10               100% of foreign expenditures
80% of local expenditures
3. Consultants, audits and training       9.00                         70%
4. Operating costs                        0.15                         70%
5. Refinancing PPF                        0.60
6. Unallocated                            7.75
Total Project Costs                       56.35
Total                                     56.35
"Operating costs" means the incremental expenditures incurred on account ofproject implementation,
management and monitoring including office supplies, administrative support, communications, utility
services, travel, accomodation and supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's
civil service.
Special account:
2.     Under traditional Procedures: In order to facilitate project implementation, the Government will
open in a local commercial bank a Special Account "SA". The authorized allocations will be CFAF
300,000,000. The authorized allocation will cover four months' eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness,
an amount representing 50 percent of the authorized allocations will be deposited in the special account
untill the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 10 millions Replenishment applications will
be submitted at least monthly by the agencies.
Counterpart Funds and Project Account
3.     The Borrower will open in a local commercial bank a Project Account in which he will deposit an
initial amount of CFAF 1,000 million to finance its contributions to the expenditures required under the
project. It will, thereafter, during each following quarter, deposit into the Project Account the amount
required to cover the Borrower's counterpart contribution for each such following quarter, as deternined
by the Borrower and the Association; and ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Accounts will be
used exclusively to finance expenditures under the project other than those financed from the proceeds of
- 41 -



the Credit. The Project Account will be operated under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
4.     All replenishment requests will be fully documented except for: (a) contracts of less than
US$200,000 equivalent for civil works; US$100,000 equivalent for goods; US$100,000 equivalent for
consulting firm services, and US$50,000 equivalent for individual consulting services; and (b) operating
costs which may be claimed on the basis of SOEs. All supporting documentation for SOEs would be
retained by implementing agency for periodic review by IDA supervision rnissions and external auditors.
Financial Management Assessment
Accounting and Auditing
5.    In December 2001, an accredited FMS reviewed the existing accounting system of CDU (the
implementing entity) to assess whether CDU is able to maintain a financial management system including
accounting, financial reporting, adequate to ensure that they provide the Bank with accurate and timely
information regarding the use of project resources and expenditures. The review led to the following
conclusions: (i) CDU has in place an adequate procedures manual, accounting staff, accounting database
and software, (ii) a specific Project Unit (PU) will have to be created in CDU to handle project resources
and expenditures separately from those of CDU, (iii) CDU's procedures manual and software will have to
be adapted for the purposes of the project. A consultant has been recruited to implement the following
action plan: (i) adapt the procedures manual of CDU for the project, (ii) select/adapt an appropriate
accounting software for the project, (iii) provide training for the UCP/UP accounting staff responsible for
the project implementation.
6.     The Project Unit (UP) set-up by CDU would be a small project unit which will be part of the
"Services Techniques de la CDU" to ensure project implementation. It will include an accountant who will
receive support from a local accounting firm during at least the first year of the project implementation.
The following will be conditions of effectiveness: (i) establishment of a financial management system for
the project acceptable to IDA, including a detailed financial and accounting procedures manual with an
internal financial controls and an appropriate accounting plan, (ii) the appointment of a qualified
accountant for the project.
7. An independent auditor's opinion and report satisfactory to IDA on project financial statements will be
provided within six months of the close of the fiscal year for the annual reports. Special Accounts,
Project Accounts, and SOEs will be included in the audits and specifically addressed in the audit
reports. The auditor's report will also include a statement and a specific report on the adequacy of the
accounting systems and internal controls, the reliability of SOEs as a basis for Credit disbursements,
and compliance with financial covenants. Auditors acceptable to IDA will be recruited by the project
and the audits will be carried out based on TORs acceptable to IDA. Recruitment of auditors will be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
Monitoring and Reporting
8. The World Bank is introducing an initiative to change loan administration in the World Bank
Group-financed projects, the Financial Management Guidelines (FMR). This initiative assists projects
to put in place sound financial management, procurement, and output monitoring systems.
Disbursements, however, will be made on traditional basis of supporting documentation and SOEs..
-42 -



9. The foregoing accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements should provide adequate and
timely information to IDA for project supervision. Financial reports to be produced annually and
denominated in FCFA would include: (a) project financial statements drawn up in accordance with
accounting principles acceptable to IDA (International Accounting Norms are acceptable to IDA); (b)
reports on the Special Accounts; and (c) statements of expenditures (SOE). In addition, project
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs), in line with the FMR, will be produced half yearly in
accordance with the Bank guidelines and submitted to the Bank not later than three months after
the close of the reporting period.
Action Plan
Action                         Date Due              Respondbillty
_. Recruitment of accounting firm                        June 2002                 UCD
2. *   Preparation of Manuals of procedures describing Job                     Consulting Firm/
description of key staff, Administrative, Accounting &                   Government/
Financial accounting systems and procedures, internal                        IDA
controls, and funds flow processes:
*   First draft for IDA comments;              August 2002
*   Final draft incorporating IDA comments      September 2002
*   training of staff
3. Appointement of key staff                             July 2002
*   Accountant specialists                                             UCD
4. Installation of Program Financial Management system    September 2002      Consulting firm
*   Consulting at least 3 software vendors;                            and UCD
*   Receive and evaluate bids and select winners;
*   Seek IDA on selected winners;
*   Installation of software, "Param6trage" and
agreement on financial reporting format/content;
* Training on selected software.
5. Appointment of ExternalAuditors                       September 2002          UCD/IDA
*   Agreement on terms of reference for external audit
*   Recruitment process of Auditors Firm:
*   Finalize bidding documents;
*   Seek IDA no objection;
*   Publish bids;
*   Receive and evaluate bids and select winners;
*   Seek IDA on selected winners.
6. IDA Financial Management Specialist (FMS) carries out the  September 2002       IDA
final Assessment of the Project Financial Management
system
7. Project Effectiveness                                  September 30, 2002     UCD/IDA
-43 -



Final Phase
1  First Project financial statement prepared           January 31, 2003     UCD
2  Transmission of project audit report to IDA           December 31, 2003   UCD
3  Review Project audit reports and follow on implementation  January 2004   IDA
_   of recommendations.
- 44 -



Report on the Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
Cameroon. Douala Infrastructures
Proiect ID: P074490
Ineligible for PMR-Based Disbursements
Financial Management System:
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the review was to
determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by the
Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's guidelines
for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the project's accounting
system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an auditor as well
as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by the borrower in
support of Withdrawal Applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. However, in
my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial management system that can
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project as required
by the Bank/IDA Guidelines for FMR-Based Disbursements.
I have detailed in the attachment an agreed action plan by the Borrower-UCD to remedy the situation.
Signed by: Abdoulaye COULIBALY
Financial Management Specialist - AFMML
-45 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CAMEROON: DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT.
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       .
First Bank mission (identification)             09/24/2001                  07/21/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     02/19/2002                  02/13/2002
Negotiations                                    04/02/2002                  04/24/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/30/2002
Prepared by:
Urban Community of Douala and the World Bank
Preparation assistance:
Financing of preparation studies from the French Agency of Development
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Abdelghani Inal                   Highway Engineer, Urban, TT
Hitosbi Shoji                     Economist
Robert Robelus                    Environment
Kristine Ivarsdotter              Social Development
Abdoulaye Coulibaly               Financial Management
Guy Joseph Malembeti              Procuremnent
Miakikula Bamvi-Koua              Program Assistant
Nicolas Gohel                     Intern
Agnes Albert-Loth                 Disbursement Officer
Edith Ruguru Mwenda               Lawer
Roberto Chavez                    Peer Reviewer
Mohammed Feghoul                  Peer Reviewer
Bertrand de Chazal                Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Faustin Koyasse                   Operations Officer
-46 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CAMEROON: DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT.
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Road Rehabilitation Preliminary Studies (Avant-Projet sommaire au 1/500)
Traffic studies
Contrat d'objectifs Communaute Urbaine de Douala/Gouvemement et rapports de suivi
Environmental Assessment
Economic Analysis
*Including electronic files
-47 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CAMEROON: DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT.
03-Jan-2002
Dierence between expected
and actt4al
Original Amount In USS Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA                 GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Rev'd
P073065       2001 Mudasectoral HIVIAJDS Prcod                    0.00      5000                 0.00      0.00     4542      -3 80      000
P051059       2000 CHAD/CAM PIPE (CAM)                            53.40     0.00                 0.00      0 00     40.73      0 53      000
P048204       2000 ENVIRONMENTOILTA                                00W       577                 000       000       5.32      0.14      0.00
P065927       2000 PubliciPivate Psrtnershp. Growth                000      20.90                0.00     0.00      1656       7.03      000
P045348       1999 AGEXT&RES.SUPPORT                              0.00      1510                 0.00     0.00       9.43      6.35      000
P055684       1998 Higher Education (LIL)                          0.00     4 90                 0.00      0.00      3 39      3.34      323
P054443       1998 SACIII                                          000     16000                 0.00      000      81.02     6282      52.22
P000393       1996 TRANSPORT SECTOR                                000      60.70                0.00      0.00     1661      20.31      281
P000311       1995 BIODIVERSITYCONSERV                            0.00      000                  600       0.00      0.61      1.13      0.00
Total:      5340      337.37              600        000      219.07     9785      5826
- 48 -



CAMEROON
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1995               AEF Comp Avicole              0.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.24    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               AEF Hobec                     0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.13    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Notacam                   0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96            AEF Proleg                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Saicam                    0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00
2000               BICEC                         0.00    0.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               CICAM                         1.72    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.72    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               COTCO                        86.10    0.00    0.00   86.10   11.41    0.00    0.00    11.41
1992/94/97/98      Pecten Cameroon              22.09    0.00    0.00   69.95    6.59    0.00    0.00   20.87
Total Porffolio:       111.10   0.67     0.33  156.05   20.71    0.00     0.33   32.28
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2000               AEF Complexe In                 0.00      0.00      0.17     0.00
2002               AEF FME-GAZ                     0.00      0.31      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00     0.31      0.17     0.00
-49 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CAMEROON: DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT.
POVERTY end1 SOCA AL                                          Saharan      Lp
-  .  Crmuroem   -   Abre.   InCOM:       Development diamond'
Populaon. mi-yervfohtUWj              1-          2-5                               LUfe expectancy
GNI (Alias metIrid. USS banqli          :               0.6       313--s1.0
AVWUUU annual growth. IONIC       -   -
Pdpulatlon 1961                                                                      GN2.7Gr6o1.
Labofrfamce(6 M                                         2.8        2.6-     -2.4:     0N                                Gos
Moat recent eatini   -~~~~~~~~~~~~                     -   -- - ~~~Pef                          primary
Mostrecnt                          U Ia                                         cpit                          enrollment
Poverty 66 ar noAulalin baIb( ow  p. oyer fine)  -        ...
Urtban Dopultlo  (49                                               34dli2  - I- . -  32
Life ezoectancy at blfi(er)-                              t        47        6 
InfgfnI mortaatV 1100i I.o-? v77ftr                          -     92' 
Child rnaftntltrlflo (76 of car  .j0-ider ~)22                                             Access lo improved water source
Acces to an trIWRtMvd WM0erseu,cW(%1f7 6 O'oulAft"o      62        55        70
tifteracy (76 Ofousl4t~)                                24        38        3                    Cameroon
GroesDrlm auny n   -                        -t'-                   78         6-                  LwIcm       ru
Male  .                     -                    88~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  102          Lo-noegu
Female-                          .        ..                     71        6..                              .     -..
KEY ECONONIC RTOSI.d1LOMO"-TE1k TREWDS 8
18119  1900    1909-,    2!1-                       -    
- ,    Ecenomic rnati&
GDP JUSS bUND---                    47        12    -    9.2  .    L9.
Gross doirjestG1ci stnehlG  -21'0                  -    78        167. - -    .4                     Trade
Emort of ooawia sev)qip                  -;   22        02        244   -   30.7--
gross domeetic ssidnaslG                      21       2q.7       14       *
Gross national "aVInaGP    .     .51                   18 1       1         1.
Current contbelepcsjGOP                       451,      18                           Domfestic                    Investment
tntareettavnentalIVIP-.                                                              savings.  ~
TOta debt 961v~elx13Rfte                      14.6     2,         45.2      20.
Praesetvalue 01 iWODP                                             71
Prosseitvalue fdelezot                                           292.6         .-
Indebtedness
taa~~W  199040  190Il     2000    2090-04
(average el?itOsh
GDP.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    4       17        4A        4.2 ~~~~~~ -                -   Cameroon
GDP iur ceorda                     -           1         8         3          .                    Low-Income group
xparm4 of qiads andaserls              .I~3             2          4 9      -2.2  7-.                  --*-. -               9-
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1080     1900       1009      2000     FGrowtht of investment and GDP (I6)
(76 of GOP)                                                                          20
Agriculture                                   31.3     24.8       43.5      43.8
Industry                                      25.6     29.5       20.2      20.3    110
ManufacturIng                                9.6      14.5      10.9      10.9     40
Services                                      43.1     48.0       36.2      35.9                  90    97    9o   s9    0
Private consumption                           68.6     66.6       71.6      69.5
General government consumption                 9.7     12.8       10.0      10.2                    ootI    -OGDP
imports 01 goods end services                 27.4     17.3       24.7      26 8    I
(average annual growth)         1000lss-00  1990-00   1999       2000     Growtht of exports and Imports (I6)
Agriculture                                    2.2      5.6        6.8       6.5 
Industry                                       5.9     .0.8        6.3       7.7     1
Manufacturing                                5.0       1.4       9.4      11.3     I
Services                                      -0.5      0.2       .0.2       2.8       4
Private consumption                            3.5      2.9       -1.2      12.9        00   5    55    gy    as   g
General government consumDtion                 6.8      0.7       10.6       7.3    -10.
Gross domestic investment                     -2.6      0.9        7 0       0.9               _  Ex;xrts   ---mports
imports of goods and services                  3.6      5.1       2.9       15.8
Note 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
IThe diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (in bold) comoared with Its Income-group average, If date are missing, the diamond wilt
be Incompiete.
- 50 -



Cameroon
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1SS0      19S      2000     MIladn %)
Doesi pdo                                                                      so.
Consume prices                              9.5     1.1       2.9      0.8    20
ImplIct GDP delator                        142      1.6      -1.2      3.5     1
Govwnment fnnemu
1% of GDP, Ihduds cuent gransb)                                                       95 95 97         se   as
Cuwent revenue                             18A     14.3      16.7     18.8    :o
Current budget balance                      5.6     -1.8      0.4      4.2           -     GDP ddsator  -   Ci'
Overan surplualdeflct                       OA     -7.8      -3.2      1.4
TRADE
1980    1990      199S     2000      Expo. and Import lmb (US$ mfIL)
Total exdports (fob)                      1,506   1.882     1,682    2,124    2o
Fuel                                      398     823       529      989     2   .
cocoa                                     289     156       157      119
Manufcrwe                                  96     359       399      381     1..9
Total Impors (dn                          1,452   1.A53     1.483    1,538     ,
Food                                       82     190       169      162
Fuel and enenv                            187      16        12       24      5 
Capil goods                               388     452       407      412       o
Expot ipce index (1995100)                  81       s0       88       128          94   95   es  97             00
Import price Index (1995=100)               72       51      100       101               *EPOwn s      l
Tes of tade(1995=100)                      112       99        88      124
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS  mel                                                                      Cuirnt account balance to GDP
Exports of goods and services             1,880   2,251     2,241    2,719     o
Imports of goods and serAces              1,829   1,931     2.267    2,376
Resource balance                            51      320       -26      343
Not axlme                                 -479     *478      -468     -594    -2*. 
Netcurrenttratsfers                         83      -39       117       97
Current account baance                    348      -196      -376     -163
FInandna Items (net)                       508     252       380       395    *41
Changes In net reseves                     -162     -65       -4      -242     -
A1emo:
Reserves IncudWn god aJS$ mls)               ..      ..        4       212
Conversion rate (DEC. tocUS$)             209.2   300.7     588.5    658.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(USS mIlons)                                                                   ComposItion of 2000 dobt (UBS mDll.)
Total debt outsanding and disbursed       2,513   5,158     9,444    9,929
IBRD                                     152     651       276       218                     A:218 9.:769
IDA                                      146     238       749       769           0:2,040             C: 235
Totaldebtservice                           280      522      549       561                                 D 392
IBRD                                      17      91        91        75
IDA                                        2       4         11       12
Composition of not reoUrCe flows                                                 F 647
Offcial grants                             ..
Ofkicl crsedltrs                         221     461        28        33
Private creditors                        279      -12       -51      -52
Foreign direct Investment                  ..
Portfoio equty                            ..       ..        ..       ..                           E:5.628
World Bank program
CommItments                                0       0        138       91     A - IBRD                  E - BtltarW
Dibursements                              47      75        67        56     B-IDA    D -Other muIsAral  F - Rtvete
Prbnipe repaimets                          5      44        71        60     C - iF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                 43      30         4        -5
Interest paymwents                        14      51        32        27
Net ransfbes                              29     -20        -3       -32
Developmnt EconomIcs                                                                                          101r2i01
- 51 -



Additional Annex 11: Environmental Assessment
CAMEROON: DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT.
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC INVESTMENTS
AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
GENERAL SECRETARIAT
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC
AND TECHNICAL COOPERATION
Yaounde, 4 December 2001
No. 02586/MINPAT/SG/DCET/BN/BN1
To:           Mr. Robert CALDERISI, Director
of Operations for Cameroon, World Bank Africa Region
Through:      The Resident Representative of the World Bank
in Cameroon, Yaounde
Subject:      Transmission of the report of the environmental impact study
of the project for rehabilitation of the access routes
to the industrial zones of Douala
Sir,
In accordance with the principal decisions of the latest IDA mission for supervision of the
Transport Sector Project, pre-appraisal of the project for rehabilitation of the access routes to the industrial
zones of Douala and post-appraisal of the railway concession project, which visited Cameroon from 17
November to 1 December 2001, I have the honor to attach herewith the report on the environmental impact
study for the project for rehabilitation of the access routes to the industrial zones of Douala, which has
been approved by the Republic of Cameroon.
Yours faithfully,
Martin OKOUDA
Minister of Public Investments and Regional Development
Copy: - Urban Community of Douala
- Transport Sector Project Unit
- 52 -



-53 -



URBAN COMMUNITY OF DOUALA              REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
TECHNICAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT       PEACE - WORK - FATHERLAND
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDY
OF THE PROJECT FOR THE REHABILITATION OF THE ACCESS ROUTES
TO THE INDUSTRIAL ZONES OF DOUALA
November 2001
-54-



SUMMARY
1.   INTRODUCTION
2.   INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
2.1. JURIDICAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK
2.2. INSTITUTIONAL AND POLITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONTEXT
2.3. LEGAL CONTEXT FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDIES
3.   INITIAL CONDITION AND DIAGNOSIS OF THE ENVIRONMENT
3.1.  PHYSICAL SURROUNDINGS
3.1.1. Condition of the highway
3.1.2. Climate
3.1.3. Rainfall
3.1.4. Hygrometry
3.1.5. Winds
3.1.6. Relief
3.1.7. Soil characteristics
3.1.8. Hydrology
3.2.  NATURAL SURROUNDINGS
3.1.1. Flora
3.1.2. Fauna
4.    THE PROJECT
4.1.  NATURE OF THE WORK
4.2.  DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
4.3.  INTERCHANGES
4.4.  PARKING
4.5.  LIGHTING
4.6.  DRAINAGE
4.7.  MAINTENANCE AND PROPORTIONING
5.   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PROJECT INVESTMENTS
5.1. METHODOLOGY
5.1.1. Identification of impacts
5.1.2. Description of impacts
- 55 -



5.2.  IMPACT ON THE PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
5.2.1. Negative impacts
5.2.2. Positive impacts
5.3.  IMPACT ON THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT
5.3.1. Flora
5.3.2. Fauna
5.4.  IMPACT ON THE SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
5.4.1. Negative impacts
5.4.2. Positive impacts
6.   ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
6.1. GENERAL PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES TO MITIGATE NEGATIVE
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
6.2. ADOPTION OF PALLIATIVE MEASURES AND ACCOMPANYING
MEASURES
- 56-



SUMMARY
Implementation of the project for rehabilitation of the access routes to the industrial zones and port of
Douala has several positive impacts and some negative impacts to be offset by various measures.
Because the negative impacts are mainly observed during the work period and measures to offset and
eliminate them have been recommended, they are minor and, more importantly, temporary.
- The negative impacts can be summarized asfollows:
I .    Deterioration of air quality
2.     Pollution of surface water
3.     Noise pollution
4.     For the soil, risks of erosion, modification of soil surface properties and risks of pollution through
accidental oil spills
5.     Modification of the pattern of surface water runoff after the work
6.     Disruption of urban and intercity traffic
7.     Safety problems for users and residents
8.     Problems of access to various utilities, markets, schools and medical establishments and to
factories located alongside the routes affected by the project
9.     Temporary intenrmptions in services (water, electricity, telephone, ...)
10.    Loud noise of construction machinery.
- In order to offset these inconveniences, various palliative measures will be taken:
I .    Regular hosing of earthwork pathways and zones, particularly near dwellings
2.     Speed limits
3.     Maintenance of below-ground runoffs as close as possible to their original condition during the
work
4.     Protection of erodable surfaces with revegetation (after top soil grading) or with masoned
water-wing or riprap (slope) during the execution of earthwork
5.     No dumping of rubble or debris within 15 meters of a stream
6.     Psychological preparation/inforrnation
7.     Public safety
-57 -



8.     Scheduling of work
9.     Temporary diversions.
On the other hand, the most important impacts are positive and lasting and involve the comfort,
health and well-being of the inhabitants of the city of Douala after the actual completion of the project.
- Thus the major positive impacts of the project are:
1.    Improvement of air quality and public health (decrease in gas emissions from vehicles moving at
higher speeds, considerable decrease in dust).
2.    Improvement of the drainage system
Improvement of the drainage system has a number of consequences:
*   ~Decrease in waterbome diseases
*      Decrease in risks of erosion in areas bordering the highway
*      Improved preservation of the road surface
*      Improved conditions for pedestrian and vehicular traffic
3.     Longer lifetime and lower running costs for vehicles
4.    Improved traffic flow and less stress for drivers
5.    Increased mobility of inhabitants and decrease in commuting time, so that the problems of daily life
can be solved more rapidly and with less fatigue
6.    Improved access to utilities, markets, schools, medical centers and factories located alongside the
routes affected by the project.
7.     Positive effect on the economy of the city of Douala and of the country in general through
improved exchanges and transport of goods and people
8.    Improved appearance of the city, enhancing its image and boosting the people's morale and
self-esteem.
1. INTRODUCTION
The Urban Community of Douala (1.5 million inhabitants) accounts for about 75 to 85 per cent of
Cameroon's industrial activities and almost all of its port activities. The road network serving Douala's
industrial and port zones is therefore a basic economic necessity for the country and also for Chad and the
Central African Republic, which depend on Cameroon for their access to the sea.
In addition, pending construction of a city bypass, certain arteries proposed in the project also run through
the city, linking the highways from YAOUNDE and EDEA in the east to the arteries to LIMBE and
NKONGSAMBA in the west.
- 58 -



Douala extends over about 190 square kilometers in an almost completely flat area of lagoons and former
swamps. Drainage of rainwater and wastewater poses considerable problems because of the silting of the
Wouri River and the lack of cleaning and maintenance of the city's many natural channels and drains.
The city roads, whatever their use, are generally in very poor condition. This is mainly because of the hot
and very humid climate with heavy and frequent rainfall, the chronic lack of maintenance for many years,
the lack or inadequacy of water treatment systems, which are often poorly proportioned, and the increase in
heavy and light vehicle traffic.
This report is taken from the feasibility study which is part of the project for rehabilitation of the access
routes to the industrial zones of Douala. This mission was financed by the Agence Francaise de
Developpement and executed by the Scetauroute/SCET-Cameroun/Ecta BTP group. The contractor is the
Urban Community of Douala.
2. INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT
2..1 Juridical and legalframework
Cameroon's arsenal of legislation on the environment, which was quite limited in the period before
Stockholm (1972), has been gradually expanding with the increasing importance being accorded to
environmental problems.
Thus several legal instruments on the protection of the environment have been signed and ratified at the
international, regional and national levels.
At the national level:
The basic legal instrument on the protection of the environment is Act No. 96/12 of 5 August 1996
promulgating the Framework Law on environmental management. This general instrument is supplemented
by specific laws such as the Act on Forests, Fauna and Fishing (No. 94/01 of 20 January 1994), the Act
governing Water (No. 98/005 of 14 April 1998) and the Act on Establishments Classified as Dangerous,
Unhealthy or Unsuitable (No. 98/015 of 14 July 1998), etc.
2.2 Institutional and political environmental context
Before the creation of the Ministry of the Environment and Forests in 1992, there was a proliferation of
institutions (technical ministries and public, semi-public and other agencies) with primary or subsidiary
responsibility for natural resources management and monitoring of certain activities potentially harmful to
the environment, with no definite structure to coordinate the various actions.
Faced with wide-ranging environmental problems and with this inefficient approach, following the Rio
summit in 1992 Cameroon took a number of measures designed to make environmental protection a more
integral part of government policy and to provide better coordination of activities in this area. With this
aim, the following actions were taken:
- Creation of a Ministry of the Environment and Forests to provide an institutional framework for
environmental planning and management.
- Formulation of a National Environmental Management Plan (NEMP) providing basic strategic
- 59 -



guidance for the protection of the environment and the rational exploitation of natural resources for
sustainable development.
- Incorporation of environmental protection in the Constitution (Fundamental Law).
- The Ministry of Public Works has developed environmental guidelines on highway construction
and maintenance and established a unit with a staff of 11 to deal with environmental issues involving
highways.
2.3. Legal contextfor environmental impact studies
Section 2 of the Act on the Environment is devoted to environmental impact studies.
This section specifies that projects which may have an effect on the environment must first be the subject of
an impact study. In particular, the following issues must be dealt with:
1.    Initial state of the site and of its environment;
2.     Reasons for selecting the site;
3.    Identification and evaluation of impacts on the natural and human environment;
4.     Description of the measures planned to eliminate, reduce and/or offset negative impacts;
5.     Presentation of altematives and reasons for the selection of the project.
In addition, Act No. 94/01 of 20 January 1994 containing regulations goveming forests, fauna and fishing
also requires a prior environmental impact study for all projects with biodiversity implications.
Although the implementing decrees for the Framework Law on the Environment listing projects requiring
prior environmental impact studies have not yet been signed, the transport sector - and particularly road
transport - is clearly one of the sectors in which impacts on the environment are inevitable.
Accordingly, in its transport strategy, the Government has committed itself to preserving the environment
when road works are undertaken. The main objective of this strategy is to guarantee greater efficiency and
sustainable development of the transport sector so that it can contribute to the country's economic growth,
to poverty relief and to environmental protection.
In order to focus specifically on the environmental issues connected with road projects, the Ministry of
Public Works has established an "environmental protection" unit.
3. INITIAL CONDITION AND DIAGNOSIS OF THE ENVIRONMENT
Framework Law No. 96/12 of 5 August 1996 conceming environmental management defines "the
environment" as all the natural or artificial elements and the bio-geochemical balances of which they are a
part, as well as the economic, social and cultural factors which promote the existence, transformation and
development of surroundings, living organisms and human activities.
Thus the environment, which is so to speak the setting for our lives, consists of the physical surroundings
-60 -



(water, air, soil, etc.), the natural surroundings (flora, fauna) and the human surroundings.
3.1. Physical surroundings
3.1.1. Condition of the highway
Some of the roads affected by the project are is relatively good condition (sections I and 2, partially, and 4)
and need isolated repairs. Others are completely dilapidated and will need to be rebuilt (sections 8, 9 and
10). Lastly, sections 3, 5, 6 and 7 mainly have to be rehabilitated.
In its present condition and over its various sections, the highway has a number of features that are harmful
to public health, to the comfort of the human population, to the economy and to the salubriousness of the
city as a whole.
These features are the poor or non-existent drainage system and the serious deterioration of the road
surface.
These features have varying negative effects on the environment.
a. Poor condition of the road svstem
This creates various problems, including:
-      Slow traffic flow (traffic jams)
-      Difficulty of reaching various utilities, shops and companies and resulting waste of time
-      Rapid depreciation of vehicles and high cost of running them
-      Atmospheric pollution by emissions of carbon oxides, nitrous oxides, lead, dust and
volatile organic compounds, with harmfil effects on public health.
- Stress and nervous disorders.
b. Poor or non-existent drainage
Poor rainwater drainage causes a number of serious problems. An incomplete list follows:
- Waterbome diseases (malaria, typhoid, viral hepatitis, hookworm, ...)
- Problems for vehicular traffic during periods of flooding, which are very frequent
- Rapid deterioration of road surfaces
- Problems for pedestrian movement during the rainy season in areas without sidewalks or
shoulders
- Risks of erosion
-61 -



- Unsightly appearance.
3.1.2. Climate
The city of Douala is located on the banks of the Wouri River, 30 kilometers from the sea, on the Gulf of
Guinea in a humid equatorial zone.
Douala has two seasons: a dry season from mid-November to the end of July and a humid season from the
beginning of March to mid-November. June marks the beginning of the main rainy season and July and
August are the two most rainy months.
The concept of "dry season" used here requires the following clarification. Over the past ten years, there
have been only forty-two (42) consecutive days without rain: the dry season could thus be more accurately
called "the less humid season".
3.1.3. Rainfall
In general, the project is located in a humid equatorial zone, characterized by very abundant rainfall of
about 4,000 to 6,000 mm a year, with an average of 200 days of rain a year.
The inter-annual average module (average total rainfall each year in the city) is 4,200 mm.
The following table gives the average monthly rainfall recorded over four consecutive years (1975-1979) at
the Douala meteorological station.
Table 1: Average monthly rainfall (in mm) in Douala between 1975 and 1979
IJan  | Feb   |March  April |May    |June  |July  I AugustSept    |Oct   |Nov   |Dec
58     79    1 208    239    325     520    749    783     649     385    154    48
3.1.4. Hygrometry
The atmospheric humidity in Douala is particularly high. Saturation point is reached during most of the
humid season and even during the least humid months. The minimum relative humidity figure of 80 per
cent is attained in February. The hot climate (average annual temperature of 270 degrees with a
temperature range of only 204, is conducive to evapotranspiration and evaporation.
3.1.5. Winds
Like the rest of Cameroon, Douala is affected by two winds blowing from two anticyclones: the harmattan
from the Azores anticyclone situated in the Sahara and the monsoon from the St. Helena anticyclone
situated in the Atlantic.
The harmattan is a hot dry wind which, because it blows from the Sahara, carries sand particles. It
appears during the dry season. However, its influence is quite small in the project zone.
- 62 -



The monsoon is a hot humid wind, which predominates during the rainy season and may cause heavy
rainfall.
In general, the winds in Douala are weak and south-westerly in direction, corresponding to the direction in
which the monsoon blows.
3.1.6. Relief
The city of Douala is flat with some valleys. It includes zones with hills measuring from 0.2 m to 32 m
CGN.** Measuring system of the Centre G6ographique National, in which zero is equivalent to the mean sea
level, i.e. 1.41 m above the level measured by the tide gauge. Since the highest waters of the Wouri River
reach a level of 2.7 m CGN, it is clear that many parts of the city are liable to flooding.
3.1.7. Soil characteristics
The urban area consists mainly of sandy-clayey and clayey-sandy formations. Specifically, Douala is built
on two types of land:
- Firstly, low land composed of recent slightly consolidated deposits; these soils retain water,
creating swamps.
- Secondly, sedimentary hills and plateaux formed of consolidated deposits, interspersed with
valleys composed of recent poorly consolidated deposits. To a depth of about 100 meters, these plateaux
and hills are formed of relatively clayey sand and quartz gravel alternating with multi-colored sandy clays.
3.1.8. Hydrology
The Wouri River is the final destination of all the waters of Douala. Its characteristics are as follows:
- Maximum flood level: 1,825 m3/s
- Ten-year low water level: 83 m3/s
- Mean annual discharge: 321 m3/s
The city is bordered by two rivers:
- The Dibamba (ten-year low water level: 6.5 m3/s) on the left side, flowing into the Wouri River
downstream of Douala
- The Mungo (ten-year flood level: 1,000 m/s; ten-year low water level: 32 m3/s) on the right
side, also flowing into the Wouri River downstream of Douala.
The tidal waters from the Cameroon estuary flow into these two rivers, as well as into the Wouri River.
In addition, a number of streams flow through various sections of the project zone. They are:
- The Bessoussoukou, the Nguete, the Mbopi, the Tongo Bassa, the Drain Magzi and the Mbanya.
The Bessoussoukou, a tributary of the Besseke, flows through section 1. Section 5 is crossed by the
Mbanya upstream and the Nguete downstream. The Mbopi and the Tongo Bassa flow through section 6,
-63 -



and sections 7 and 10 are crossed by the Mbopi and the Drain Magzi, respectively.
3.2. Wildlife
3.2.1. Flora
The project can be divided into two separate parts;
The first part (zone 1), located entirely in the urban sector (sections 1-7 and section 10), has no particular
plant life.
The second part (zone 2), located outside the city almost completely in the countryside (sections 8 and 9),
has ordinary herbaceous plants, mainly grass (Pennisetum purpureum), some trees showing signs of
anthropization (Elaeis guineensis, Cocos nucifera, Mangifera indica, ...) and some plantations (macabo
and plantain bananas).
3.2.2. Fauna
The project is situated in the middle of an urban zone and does not include any protected area or hunting
zone. However, in zone 2 located almost completely in the countryside, nests of some common birds
(sparrows, swallows, ...) have been identified.
4. THE PROJECT
The project involves rehabilitation of the access roads to the industrial zones of Douala.
The arteries concemed have been divided into the following sections:
- Section 1: Besseke Boulevard - Joss bridge (2,000 ml)
- Section 2: Joss bridge - Leclerc Square (1,200 ml)
- Section 3: Leclerc Boulevard: Leclerc Square - Dakar market roundabout (1,800 ml)
- Section 4: Port boulevard - Dakar roundabout - bridge over the Wouri (800 ml)
- Section 5: Reunification boulevard: Wouri bridge - Japoma boulevard (2,600 ml)
- Section 6: Artery from Ndokoti intersection - Leclerc Square (6,300 ml)
- Section 7: Yabassi camp - Ndokoti (3,850 ml)
- Section 8: PK 10 to PK 14 (4,050 ml)
- Section 9: Ndokoti-Japoma (5,950 ml)
- Section 10: Ndokoti-Truck route from Yaounde to Douala
4.1. Nature of the work
The work will consist of rehabilitation of the main arteries of Douala with some specific improvements. It
will also, at the request of the contractor, involve resurfacing to complete the conversion to 2 x 2 lanes in
the sections from Besseke boulevard to the bridge over the Wouri (sections 1, 2, 3 and 4) and complete
renovation of the road system outside the city (PKIO - PK14 and the Ndokoti-Japoma artery), almost
completely in the countryside.
Thus the project covers two zones in which the work will be somewhat different:
- 64 -



In the first zone, located entirely within the city (sections 1-7 and section 10), the work will consist of
rehabilitation of the existing road system, isolated repairs and, for certain parts of the route, widening of
the existing lanes by covering over the gutters.
In the second zone, locatedoutside the city (PK 10 - PK 14 and the Ndokoti-Japoma artery), the surface
has deteriorated to become like a path over most of the route and has to be completely remade, with
construction of embankrnents, excavations and modification of the longitudinal profile but not of the
cross-section.
4.2. Description of the project
The proposed infrastructure rehabilitation and development are only one part of the project for structural
and functional development of the highways, in order to improve communications and access to the port
and industrial zones of Douala.
4.3. Interchanges
All the interchanges have been studied in detail for each section, on the basis of the traffic survey and with
the agreement of the various parties involved. There are 16 main interchanges, which will be reorganized
and equipped with traffic lights. In addition, the system of traffic signs will be reviewed and updated to
improve user safety.
4.4. Parking
The lack of parking space has obliged drivers to park on the highways, reducing the capacity of the
highway and slowing down traffic. The demand for parking space depends on the type of occupation and
activity in the urban zone and supply depends on the contour and state of the highway. Parking is generally
prohibited along the main arteries, particularly for taxis and mini-buses, which for now are completely
disorganized and have to park illegally and haphazardly in order to meet their customers' needs. It should
be noted that taxi volume represents over 50 per cent of the traffic in Douala on certain arteries.
Parking and stopping haphazardly at any time may be extremely dangerous for highway users: once the
necessary parking spaces have been provided for taxis, it will be the responsibility of the municipality of
Douala to ensure that they are respected.
4.5. Lighting
The lighting of the network in question will also be restored, supplemented and modernized for user safety.
This also represents a major improvement for the inhabitants of Douala, who will feel safer at night.
4.6. Drainage
All drainage systems on the highways affected by the project will be improved or redesigned to preclude
any flooding and to improve the existing situation, which is disastrous. The best drainage solution is to
treat and remove the mud in natural drains, so that these systems can function normally. This solution
could also have a positive impact on public health in Douala, since these treatments would be used in
districts which are unhealthy because mudslides often pollute the water, spreading malaria and other
endemic diseases.
- 65 -



4.7. Maintenance and proportioning
On the basis of geotechnical surveys, recommendations have been made for the maintenance and
proportioning of the highways to be rehabilitated and for the choice of the techniques and materials to be
used.
5.      ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PROJECT INVESTMENTS
5.1. Methodology
The Leopold Matrix was used to identify and categorize the environmental impacts of the project.
5.1.1. Identification of impacts
For each environmental factor (rows of the matrix), the Leopold matrix method identified the effect of the
different actions involved in the project (columns).
Actions
The actions were placed under two different headings: actions during the work and actions after the work
(presence and use of the upgraded highway).
Effects
The effects were divided into three groups: effects on the physical environment (4 factors), on the natural
environment (2 factors) and on humans and their economic and social environment 5 (factors). The 11
factors will be identical for all components of the project in order to achieve a uniform analysis.
Soil
Surface water
Effects on the physical environment
Acoustic environment
Air quality
- 66 -



- Soil
Project impacts on the soil will mainly occur during the second and third phases of the project. These
impacts are:
i.     Risks of erosion
ii.    Modification of soil surface properties
iii.   Risks of pollution from accidental oil spills.
After the work
- Change in surface water runoff pattern
The physical presence of the upgraded highway creates a waterproofed zone which changes the direction
and increases the flow of runoff water into surrounding streams, generally with a low flow rate. Thus the
presence of the highway, particularly during the rainy season, will alter the surface water runoff pattern.
5.2.2. Positive impacts
After the work
- Improvement of air quality and of public health and noise reduction
By decreasing the amount of dust and gaseous pollutants emitted, the highway improvement will
undoubtedly improve air quality and thus decrease the risk of airbome diseases.
5.3. Impact on the natural environment
5.3. 1. Flora
The project does not include any zone with rare flora. In the project's first zone (section 1-7 and section
10), the impact of the project on vegetation is very limited. In the project's second zone, however, where
there will be more extensive earthworks and widening of the platform, the impact on flora will be more
marked, albeit limited to destruction of very common vegetation (grass) and of some trees showing signs of
anthropization (Elais guineensis, Cocos mucifera, Mangifera indica, etc.). Although they are located within
the road right-of-way, possible damage to a very small number of plantations represents the most important
impact on vegetation.
5.3.2. Fauna
Since the project is in an exclusively urban zone, it does not involve any protected or hunting zone.
However, in its second zone (sections 8 and 9), the project may destroy the habitats of some common birds,
which will thus be obliged to seek shelter elsewhere. In general, the project impact on fauna is extremely
limited.
5.4. Impact on the socio-economic environment
As in the case of the physical environment, the impacts on the socio-economic environment will be felt both
- 67 -



during and after the work. The "negative" impacts will be felt during the construction work and the
positive impacts will occur after the work.
5.4.1. Negative impacts
During the work
During this period, a number of negative impacts may be noted. These are:
- Disruption of urban and intercity traffic
The situation will vary depending on whether the work is in the first, second or third phase. During the
first phase, when there will be isolated repairs, without enlargement of right-of-way, traffic disruption will
be minimal. On the other hand, for enlargements of right-of-way, traffic will at times be practically halted.
- Safety problems for users and residents
- Problems of access to various utilities, markets, schools and medical establishments and to
factories located alongside the routes affected by the project
- Temporary interruptions in services (water, electricity, telephone)
- Work-related noise.
These negative impacts will be minor and temporary, because they will occur only during the work and
because measures to eliminate or palliate them can be recommended.
5.4.2. Positive impacts
After the work
The positive impacts of the project are the most important and result from the completion of the project.
These impacts are:
- Improvement of drainage. The major consequence is the solution of all problems resulting from
non-existent or poor-quality drainage.
- Upgrading of road system. The consequence is the solution of all problems connected with the
poor quality of the road system, improved safety, reduction of travel time and transport costs.
- Increased population mobility for the solution of various problems
- Positive effect resulting from easier transport of goods and persons
- Improvement of the city's appearance
Nevertheless, mention must be made of possible traffic dangers resulting from failure to respect speed
limits.
- 68 -



6. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
6.1. Generalprinciples and measures to mitigate negative environmental impacts
This part describes technically feasible measures to eliminate or mitigate negative impacts.
In this connection, a distinction is made between two types of measure:
- Palliative measures: recommended when the project design cannot completely rle out a negative impact
(or its probability).
- Compensatory measures: restore satisfactory environmental conditions in specific negatively impacted
areas.
6.1.1. Physical environment
Palliative measures
In order to mitigate impacts on the physical environment, the following measures are recommended:
- Regular hosing down of earthwork pathways and zones, particularly near dwellings
- Speed limits
- Maintenance of below-ground runoffs as close as possible to their original condition during the
work
- Protection of erodable surfaces with revegetation (after top soil grading) or with masoned
water-wing or riprap (slope) during the execution of earthwork.
- No dumping of rubble or debris within 15 meters of a stream.
Recommendations
- Proportioning of hydraulic outlets from the highway to prevent flooding of adjacent vulnerable
areas (dwellings, crops, etc.)
- Collection and incineration of worksite debris
- Cleaning and proportioning of channels to evacuate waste water to the Wouri River
6.1.2. Socio-economic environment
- Palliative measures
These concern safety, scheduling of work on the various sections of the project and psychological
preparation/information for the public.
- Psychological preparation/information
- 69 -



Local residents must be made aware of the inconveniences relating to the temporary interruption of services
which they will experience during the work.
- Public safety
This has several aspects, and the main goal is accident prevention. It concerns the safety of children and
young schoolchildren, as well as older children and adults. It involves horizontal and vertical road signs.
Vertical signs will announce work sites and temporary diversions, in order to avoid accidents during the
work. Both types of sign will then be used to indicate entrances to educational establishments, markets and
health centers, with speed limit signs.
- Scheduling of work
In order to minimize the effect of the work on traffic (traffic jams), its timing and location will be carefully
scheduled. Detailed preliminary surveys should made it possible to set a time-table for work on the various
routes affected by the project.
- Temporary diversions
In order to limit the effect of the work on the flow of traffic, temporary diversions of a suitable number and
type will be designed and introduced at appropriate locations.
6.2. Adoption of palliative measures and accompanying measures
A program of palliative and accompanying measures has been proposed to protect the environment. The
environmental management program (EMP) brings together in a coherent whole all the measures needed for
the harmonious insertion of the project in its environment
The following table shows this environmental management program during and after the work. It is
subdivided into three main thematic areas:
- Physical environment: soil, water quality, water runoff, air quality, noise, appearance and
landscaping;
- Biological environment: flora and fauna;
- Socio-economic environnent: human activities, archeological heritage, public health, safety,
housing and pollution, culture and society.
Certain specific goals are common to the three thematic areas:
- Creation among residents and workers of an awareness of the importance of environmental
protection;
- Drafting of an Environmental Insurance Plan;
- Formulation of rules concerning respect by enterprise staff of environmental work rules.
Other goals are specific to individual thematic areas.
This plan is accompanied by an estimate of the costs of the environmental measures to be adopted outside
the work but within the project, on the understanding that the costs of the environmental measures to be
- 70 -



included in the work will be taken into account in the contract awarded to the enterprise selected to perform
the work.
- 71 -



ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN (EMP)
FOR THE PROJECT FOR REHABILITATION OF THE ACCESS ROUTES TO THE
INDUSTRIAL ZONES OF DOUALA
OVERALL OBJECTIVE: To reconcile project benefits with environmentalprotection
EMP COMMON TO ALL THEMATIC AREAS
Specific           Results            Activitles     Implementation Actors    Objectively     Means of       Cost       Priority
objectives                                            period                  veriflable      verification   estimates
indicators
Attention to       Local residents and  Information  From the outset Enterprise Respect for good Reports on  Included   Essential
environmental issues project staff realize  campaigns and  of work and on a   environmental    nformation    in
by residents and   the need to protect  meetings for  schedule to be          practices by target campaigns and  enterprise
project staff      the environment    residents and  determnined              groups          meetings       contract
project staff                                           prepared by site
manager
Formulation of an  EIP is drawn up by  D   *ftng of EIP  At the beginning Enterprise - EIP documents Existence of an Included in Essential
environmental      the enterprise and                 of the work                             approved EIP   enterprise
insurance plan (EIP) approved by the site Approval of EIP                     - Letter of                    contract
on observance of   manager                                                    approval of EIP
worksite                                                                      by site manager
environmental rules                                   .
Drafting of        Regulations        Drafting of     At the beginning Enterprise Project personnel Monthly reports Included in Essential
regulations on respect containing rules on  regulations on  of the work       (enterprise/site  on           enterprise
for the environment good environmental respect for the                        manager) respect environmental  contract
by project personnel practices and    environment                             the environment activities
sanctions for                                                              prepared by the
non-compliance                                                             site manager
-72 -



EMP SPECIFIC TO CERTAIN THEMATIC AREAS
PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT
SOIL       Specific     Results      Activities     Implementatlon Actors   Objeetvely Means of    Cost             Priority
objectives                                period                  verlflable  veriflcatlon  estimates
Indicators
Prevenbon of Risks of     Turfing and/or  After earthworks Enterprise Visual  Site        Included in      Essential
soil erosion and erosion,  masoned                                observation manager's   enterprise contract
break-up of   gullying and  water-wing by                                    work
and           andslides are slopes                                           certification
diminished
Prevention of Risks of    Restoration of  ARer completion Enterprise Visual  Site         Included in      Essential
modification of modification  these areas after Df work in said   observation manager's   enterprise
soil surface  of soil surface work        zones                              work         contract
properties    properties in                                                  certification
dumping and
excavation
wnes are
diminished
Reduction of  Risks of    Oil in vehicles  During the work Enterprise No     Log kept by  Included in       ssential
risk of soil  accidental oil and construction                     contaminate site manager enterprise contract
pollution     spills are  machinery is                            d sites
diminished   changed at
suitable locations
WATER     Prevention of Risks of     - Opening of   During the work Enterprise Water    Reports on  Included in       ssential
QUALITY water pollution physical and  dumping and                           quality     periodic water enterprise contract
chemical     xcavation zones                        standards are analyses
pollution of  at least 500 m                        respected
water are   from a stream
diminished   - Avoidance of
oil spills in to
water
WATER       fforts to   Adequate     - Cleaning of  During the work Enterprise Existence of Site    Included in      Essential
RUNOFF combat flood     drainage     existing channels                      unobstructed manager's  enterpnse contract
isks to                                                           parallel and work
neighboring               -Construction of                        divergent  certification
dwellings and             channels where                          ditches
odification of           none exist
hydrographic
sy stem              _       _       _        _       _                                 _
AIR       Decrease in air Atmospheric - Wearing of   From the      Enterprise - Visual  Site         Included in     Essential
QUALITY pollution and   polluton from goggles and   beginning of            observation manager's   enterprise contract
reduction of  dust and    masks           work                    - Testing for follow-up
eye and lung  exhaust from  - Regular hosing                      lung        reports
diseases dunng vehicles and  of the highway                       diseases
work          machineiy is during work
diminished, a - Regular
are risks of  checking of
succumbing to exhaust from
lung and eye vehicles and
diseases    construction
m_achineryv
NOISE     Decrease in   Risks of    - Limit on      During the work Enterprise ISurvey of  Site      Included in     Essential
- 73 -



work-related  sound       daytime working                         residents  manager's    enterprise contract
noise         pollution are hours                                             ollow-up
diminished  - Regular                                           reports
checking that
machine engines
are in good
__________   ________    working order
APPEAR- Decrease m      - Piles of   Regular garbage At regular    UCD      Visual       ollow-up   5,000 CFA francs/ Essential
ANCE      pollution by  garbage in  removal by the  intervals               observation    rt by site ton
solid waste   city streets  Urban                                              anager
decrease    Community of                                         uring the
- Rainwater  Douala (UCD)                                       wrk and by
evacuation  and supervised
drains are no garbage disposal                                  fter the work
onger
___________ blocked
LAND-    hIproved       Visual impact Upgrading of  Towards the end Prvate  Visual      Site         15,000 CFA      Necessary
SCAPE      appearance of of the      ublic parks    of work        provider observation  manager's  francs/
the landscape  andscape is                                                   acknowledge m2 for one simple
enhanced                                                        ment of work upgrade (lawn +
flowers) 50,000
CFA fiancs/
m2 for an elaborate
upgrade (lawn,
flowers, paths,
public benches)
ODORS     Decrease in   Road users  Construction of  Towards the end Private  Visual    Site        1 I million CFA  Essential
bad smells    and residents  ublic toilets  of the work  provider observation manager's   francs for an
are no longer                                                   acknowledge  verage 40 m2
assaulted by                                                    ment of work  oilet with 2
unpleasant                                                                  showers, 3 WC for
odors                                                                       men, 3 WC for
women, a septic
tank and a cashier
area
- 74 -



BIOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENT
Spedfic        Result       Activitles        Implementation Actors      Objectively Means    Estimated cost Priority
objectives                                    period                     verifiable  of
Indicators verificatbo
n
FLORA     Reduction of  Fewer losses Owners are asked to Before the start of UCD and  Visual  Site            0       Advisable
impact on food                 ove young      work            owners     observation manager's
crops on the                plantain banana                                         report
road                        shoots and
right-of-way                taslant them to
open land
AUNA MPAC ON
VAUNA IS
RY
SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Specific        Result         Activities         Implementa Actors     Objectively  Means         Estimated Priority
objectives                                        don                   veriflable   of verification costs
p eriod               indicators
LOCAL         Reduction of    Local         Construction of     Towards    Private    Visual       Site          100,000   Necessary
ACTIVITIES disturbance        inhabitants   markets at Ndokoti, the end of  providers  observation  manager's   CFA
(COMMERC     houman           engage        Japoma, PK 10, PK   work                              work          francs/m2
E             activities      in their small  14                                                  certification
ANDSMALL                      revenue-      and allocation of                                     report
TRADES)                       producing     space in them
activities    for small trades (tire,
bicycle and
m otorcycle repairs)
Improved safety  Decrease in  - Sound signals by the During the  Enterprise Visual  Included m               Essential
of highway users traffic accidents railroad crossing  work              observation  enterprise
and residents                  - Provisional vertical                                contract
signs by sections
under construction
SAF'ETY__                       _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _
- Construction of an  Towards the Private  Visual     Site manager's 95,000    Necessary
enclosure by the   end of work provider   observation  acknowledgem CFA
Ndog-Hem 11 Health                                    ent of work   francs/mI
Center (Section 8)
- Insertion of speed  During the  Enterprise Visual    Site manager's Included in Essential
bumps by schools and work                 observation  work         enterprise
colleges                        _    _     _   _    _     fication  contract
- Construction of  During the  Enterprise Visual      Site manager's Included in Essential
access for residents  work                observation  work         enterprise
certification  contract
Reduced risks of Project       - Awareness        From the    Private   Surveys of   Site manager's 30 million Essential
STD/AIDS        personnel and  campaigns          begining of rovider    ersonnel and follow-up    CFA francs
PUBLIC        propagation     residents are  - Creation of a    work       residents              report
- 75-



HEALTH                    made aware of network for sales of               Contraceptive
the dangers of contraceptives                    ales
____________              STD/AIDS                                                               _
HOUSING     No population
relocations are
envisaged
CULTURE     No potential
AND         impact, since
SOCIETY     Douala is already
cosmopolitan
city where several
cultural groups
oexist and where
anpower will be
recruited locally
ACHEOLO- Nopotential._
GICAL       impact identified
HERITAGE                                                                                               _
To sum up, we may conclude that:
-      The project for rehabilitation of the access routes to the industrial zones of Douala will
have no significant environmental impact that would prevent its implementation.
-      For the impacts identified, the project will comprise, firstly, palliative measures to be
integrated in the work and, secondly, essential accompanying measures outside the work
but within the project
In implementing this environmental management plan, the relevant services of the Urban Community of
Douala will use the expertise and experience acquired in this area by the Highways Environmental
Management Unit of the Ministry of Public Works, within the framework of the transport sector plan.
- 76 -



Additional Annex 12: Govemment Policy Letter
CAMEROON: DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT.
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC INVESTMENTS
AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
GENERAL SECRETARIAT
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC
AND TECHNICAL COOPERATION
No. 107/MINPAT/SG/DCET/BN/BNI
Yaoundi, Feb. 1, 2002
Office of the Minister
Mr. Robert Calderisi,
Director of Operations for Cameroon,
World Bank Africa Region
Per
World Bank Resident Representative
in Cameroon,
Yaounde
Subiect: Transmission of Letter of
SubSector Policy on Rehabilitation
and Maintenance of the Road Systems
of Douala
Dear Mr. Calderisi:
One of the main recommendations of the IDA Preappraisal Mission for the Project to
Rehabilitate the Road Infrastructure in the City of Douala (which visited Cameroon in November
2001), was that a Letter of Subsector Policy from the Government concerning Rehabilitation and
Maintenance of Douala's Road Systems should be prepared and forwarded to IDA.
In this connection, I have the honor to enclose herewith the said letter with a view to
- 77 -



continuation of the exanmnation of the dossier by the World Bank staff.
Yours sincerely,
The Minister of Public Investments
and Regional Development
(sgd.) [illegible]
(stamp) [illegible]
- 78 -



LETTER OF SUBSECTOR POLICY ON REHABILITATION AND
MAINTENANCE OF THE ROAD SYSTEMS OF DOUALA
I.    GENERAL CONTEXT
The city of Douala is built for the greater part on the alluvial basin of the Wouri River,
which is the natural outlet for its five main watersheds. The rainfall, which amounts to some 400
mm per year, helps to keep the water table high, which exposes the roads to significant
deterioration.
As regards demographics, the population, which is growing at a rate of 5% per year, is
estimated at 2 million persons occupying an urbanized area of about 20,000 hectares.
The city of Douala is Cameroon's chief hub of economic development, because of the
concentration of economic activities in it:
95% of the country's total maritime traffic;
60% of the national industrial potential
70% of the national formal economic activity.
Douala also has the country's main international airport and its most important railroad
station.
Besides its national significance in Cameroon, the City of Douala also plays a decisive role
for the economic development of the landlocked countries of the Central African subregion,
especially for their foreign trade. The fact is that the bulk of all goods shipped out from or
intended for the Central African Republic and Chad, and to a lesser extent Gabon, Equatorial
Guinea and the Republic of Congo, passes through its port, which handles a total of 6 million tons
per year. This transit traffic can be expected to increase appreciably upon the completion of
construction  of   the  Bertoua-Garoua-Boulai,  Ngaoundere-Touboro-Moundou    and
Ebolowa-Ambam-Gabon and Equatorial Guinea Border subregional integration highways.
In this connection, with a view to improving the quality of its services, expanding its area
of influence and, as a result, further increasing its contribution to the competitiveness of the
national economy as a whole and of that of the CEMAC area subregion, the Douala Port
Authority has just canried out some large-scale investments in equipment and infrastructure, while
other no less important ones are programmed. However, the particularly advanced state of
deterioration of the urban roads, and especially those linking the Port of Douala with the city's
different areas of economic activity, means that the positive effects expected from the investments
already made or planned could be cancelled out.
At the present time the Port of Douala appears to be practically cut off, due to the
- 79 -



dilapidated state of the surrounding access roads which carry two thirds of the total port traffic,
while the remaining third is shipped out by rail. It has been determined that as a result of this
situation the average number of tumarounds between the Port of Douala and the main areas of
economic activity is now two, compared with five before the deterioration of the urban road
network.
Hence the necessity, firstly, of embarking on rehabilitation of the city's road system,
starting with the roads serving the port and the industrial areas of the city; this system comprises a
total length of 1,700 km, 400 km of which is paved, including 150 km that forms the core system.
Then secondly, a sustainable maintenance strategy needs to be devised and implemented.
II.   PREVIOUS APPROACH TO MAINTENANCE
The maintenance of Douala's streets and roads has essentially been handled by the
municipality, with the assistance of govenmment resources in recent years. Their present state of
disrepair demonstrates the structural limits of the previous maintenance strategies. The current
situation is the result, on the one hand, of the confusion over responsibilities and the lack of an
institutionally-based maintenance policy, and, on the other hand, the absence of a permanent
financing mechanism.
To ensure the sustainability of the planned investments, it appears essential to formulate
and implement an appropriate strategy for Douala's road systems.
HI. THE ROAD MAINTENANCE NEEDS
Despite their present limitations, the main thoroughfares of the city's core road system
carry a daily traffic ranging between 10,000 and 30,000 vehicles each per day. In light of this
heavy load, appropriate solutions for restoring Douala's road systems can only be considered in
terms of "rehabilitation."
On the basis of the estimates prepared, the financing needed for maintenance of the 150
km of the core system once it has been rehabilitated is put at CFAF 6 billion.
IV. URBAN ROAD SYSTEM REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE
STRATEGY
The proposed maintenance strategy for Douala's roads clarifies: the institutional
framework, the work-programming mechanism, the sources and mechanism of financing, the
contract-award procedures and the method of execution of the works.
4.1   Objectives
In alignment with the primary objective, which is to ensure the sustainability of the
investments made in order to guarantee better availability of urban road infrastructure, the
maintenance strategy formulated aims essentially to:
- 80 -



-     improve transportation conditions in the City of Douala;
-     improve the accessibility and competitiveness of the Port of Douala;
-     consolidate the port's role in national economic growth and that of the subregion;
-     reduce production costs for industrialists;
-     contribute effectively to the reduction of poverty and protection of the quality of the
environment
4.2   Institutional framework
The public road domain is made up of a State public domain and a local-authority public
domain. The State public domain, consisting of the national and provincial highways and the
departmental roads, together with the structures and other adjoining infrastructure, is placed
under the shared responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works (roads) and of the Ministry of
Urban Affairs [Ministere de la Ville]. The local-authority public domain, for its part, comes
under the Urban Community of Douala.
4.2.1 Implementing agency
The implementing agency function vested in the Ministry of Urban Affairs will be
delegated to the Urban Community of Douala.
The conduct of operations will be handled by the technical services of the Urban
Community of Douala.
The capacities of the Urban Community of Douala (UCD) and its organization will
be strengthened to enable it to perform its implementing agency and conduct of operations duties
efficiently. To this end, a rational management system for the road network will be set up, for
which purpose specialized units will be formed in the technical services of the UCD and grouped
together in a department specifically responsible for dealing with road and drainage problems and
covering, inter alia, the systematic and periodic gathering of data on the system as a whole, and
the analysis and processing of these data; the permanent inspection of the system; and the
planning, programming and implementation of the works. A staff consisting of among others
three highway and urban engineering specialists will be assigned to these units.
With the support of the competent central services and to help facilitate this change, the
UCD undertakes to provide sessions of appropriate training on a regular basis for all persons
involved in the management cycle of urban road maintenance, drawing inspiration from and
utilizing the benefits of the relevant reforms implemented in the Ministry of Public Works in
particular in recent years.
4.2.2 Monitoring and evaluation
A Monitoring Committee for the entire annual program of maintenance works, attached to
the Ministry of Urban Affairs and responsible for examining, issuing opinions and evaluating the
- 81 -



annual program of works submitted by the UCD, will be set up. This committee will be made up
of representatives of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, of the Infrastructure and
Intercommunal Intervention Fund, of the Ministry of Public Investments and Regional
Development, of the Ministry of Public Works, of the Ministry of Transport, of the UCD and of
the private sector, in particular representatives of the carriers.
4.2.3 Financial resources and sustainability of the investments
The permanent financing of the maintenance of the rehabilitated infrastructure will be
assured by contributions from the State and its agencies (FEICOM, Road Fund) and from the
resources of the Urban Community of Douala.
The present level of the resources of these different sources of financing is insufficient to
cover the needs for sustainable maintenance. The State accordingly undertakes to increase them
by means of:
-     an increase in the funding allocated to the UCD by FEICOM, derived from increases in
local taxes;
-     diversification of the sources of financing of the Road Fund and increasing of the share
allocated to urban roads;
-     an improvement in revenue collection by the UCD, and increasing of the share of
local-authority funds allocated to the Road Maintenance Account established by the UCD.
The amount of the contribution referred to above will be fixed annually, on the basis of a
distribution key.
The State undertakes to expand the list of obligatory local-authority expenditures to
include in particular those relating to strengthening and maintenance of road and drainage
infrastructure.
On the basis of the road maintenance needs estimated for the next five years, the State,
through FEICOM, the Road Fund and the UCD, undertakes to pay into the Road Maintenance
Account each year (base cost: year 2002): CFAF 655 million in 2001-2002; CFAF 1,105 million
in 2002-2003; CFAF 2,545 million in 2003-2004; CFAF 3,810 million in 2004-2005; CFAF 5,205
million in 2005-2006; and CFAF 5,955 million in 2006-2007. The total amount of the funds
allocated will be held in the UCD Road Maintenance Account, opened in a first-rank banking
establishment pursuant to the conditionalities of a previous international loan agreement, and
financed to date by the UCD's own funds plus the balance of the UCD's claims on the State
deriving from a part of the proceeds from increased taxes not transferred to the UCD by the State
in previous years.
The State also undertakes to consolidate its debt to the UCD each year and that the
balance of the claims resulting would be used for the most part for financing the Road
Maintenance Fund.
- 82 -



In the performance of its expanded role, the funds domiciled in the Road Maintenance
Account will be devoted exclusively to the maintenance of the road and drainage systems of
Douala.
The account will be audited semiannually by a specialized audit firm selected by means of
international bidding.
In addition, appropriate mechanisms that will enable recovery of the cost of the services
and infrastructure together with participation by the residents of the city in their financing will be
prepared and put into effect.
4.2.4 Awarding of contracts and execution of maintenance works
The works will be executed under contract.
The contracts will be awarded systematically after open bidding competitions. The UCD
will however, be able to deploy light repair teams to take care of urgent and specific needs.
The Public Contracts Unit and the financial services of the UCD will be strengthened by
the addition of both, qualified human resources (a financial analyst, an administrative officer, an
accountant) and equipment, particularly information technology, to enable them to perform their
functions efficiently.
The programming of the maintenance works will be based on their economic return, using
the most effective information-technology tools adapted to the local urban environment so as to
cause the least inconvenience to traffic and to residents and businesses bordering the works.
The Urban Community of Douala undertakes to apply a transparent and efficient policy of
promoting small and medium enterprises and industries in the road maintenance field in order to
foster the development over time of a body of industries that will create both employment and
value added.
The requirement to maximize utilization of highly labor-intensive maintenance techniques
will be emphasized in the bidding documents sent out to potential contractors.
- 83 -






MAP SECTION



MALI  .i          .     200          I12°                  14                  160
NIGER               0     h.  d pe dtd
-  ..            .     WodUkni tboundoneCHAD   C '   .
.0;  ,- _+   _, Z  _   CHAD   >SUDAN  on o__ ob o
oENINS. a       ! .              orpoo ony rn ore o,,crf          ;
NIGERIA                                                       K 0.. Kuer,
'~ i   )   g<ro   2  rf;  '\   t''   s 12'  0  40  0  120  160KIbeleles,  I 2-
Ii  4'   o'~~~~~~~~~~~~~     I   I~~~~~  I  I                              2
,0  '  *v  ).iCENTRAL AFRICAN REP  0  20  40  60  E 0MIO,        CHA  D
M                                        ).-EROON                        '
DOUALA INFRASTRUCTE                                J EXTREME
~~~i~/ lON  CoOS 
1  7'-                                    If Mo,  NORD
*   UB CONGO  OF  0A                      /  M      B
C NTON  C    CONGO                                 * Morouo
4;  ,,~~~~  X..*~~~~! ~20'                                     Y.0u
R0 A                               - \  -    - oG d
CAMEROON                                  ,   *Moun.*    .          10_
DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE                              0MOOKb4
PROJECT                     00
O URBAN COMMUNITY OP DOUALA
0  SELECTED TOWNS
* DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
®D  PROVINCE CAPITALS
* NATIONAL CAPITAL                   Pl
So               PAVED ROADS
4---RAILROADS
-  - -  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  Tign n6e    oondere  \     /
NIGERIA          __ '                      ADA   QUAB/
N         NIamb G E R  A ,   ',Bny   t
*,   J' QUE T                                                             J ~o ...OUuk
466 ' fX - 5} i t GXpj \
NgutiES 5                               -   o   y    o            CENTR`AL
[~~~~                =                     I              CONGO         AN 
- ' r-B. ^+, -EXLt               _               'tt - -9 r-t.] .] rldRl.l_u0 6.  . - _
51 ~ ~~~ ~~~~ ,.,  FO   R -           ,1j,; I  If)
P*iE  %O@ IL .:       ,                '4.,.
itvs 7 ~~~~~~~~G A B O N f' -. 
~~~~~~j~~t,                                       C O N G O 0






IMAGING
Report No.:         24356   CM
Type:      PAD



