Report No. 23581
Report No: I074490 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/30/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CAMEROON        Project ID: P074490
Project: DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURES PROJECT.         Task Team Leader: Abdelghani Inal
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 18, 2002       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 14, 2002      IDA Amount ($m): 38.31
Managing Unit: AFTTR     Sector: TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Project aims to support the Government of Cameroon and the Urban
Community of Douala (UCD) to implement an urgent program of rehabilitation
of the primary roads of Douala connecting the port and the industrial
areas among them and with their hinterlands; and strengthen the urban road
management and maintenance framework.
Since the economic and transport reforms launched in 1996 after the
1985-1995 recession, the city of Douala is recovering its position as the
nation capitale for industrial activities and services, and the regional
capitale for maritime traffic and trade. After the reforms of maritime
transport and port operations, and privatization of all land transports,
the city of Douala needs to have an efficient transport system and an
excellent interface port/city and port/hinterland to complete the
improvement of the whole chain of transport. To this end, the UCD
prepared in 2000 a comprehensive traffic scheme and an urgent program of
rehabilitation of the main roads to address the most critical urban
transport issues, and a City contract to improve the management of the
city and the performances of the UCD.
The project aims to support these activities.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project would consist of three components:
(a) Execution of an urgent urban road rehabilitation program in Douala.
The program consists of about 38 km of existing primary roads connecting
the port and the industrial areas among them, to the other districts of
the city and to the intercity road network; the pavement will be rebuilt,
sidewalks and drainage system rehabilitated and improved; parking places
for buses and taxis, traffic lights, road signs, and safety will be
improved.
(b) Consultant services for program implementation, audits and monitoring,
and for capacity building for urban road management and maintenance, and
preparation of an urban development program for Douala and other cities,
included review of the waste management system in Douala.
(c) Operating costs of the project unit and the environmental unit of the
Ministry of Public Works for project implementation and monitoring.
Components:



(a) Rehabilitation program
(b) Consultant services
(c) Operating costs
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
DOUALA - Republic of Cameroon.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The environmental classification is justified, because this
project involves only rehabilitation of urban roads and will use the
existing right of way. The latest study does not mention that land take
or compensation to potentially affected people will be an issue.
The latest designs of the road and drainage rehabilitations convincingly
show that no people live or carry out businesses along these roads. There
are no structures that will be affected along these roads (total 38
kilometers). In case there are informal businesses (cigarette sellers,
fruit stands, etc), these business people will be able to take their stand
to another place nearby while the constructions are going on.
Should a case present itself where any people would be affected negatively
(for example due to unexpected changes in road design or because of
material deposits or the like), the project documentation, including the
contractor's contracts, will contain the provision for the Operational
Directive (OD) 4.30 to be applicable.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project is a straightforward infrastructure project of mainly repaving
and rehabilitating the existing urban roads. For the rehabilitation of
the roads, earth from quarries (existing or new) might be needed.
Environmental standard operating procedures developed by the Environment
-2 -



Unit of the Ministry of Public Works, Roads Department, will be applied to
the project, including the presence of an environmental specialist for
work supervision. The consultant and contractor have to include an
environmental management plan (EMP) in the final project design and in the
program of works. This EMP should be approved by the Environmental Unit
of the Roads Department. The issue of the discharge of waste oil from car
engines is likely one of the major polluters in Douala.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
There are no feasible alternatives for existing urban road rehabilitation
programs. Standard construction techniques will be used, as applied
worldwide by road contractors.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The quarries that would be used would be managed according to the rules
established by the Direction d'Environnement on the subject.    The
Environment Unit of the Ministry of Public Works of the Roads Department
will be fully involved in monitoring the environmental/social aspects of
the rehabilitation works.   A pilot approach will be tested to minimize the
pollution caused by the discharge of waste oil from car engines through an
analysis of feasible collection and recycling mechanisms and associated
costs to carry out such an operation.
The project will improve road safety by several means, i.e. traffic
lights, special areas for bus stops and taxi parking, improvement of side
walks. The Unit in charge of the road maintenance will handle the
drainage network. In addition, the project will finance a study to review
the solid and liquid waste management system for the whole city.
Implementation of a solid and liquid waste management plan will be
included in the upcoming urban development program.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders are people living and having their businesses along the
roads to be rehabilitated and other city roads users. Other key
stakeholders include: transport unions, representatives of the industry
sector, the Port of Douala and traders. The roads to be rehabilitated are
major urban arteries. The Environmental Analysis for the project will be
made available for comments to the people along the roads to be
rehabilitated and other stakeholders. The availability of the EA will be
announced in the newspapers.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
-3 -



in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank              1/3/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure          1/7/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop           1/11/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Abdelghani Inal 10/10/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Robert A. Robelus/Person/World Bank      10/10/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Kristine M. Ivarsdotter/Person/World Bank
10/10/01
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Charlotte S. Bingham     10/10/01
Sector Manager/Director:         Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard      10/10/01
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
Lucy Njuguna
-4-



M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\February 2, 2002\I074490.txt
January 30, 2002 4:13 PM
- 5 -



