Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3694 CM
Project Agreement
(Douala Infrastructure Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
COMMUNAUTÉ URBAINE de DOUALA
Dated July 26, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3694 CM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and COMMUNAUTÉ URBAINE de DOUALA (CUD).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Page  2
Republic of Cameroon (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-five million two 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 45,200,000), on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that CUD agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CUD, 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in Article II of the Development Credit Agreement will 
be made available to CUD on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS CUD, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CUD declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and CUD shall otherwise agree, CUD shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. CUD shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
Page  3
respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. CUD shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CUD shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CUD shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes 
of the Credit.
(b) 
CUD shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit, or the performance by CUD of its obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary 
Agreement and the Project Implementation Manual.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CUD
Section 3.01. CUD shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance 
with sound administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate 
numbers.
Section 3.02. CUD shall at all times operate and maintain its machinery, equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound financial, engineering and environmental 
practices.
Section 3.03. CUD shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as 
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  CUD shall establish and maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
CUD shall:
Page  4
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (administrative 
accounts, treasury accounts and statements of fixed assets) for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and 
report of such audit, by said auditors,  of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02.
 
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, CUD shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of such funds;  
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project  implementation; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first  FMR  shall  be  furnished to  the  Association  not  later  than 45 days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from 
the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
Page  5
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of CUD 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Association shall promptly notify CUD thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement 
shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made 
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. 
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall 
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.    The 
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For CUD:
PO Box 43
Douala
Republic of Cameroon
Facsimile:
(237) 342 6950
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
Page  6
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CUD, may be taken or executed by 
the Government Delegate or such other person or persons as the Government Delegate shall 
designate in writing, and CUD shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Theodore O. Ahlers
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
COMMUNAUTÉ URBAINE DE DOUALA
By /s/ Raymond Epote
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Page  7
Goods  and  works  shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines).
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply 
to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic 
contractors.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (a) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or more; and (b) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  8
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines).
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for highly specialized engineering or institutional aspects which are estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
Page  9
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Part A
:
General
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CUD shall: (a) implement the Project in 
accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and the Environmental Management Plan; 
and (b) not amend, waive, permit to be amended or waived, the Project Implementation Manual 
and the Environmental Management Plan or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the 
opinion of the Association, would materially affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
CUD shall carry out the Project under the overall guidance of the PCC. 
3.
CUD shall maintain a Project Unit as part of its technical services.  The Project Unit, 
headed by a Project Unit Manager, shall be responsible for day-to-day activities under the 
Project.
Part B
:
Monitoring and Reporting
4.
CUD shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about January 31 of each year, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
Page  10
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by February 28 of each year, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
5.
Midterm Review
(a)
CUD shall not later than June 30, 2005, participate jointly with the Borrower in 
the preparation of a midterm review, which shall cover among other things:
(i)
the performance by CUD in carrying out the Project;
(ii)
progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; and
(iii)
overall Project performance as measured against the performance 
indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of paragraph (4) of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
(b)
CUD shall carry out  jointly with the Borrower  and the Association, not later 
than September 30, 2005, the midterm review of the progress made in carrying out the Project.
(c)
CUD shall thereafter with the assistance of the Borrower, act promptly and 
diligently in order to take, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming 
identified in the implementation of the Project, or to implement, such measures as may have been 
agreed between CUD, the Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project. 
SCHEDULE 3
Performance Indicators 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the indicators for monitoring and 
evaluating the carrying out of the Project, referred to in Section 4 (a) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement are the following:
1.
Main roads rehabilitated:  kilometers rehabilitated at the end of each calendar year   
(cumulative):   2004:  6 km;  2005:   12 km;  2006:   18 km; 2007:  25 km; 2008:  32 km.
2.
Travel time on the main roads:  average car speed before and after rehabilitation on 
significant sections of roads (surveys).
3.
Vehicle operating costs:  survey and calculation, before and after rehabilitation.
4.
Daily traffic before and after rehabilitation.
5.
Operation of financing mechanism for the replenishment of the Road Maintenance  
Page  11
Account and expenditure on road maintenance in a fiscal year: 2002:  CFAF 1,105 million; 2003: 
CFAF 2,545 million; 2004: CFAF 3,810 million; 2005: CFAF 5,205 million; 2006: CFAF 5,955 
million; and each of the following fiscal years: CFAF 6,000 million.
