                                 Document of
                              The World Bank


                                                      Report No: ICR00001413



            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA 36940 AND IDA 3694A)

                                   ON A

                                  CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 45.20 MILLION
                        (US$56.35 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

                                  FOR THE

                     DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT

                                June 28, 2010



Transport Unit
Country Department AFCC1
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
             (Exchange Rate Effective as of December 31, 2009)

                           Currency Unit = FCFA
                            SDR1.00 = US$1.57
                           US$1.00 = 456 FCFA

                             FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 to December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AFD      Agence Française de Développement (French Development Agency)
AIDS     Acquired Immune-deficiency Syndrome
C2D      Contrat de Désendettement et de développement (Framework for use of French
         debt Relief by Cameroon)
CAR      Central African Republic
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy,
CFAF     Franc CFA (BEAC currency)
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DIP      Douala Infrastructure Project
EA       Environmental Assessment
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
EU       European Union
FY       Fiscal Year
GOC      Government of Cameroon
HDM      Highway Development Maintenance (Model 4)
HIPC     Highly Indebted Poor Countries
HIV      Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Agency
IMF      International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP   Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ISDS     Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MINDUH   Ministère du Développement Urbain et de l'Habitat (Ministry of Housing and
         Urban Development)
MINT     Ministry of Transport
MINTP    Ministère des Travaux Publics (Ministry of Public Works)
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NPV      Net Present Value
OP       Operational Policy
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCC       Project Coordination Committee
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PDUE      Projet de Développement des secteurs Urbain et de l'Eau (Urban and Water
          Development Support Project)
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
SAC III   Third Structural Adjustment Credit
TTL       Task Team Leader
UCD       Urban Community of Douala
VOC       Vehicle Operating Cost




            Vice President:            Obiageli K. Ezekisili
            Country Director:          Mary A. Barton-Dock
            Sector Manager:            C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
            Project Team Leader:       Jean-Francois Marteau
            ICR Primary Author:        Peter Ngwa Taniform
                                                      CAMEROON
                                               Douala Infrastructure Project


                                                            CONTENTS
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .............................................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................................... 14
4. Assessment of risks to development outcomes ........................................................................ 20
5. Assessment of bank and borrower performance ...................................................................... 21
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................................... 24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......................... 26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................................... 27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................................. 29
Annex 3. Economic Analysis........................................................................................................ 31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............................. 36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................................... 37
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................................... 38
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................................... 39
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................................... 44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................................... 45
   MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                            DOUALA
Country:                Cameroon                  Project Name:             INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                            PROJECT
Project ID:             P074490                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-36940,IDA-3694A
ICR Date:               06/30/2010                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            CAMEROON
Original Total
                        XDR 45.2M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 43.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 43.5M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 COMMUNAUTE URBAINE DE DOUALA
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Government Republic of Cameroon
 CITIES ALLIANCE
 C2D

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process               Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/18/2001      Effectiveness:              03/21/2003        03/21/2003
Appraisal:            02/13/2002      Restructuring(s):                             03/22/2006
Approval:             07/18/2002      Mid-term Review:            09/30/2005        01/26/2006
                                      Closing:                    12/31/2008        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing                Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:            Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower            Moderately


                                                  i
Performance:                                       Performance:              Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of              Moderately
                           No
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):      Unsatisfactory
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      1                      6
Roads and highways                                                    83                    80
Sub-national government administration                                16                    14


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                40                    40
Other urban development                                               40                    40
Trade facilitation and market access                                  20                    20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Mary A. Barton-Dock                  Robert Calderisi
Sector Manager:            C. Sanjivi Rajasingham               Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Project Team Leader:       Jean-Francois Marteau                Abdelghani Inal
ICR Team Leader:           Peter Ngwa Taniform
ICR Primary Author:        Peter Ngwa Taniform


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project aims to support the Government of Cameroon and the Urban Community of
Douala (UCD) to improve the efficiency of Douala's transport system connecting the sub-
regional port of Douala and its hinterlands (local, national, and sub-regional). This
objective will be achieved through the implementation of an urgent program of


                                                ii
rehabilitation of the degraded primary roads connecting the port and the industrial areas;
and strengthening the capacity for urban road management and maintenance.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target        Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target        Completion or
                                              documents)            Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     23 km of primary roads rehabilitated
Value
quantitative or   0 km                       23 km                              27 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/21/2003                12/21/2008                        12/31/2009
Comments          Percentage of achievement: 117%
(incl. %          A third batch of road works was decided to be funded in 2006, thanks to the
achievement)      economies made from the two initial batches.
                  Reduction percentage of travel times on main roads affected by the rehabilitation
Indicator 2 :
                  works
Value
                  0%                         42%                                87%
quantitative or
                                             (30km/h)                           (40km/h)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2002                12/31/2008                          12/01/2009
Comments          Percentage of achievement:133%
(incl. %          The speed did not increase equally on the roads rehabilitated under the project. In
achievement)      some spots, the speed should be reduced by bumpers to enhance road safety.
                  Reduction percentage of vehicle operating costs on main roads affected by the
Indicator 3 :
                  rehabilitation works
Value
quantitative or 0%                          42.3%                              59%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                    12/31/2008                         12/01/2009
                Percentage of achievement: 139%
Comments
                Decreased fleet age, resulting in lower operating cost partly due to new road
(incl. %
                conditions. Objective would have however been obtained as can be derived from
achievement)
                the sensitivity analysis found in annex 3.
Indicator 4 : Road maintenance financing secured (Budget and expenditures)
Value
quantitative or FCFA 1.105 billion          FCFA 6 billion                     FCFA 4.5 billion
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/01/2002                    12/31/2008                         12/31/2009
                Percentage of achievement: 100%
Comments
                Initial allocations were met until end of 2007. In 2006, Team and UCD revisited
(incl. %
                the target and allocations decreased to 4.5 billion in 2009, but were consistent
achievement)
                with credit covenants.



                                                  iii
Indicator 5 : Competent staff recruited in the UCD road management unit
Value
                                           3 highway                            3 highway
quantitative or 0 highway engineer
                                           engineers                            engineers
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                   12/31/2002                           12/31/2009
                Percentage of achievement: 100%
Comments
                Several other staff was recruited, as the accountant specialist or the
(incl. %
                administrative assistant. The recruitments occurred at the beginning of the
achievement)
                project, but some staff was replaced during the Project.
Indicator 6 : Institutional framework enhanced
                                                                                - Creation of sound
                                                                                strategies for urban
                                                                                development,
                                                                                transport and road
                                                                                maintenance
Value                                      Institutional                        - UCD's
                Actual institutional
quantitative or                            framework                            infrastructure
                framework
Qualitative)                               enhanced                             services are more
                                                                                readily available
                                                                                and greatly
                                                                                improved
                                                                                - 84 staff members
                                                                                trained
Date achieved 06/30/2002                   12/31/2002                           12/31/2009
Comments
                The trained staff and the various strategies developed have greatly impacted the
(incl. %
                institutional framework of the various implementation agency
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Traffic volumes on main roads affected by the rehabilitation works
Value
                                             220,000                             223,000
(quantitative     155,000 vehicles/day
                                             vehicles/day                        vehicles/day
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2002                 06/30/2005                          12/01/2009
Comments
                  Percentage of achievement:100%
(incl. %
                  The traffic did not increase equally on the roads rehabilitated under the project.
achievement)




                                                  iv
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                             IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1    12/04/2002       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    12/09/2002       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  3    05/06/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.15
  4    11/04/2003       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.88
  5    06/18/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.06
  6    12/16/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     3.79
  7    12/30/2004       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     3.79
  8    01/24/2005   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     3.79
  9    06/30/2005      Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                    4.53
                         Moderately                    Moderately
 10    12/14/2005                                                                     9.89
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                                                       Moderately
 11    05/16/2006   Moderately Satisfactory                                          16.54
                                                     Unsatisfactory
 12    10/11/2006   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            23.04
 13    04/11/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            27.98
 14    06/05/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            30.32
 15    11/30/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            33.15
 16    05/29/2008   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            39.46
 17    12/08/2008       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            50.53
 18    06/24/2009       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            55.23
 19    12/22/2009       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            59.02


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     - review of the covenant related
                                                     to funding needs for road
                                                     maintenance in Douala
                                                     - reallocation of credit proceeds
                                                     including:
                                                     addition of MINT/MINTP
 03/22/2006       N       MU    MU           13.63
                                                     components to strengthen the
                                                     institutional environment
                                                     regarding both road
                                                     infrastructure and transport
                                                     services linking the Port of
                                                     Douala to its hinterland



                                              v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     extension of the urban
                                                     development institutional
                                                     strengthening component to
                                                     include pilot slum upgrading
                                                     projects and preparation of the
                                                     Urban and Water Development
                                                     Project




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1       Context at Appraisal

1.      Given the key role played by the port and the city of Douala in the economy of Cameroon
and the sub-region, the project design was to support the urgently needed improvement of the
transport system through: (i) rehabilitation of urban roads, and (ii) institutional strengthening; to
enhance the competitiveness of the port and the city of Douala. The appraised project was fully
in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1996 and the 2000 Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP)1 whose main objectives were to maintain and develop the
road network in both urban and rural areas as well as improve the port's efficiency and
competitiveness.

      BACKGROUND
2.      The city of Douala is one of the major industrial centers of Central Africa. It is
Cameroon's main maritime outlet, handling more than 95 percent of the total imports and
prevalent for exports. It plays an integral role in the economic development of Cameroon (95
percent of the country's total maritime traffic, 60 percent of the national industrial potential, and
70 percent of the national formal economic activity)2 and of neighboring landlocked countries.
Its port handles an annual average freight turn-over of about six million tons. The bulk of goods
shipped to the Central African Republic (CAR), Chad and to a lesser extent the Republic of
Congo, passes through the port of Douala. It was therefore a top priority city for development by
the Government of Cameroon (GOC) to increase its contribution to the competitiveness of the
national economy as a whole and that of the Central African Economic and Monetary
Community (CEMAC) sub-region.

3.      The economic crisis that affected Cameroon between 1985 and 1995 had a significant
impact on the transport sector in Douala. It resulted in a reduction in the volume of public
investment and spending on infrastructure maintenance, leading to the serious degradation of the
network. To remedy the situation, an ambitious road rehabilitation program was launched in
1991. This however did not materialize due to the fact that, both the resources of the Urban
Community of Douala (UCD) and funds transferred from the central government to the UCD had
declined sharply. Thus, transport, especially to and from the port and the industrial areas had
become difficult, costly, and time consuming for workers, trucks, and goods. This resulted in a
reduction in the efficiency and competitiveness of both the port and the city, with several key
arteries barely passable, leading to severe continuous traffic jams. The UCD, conscious of this,
signed in 1999 a performance contract with the government to improve the city management,
and in 2001, the UCD prepared again a comprehensive traffic flows reorganization, and an
urgent rehabilitation program for the main roads to address the most critical urban transport
issues. It was this initiative that gave birth to the Douala Infrastructure Project (DIP).

4.     The government's funding at the time was very limited and the situation at the UCD was
no better. This resulted in both these entities having to rely principally on donor funded
programs. The only prospects available then were the World Bank and France, which was

1IDA/SecM2002-2007
2 Project Appraisal Document-June 2002


                                                 1
preparing a substantial debt relief initiative (the Contrat de Désendettement et de
Développpement, C2D) and chose to allocate part of the funds to this program. The result was a
comprehensive program of over 40 km of key roads to be rehabilitated and/or expanded with
support from these two donors. However, the support of the C2D was contingent on Cameroon
reaching the Highly Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC) completion point.

5.     The rehabilitation of the main roads in Douala was considered crucial to the overall
success of the newly reformed maritime transport and port operations. These had been subject to
constant monitoring at the time both from the government and from the donor community under
the HIPC completion point criteria. It also aimed to allow competitive private urban transport
operators to develop activities. The other key preoccupation of the government and the donor
community was to secure appropriate maintenance of the network (and particularly once the
roads were rehabilitated). Substantial effort had been made by the European Commission and the
Bank in creating a Road Fund to secure the necessary financing for the main intercity network
and to build capacity of Small and Medium Enterprises and the government central
administration, but urban roads were hardly considered in these efforts.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
6.      The PDO was to support the GOC and the UCD in improving the efficiency of the
Douala's transport system connecting the sub-regional port of Douala and its hinterlands. This
objective was to be achieved through the implementation of an urgent program of rehabilitation
of the degraded primary roads connecting the port and the industrial areas; and strengthening the
capacity for urban road management and maintenance. The key performance and output
indicators for the project were as follows:

               Table 1: Key Performance and Output Indicators at Appraisal
     PDO                                               Main Project Output Indicators
      1- Improve the efficiency of Douala's ·          Rehabilitate 23 km of primary roads;
  transport system connecting the port and the ·       Reduce travel time on main roads by 42%
  industrial areas and their hinterlands.              after rehabilitation;
                                               ·       Reduce vehicle operation cost by 42.3%
                                                       after roads rehabilitation.
     2- Strengthen urban road management and ·          Institutional framework enhanced;
  maintenance.                               ·         Ensure appropriate road maintenance budget
                                                       and expenditures
                                                   ·    Recruit      competent     staff:  Finance,
                                                       procurement and technical specialists.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
7.      The PDO was not revised. Key Performance Indicators were similarly left unchanged.
The main Project Output Indicators however changed due to the additional activities which were
incorporated after the midterm review and included increased traffic volumes on main roads
affected by the rehabilitation works.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries



                                               2
8.      The primary target groups identified in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were the
inhabitants of the city of Douala, especially the users of the transport system, the port and
industrial areas. Other beneficiaries included the construction industry through the creation of
jobs of medium and low skills suited especially to the poor and neighboring countries such as
Chad, Central African Republic and Congo through simplified foreign trade.

1. 5 Original Components (as approved)
9.      The project originally consisted of three main components at the appraisal stage. They
were: (i) the urban road rehabilitation program in Douala, (ii) institutional development, and (iii)
support to the project implementation units.

Component 1 ­ Urban Road Rehabilitation ­ (US$58.13 million, Bank financing: US$46.50
million)
10.     Component 1 which accounted for more than 80 percent of the project resources aimed to
rehabilitate 23 kilometers of existing primary roads connecting the port and the industrial areas
to other districts of the city of Douala as well as the intercity road network. It was divided in two
Lots, at an estimated cost of US$58.13 million. This component was managed by the UCD.

Component 2 ­ Institutional Development ­ (US$12.86 million, Bank financing: US$9.00
million)
11.    This component was designed to provide technical assistance for program
implementation, audits and monitoring, project management, capacity building for urban road
management and maintenance, and preparation of an urban development strategy and program
for Douala and other cities, including city development strategies, as well as financial and
organizational audits of UCD. This component had therefore an overall goal of supporting road
and urban strategies beyond Douala, and was technically managed partly by the UCD and partly
by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Development (MINDUH).

Component 3 ­ Support to units of project implementation ­ (US$0.35 million, Bank
financing: US$0.25 million)
12.    This component would support the project implementation entities, namely the project
management unit, the Project Coordination Committee and the Environmental Unit of the
Ministry of Public Works (MINTP).

1.6 Revised Components
13.     The main project components were not revised during implementation. However, a
reallocation of credit proceeds occurred as needed and as agreed with the GOC. In essence, the
award of the two major civil works (Lots 1 and 2) contracts during a period of strong
competition in the road construction industry in Cameroon (due inter alia to the arrival of
Chinese Companies), resulted in a significant drop in the projected costs. In this context, the
UCD in consultation with the other line ministries involved, proposed a reallocation of the credit
proceeds and allowed to increase the outputs of each component.

14.     For Component 1, an additional 4.1 km section of road was incorporated which
constituted the third Lot of rehabilitation, to partly cover insufficient funding on the C2D funded
roads, and provided an alternative route to the city center from Yaoundé and additional relief of
the industrial area.

                                                 3
15.     Component 2 saw an expansion in scope in two ways. With regards to the urban
development institutional strengthening, the component was complemented by: (i) several
studies related to Habitat and city management, (ii) a preparation budget for an Urban and Water
Development Project (PDUE), and (iii) pilot testing of slum upgrading and drainage projects in
the City of Douala for further replication in the PDUE. The latter elements were to be managed
from a technical standpoint by the UCD.

16.    The scope of the institutional strengthening activities was also expanded to capture the
whole Douala port hinterland and not only the city of Douala. This led to the introduction of new
sub-components to support the national transport strategy to be managed by the Ministry of
Transport, and the national road sector to be piloted by MINTP comprising of: (i) strengthening
of the road maintenance planning capacity of MINTP; (ii) a study on the creation of a road
agency; and (iii) a study on performance based contracts.

17.    For Component 3, the operational and training budgets of the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) which were under estimated during project preparation were increased.

1.7 Other significant changes

18.      Extension of Closing Date. The closing date of the project was extended once by 12
months from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009. The extension was mainly due to: (i)
the slow start of the project (not until December 2004) and delays in implementation, (ii) time
required by the UCD to adapt to Bank procedures and adjust to changes in the senior
management team of the UCD, and (iii) time needed to put in place the necessary mechanism
integrating the various line ministries and to fine-tune final expenditure estimates for the
remaining activities in the new project set up. It was therefore mainly aimed at finishing the
institutional activities and low income settlement pilots.

19.     Amendment of Development Credit Agreement (DCA). There were two reallocations
of credit proceeds approved at the Country Director level to reflect these changes, the first in
March 22, 2006 to reflect the change in scope of components, and the second in July 31 2008 to
reflect updated costs after finalization of most procurement activities.




2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

PROJECT PREPARATION




                                               4
20.    Project preparation was driven by the urgent need to improve the transport system which
had suffered significant deterioration due to lack of maintenance. In order to further avoid
damage to the existing road network which would have paralyzed the road traffic and the Port of
Douala, the government requested various donors to fund the rehabilitation of primary roads in
Douala.

21.     A Performance contract, prepared with assistance from the Agence Française de
Développement (AFD, French Development Agency), was signed in December 1999 by the
UCD and the government. Inter alia, this set up a road maintenance account for the city of
Douala and established the modalities of participation of local communities in infrastructure
maintenance. In addition, the GOC committed four billion CFAF to rehabilitate a severely
deteriorated road section and, jointly with the UCD, prepared an emergency rehabilitation
program for the most strategic roads to unlock the Port and industrial areas of Douala and to
improve road traffic, environment and safety. As part of this program, the government and the
UCD committed themselves to allocating regular amounts for road maintenance established in
the Government Policy Letter dated February 1, 2002.

22.      Project preparation benefited from these different actions and a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) in the amount of US$600,000 helped the UCD fund some of the preparation
activities in addition to the AFD financed feasibility, economic and environmental studies.
Design, studies and cost estimates were completed prior to project appraisal, and their
conclusions and recommendations were reflected in the appraisal decisions. The project made
use of rich analyses of previous investment operations and lessons learned in the road
maintenance sector in Cameroon, especially from the implementation completion report of the
Transport Sector Technical Assistance Project.3 It also benefited from active stakeholder
participation.

PROJECT DESIGN

23.     The project design was simple and in line with the government's orientation at the time.
The main lesson applied to this project was that, infrastructure investment alone would not bring
efficiency to the transport and port systems. Only when the institutional development and
support to the various units involved in the management and operation of these systems are
guaranteed, will it be possible to ensure appropriate project performance. The design of the
project was focused on this concept.

24.    The design included a core element of civil works and an institutional component, which
was in line with similar projects at the time. The fiduciary responsibility for the project was
given to the UCD after assessment of both the central government ministry (MINDUH) and the
UCD. From a technical standpoint, oversight of the activities was split between the UCD, the
MINDUH for part of the technical activities linked to institutional development and the
Environmental Unit of the Ministry of Public Works (which had recently been trained) for
environmental oversight. A steering committee for the project was chaired by the MINDUH. In
the context at the time, this aimed at using each resource as efficiently as possible. In retrospect
however, it included a fundamental bias as the fiduciary responsibility is fully with UCD. As a

3 ICR N0. 20044, February 14, 2000


                                                 5
result, the MINDUH (and later other ministries) had to oversee contracts signed by the UCD and
somehow depended on the UCD for access to resources under the project, even if from an
administration standpoint the MINDUH was the controlling ministry of the UCD.

25.   The design of the investment component initially comprised roads to be funded by the
C2D and roads to be funded by the International Development Association (IDA), but their
management was completely separate with no cross conditionality.

26.     Another feature of the project design typical of the context between Cameroon and the
Bank at the time was the set up of constraining conditions with financial implications in terms of
road maintenance funding. These were stated in an additional letter summing up the
requirements for maintenance of the roads to be rehabilitated with IDA and C2D funding over
the next five years. However, these set conditions did not take into account: (i) that delays were
likely to occur both for IDA and for C2D funded roads, as the rehabilitation schedule was
assessed very optimistically, (ii) the nominal budget proposed was far too high compared to the
actual needs of these roads in the period following rehabilitation, and (iii) no consideration was
given to the rest of the road network.

27.     The initial key performance indicators equally, could not fully reflect the various project
outcomes - inclusion of a few key efficiency indicators during the revision of the various
components would have been appropriate. A system to carry out monitoring and evaluation for
the environmental aspects was not put in place within the PIU but rather within one of the line
ministries, which later on proved to be ineffective. However, this was not unusual for projects
prepared at the time.

28.    The road sections chosen appeared to be essential for urban mobility in Douala and as
such the objectives and design remain highly relevant today. The prompt reaction of the Bank
team on the critical transport sector issues faced by the city of Douala at appraisal led to the
mobilization of other donor funding for the Douala Infrastructure Rehabilitation Program.

29.     The project was consistent with the Bank's 1996 CAS and 2000 I-PRSP which
emphasized the maintenance and the development of road network in both urban and rural areas,
and the improvement of the Port efficiency and competitiveness. The project was first conceived
as an urban project, but given that, preparing an urban project would have taken a much longer
time and that the current road network in Douala needed to be urgently upgraded, it was agreed
to focus principally on the road network rehabilitation.4 However, during this project's
implementation, a future urban development project, the Urban and Water Development Support
Project, was approved by the Bank's Board on May, 29 2007, and it benefited from the activities
carried out under the DIP.

30.       Project design is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

QUALITY AT ENTRY



4 Project Apraisal Document, page 9, June 2002.


                                                   6
31.     The design of the project was appropriate for the management of the Civil Works in
Douala and for activities directly implemented by the UCD, probably more so than the initial set
up that had contemplated that all project components would be managed the MINDUH.

32.    However, it also included a fair amount of technical assistance outside the UCD. It may
have been useful to propose the progressive set up of a unit with fiduciary responsibilities in the
MINDUH after building its capacity. This was in fact done several years later when the
preparation of the PDUE started. Instead, a complete management of the project by the UCD was
bound to raise difficulties as it implied that the UCD had to manage funding for others.

33.     The use of credit covenants and conditionality was normal at a time where the country
dialogue was shaped by structural adjustment credits and the goal to reach the HIPC completion
point. However, the projects did not have strong leverage to change the revenue structure of the
UCD and of local financing in general, therefore the request to allocate substantial amounts of
money to the road sector fell mostly on the central government.

34.     The PAD assessed key potential risks that could jeopardize implementation. The
mitigating measures to prevent these risks were not efficient enough, as two main risks identified
and rated as substantial later materialized. The GOC had great difficulties mobilizing counterpart
funds as defined in the Credit Agreement throughout the project. Counterpart funds were
disbursed with delays and in insufficient amounts during the life of the project. Since this was
one of the effectiveness conditions which was not met by the required effectiveness date, this
date was hence pushed back twice. In the same manner, the road maintenance funds planned by
the Government Policy Letter dated February 1, 2002 were never allocated to the Road
Maintenance Account in a timely manner.

35.    Quality at entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation
36.    The initial project design was simple but with the revision of the various components
during implementation, the operation became complex. Its development objective was broad,
and as such gave it flexibility to address issues as they arose, but this made implementation
monitoring difficult. The breadth of the project and its flexibility would have required the
appraisal team to put in place well structured systems to manage uncertainty including planning,
budgeting, synergy among various line ministries involved and monitoring systems which were
inadequate in this project.

37.     Looking back, the project implementation seemed to consistently face challenges, be it on
the civil works component, on the institutional development side, counterpart funding, etc....
This resulted in an overall impression that many elements could have been better implemented or
handled, and implementation was almost never rated as fully satisfactory after early 2005
(moderately satisfactory or moderately unsatisfactory depending on the issues). However, the
project in the end accomplished more than what was initially projected. It more than succeeded
in the implementation of its main component; urban road rehabilitation, which accounted for
over 80 percent of the project resources. It equally completely changed traffic conditions in
Douala for the better; no cost slippage was observed in a sector which had a reputation for bad


                                                7
governance. The project helped prepare several operations that are now implemented in other
major cities. Implementation analysis is therefore difficult, as output goals were achieved, but
often against greater challenges than envisaged and with significant efforts from the project
management and the Bank teams.

38.     As a result of the high competition experienced during the award of the two major civil
contracts (Lots 1 and 2), a cost savings of about 8.1 billion CFAF was made. In effect, Lots 1
and 2 were contracted at 11.3 billion CFAF and 8.8 billion CFAF respectively against the initial
estimates of 14.8 and 13.4 billion CFAF. This cost savings, including the unallocated funds
from the credit proceeds, helped launch in the second half of 2007 a tender for further additional
works for the rehabilitation of 4.1 km of primary road and subsequently other new sub-
components which included: (i) a study on the creation of a road agency for the management of
road maintenance contracts; (ii) a study on performance based contracts, (iii) investment in some
basic infrastructure requirements in two low income settlements, (iv) the construction of a major
sewage canal, and (v) increase of the operational and training budgets for the PIU. These sub-
components however, encountered some major implementation difficulties, as communication
and coordination synergies between line ministries and the UCD were almost nonexistent.

CREDIT COVENANTS
39.     The government experienced great difficulty in meeting its commitment concerning the
replenishment of the Road Maintenance Account, and the same was true for counterpart funds.
These difficulties led to significant delays in project implementation (delayed effectiveness). To
overcome the lack of counterpart resources, the UCD managed to secure funding from the
government during the period prior to reaching the HIPC Completion point (as all projects
needed to be considered satisfactory at the time). The UCD also launched a 7 billion CFAF pre-
financing fund in 2005, to carry out road maintenance pending government's repayment, and
later used a bond issued on the market to pay part of it. However, it is only in 2006 that the Bank
team and the UCD re-evaluated the covenant, and it appeared that: (i) due to the delays in
implementation the figures indicated in the supplemental letter to the DCA did not correspond to
the actual number of kilometers of roads rehabilitated and (ii) that the amount calculated was far
too high for the network considered.
40.     The requirements of the DCA with regard to the maintenance account had therefore
generated a substantial increase in road maintenance funding in Douala, which was partly used
for the secondary network and not for the primary rehabilitated network as initially envisaged.
The Bank team and the UCD therefore decided in 2006 that this credit condition was no longer
relevant, yet requested that the government keep substantial funding to the road maintenance
account in Douala to allow a satisfactory funding of the network. This condition was met, albeit
with slight delays, in 2007, 2008 and 2009.

INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
41.     With reference to the institutional development component, some activities did have a
great impact, such as the city development strategy and the basic studies related to Douala in
general, even if the actual implementation of action plans was not necessarily forthcoming
afterwards. This component did manage to provide a basis for the PDUE preparation studies and
the use of some districts of Douala as pilot and did lay the ground for its smooth implementation.
However management by MINDUH of several studies was deficient, and the addition of


                                                8
components managed by MINTP and MINT from a technical standpoint led to lower than
expected results (several studies cancelled) as the relationship between the UCD and other
agencies was difficult (reluctance of staff from line ministries to report to UCD for fiduciary
matter, and lack of incentives for these staff).

ROAD REHABILITATION
42.    The road rehabilitation component which was the main component of the project
monopolized the operational time of the implementing agency team and hence impeded the
smooth progress of the other components. This component encountered significant difficulties
during project implementation. However, thanks to close supervision from the Bank team and
the UCD, the component's objectives were fully achieved and even exceeded.

43.     The recruitment of the firms in charge of the two initial civil works lots took longer than
planned. The works then started with poor quality outputs, which led to an action plan drawn up
by the Bank team and the UCD with several remedial measures for a closer supervision and
better enforcement of contract provisions. The staff of the consulting firm in charge of
supervision was equally reinforced to this effect. These measures led to significant progress in
terms of quality and quantity of the civil works. One of the two main civil works Lot even
finished ahead of schedule with high quality outputs. For both works contracts, final quantities
and costs remained closely checked and no cost overrun was tolerated by the Client.

44.     However, the management of one of the lots (Lot 1) remained difficult all along the
project and highlighted the weaknesses of contract management by the UCD. The main foreign
contracting firm of Lot 1 sub-contracted a major part of its activities to a local firm, which had
previously been disqualified in the biding process to undertake the work as a main contractor.
This sub-contractor was not only inefficient but also had a strong political influence. It gradually
imposed itself as the lead firm despite not having the required technical or financial capacity to
lead such a project. This resulted in significant delays in implementation, conflict in contract
management, unfinished tasks and poor quality of some works.

45.     Unfortunately, the UCD was not able to correctly enforce contract provisions and the
supervising engineer was also subjected to constant pressure (there were three changes of the
engineer in charge of the lot, out of which probably two were linked to excessive pressure
exercised by the contractor). Being preoccupied by the daily pressures to assert its leadership
role and by the intervention of the subcontractor's leadership at the highest level of the
government, the UCD failed to anticipate the necessary procedures to be implemented during
and at the end of such a conflict ridden contract.

46.     The contracting firm ignored several notifications to close Lot 1 and insisted on being
paid for tasks which both the UCD and the supervising consulting firm considered unjustifiable.
In the end, after all contracting mediation options were exhausted with no agreement reached
between the contracting firm and the UCD; the UCD proceeded with payment of tasks which
were considered acceptable and eventually requested a bailiff to take stock of the uncompleted
tasks. These uncompleted tasks which constituted about two percent of the entire works for the
Lot were later contracted to and completed by a local firm, recruited through a competitive
bidding process.


                                                 9
47.     This situation had no negative financial implication on the overall cost, as quantities were
consistently reviewed and managed by the engineer and the UCD, and the unjustifiable claims
from the contractor were not accepted. A stricter contract management of time and possibly an
early termination of the contract may have led to a faster use of the credit. It is also probably one
of the reasons why the Credit had a US$2 million undisbursed balance.

48.     The other consequence of this difficult contract was that it mobilized most of the UCD
and the Bank team's energy at the expense of other components. During the most critical parts of
the contract the Bank Task Team Leader (TTL) or the Bank co-TTL would be on site every
month to help the UCD deal with project issues.

49.    Another key feature for this component is that the other roads that were to be funded by
the C2D encountered major delays and had to be reduced in scope. Delays were due to the fact
that the HIPC completion was reached only in early 2006 (instead of 2004) and that all
procurement related to the C2D were therefore delayed by more than two years.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E DESIGN
50.    Key performance indicators were agreed upon as part of project design summary to
monitor project performance at several levels during implementation. These indicators were for
the most part measurable and meaningful but referred directly to the road rehabilitation
component, and barely to the institutional support component. The UCD was to monitor and
evaluate these indicators on an ongoing basis.

51.     The consultant firm in charge of the initial economic analysis defined the baseline of
some of these indicators, and the same consultant was later recruited to follow up their progress
at mid-term and at the end of the project. In addition, project technical annual audits were
included in the design in order to identify shortcomings in all technical aspects of the project and
to provide neutral technical advice to the UCD. A matrix providing comparison of performance
indicators agreed at the project appraisal and achieved at project completion is presented in
Annex 2.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION (M&E) IMPLEMENTATION
52.     The M&E system implementation started slowly, but gradually achieved very good
performance when a consultant was recruited to follow up the progress of key indicators after the
midterm review. The PIU did not always provide in a timely manner the values of these
indicators. There was equally neither proper definition of responsibilities nor a manual within the
UCD's internal administration for the follow up of these indicators.

53.     As a result, the indicators were not monitored for a long time during the course of
implementation as noted by the Bank team during several supervision missions. However, it
became imperative to revise the outcome indicators to fully reflect project achievement, after the
revision of the various components as described in section 1.6. An updated economic analysis



                                                 10
was carried out at the end of the project by a government recruited consultant, which helped the
UCD determine the last values of the project's key indicators as outlined in annex 2.

M&E UTILIZATION
54.     The monitoring and evaluation system was used as a basis for assessing the achievement
of the project's targets values and planning the way forward. In the context of data scarcity, as is
the case for most urban cities in Cameroon, the M&E performance is considered adequate as
most of the data collected helped in the review of the city of Douala's transport system. These
values were appropriately collected before, during and at the end of the project and did allow for
a reliable measurement of their impact to the project. The rest of the M&E framework however
was more vague and difficult to follow. One weak area was the monitoring of the social impacts
of the project. The information collected was not fully utilized, and the techniques used to assess
poverty, gender and social impacts proved rudimentary as shown by the content of the
government's final completion report. However, a population of 10,000 inhabitants in the slums
areas benefited from; 500 meters of paved roads, 1,080 meters of walkways; Construction of
more than 800m length of sewage drain; 1,350 meters of pipe borne water network supplying 4
public taps; 3,800 meters of electricity cabling supplying 16 street lights.

55.    Monitoring and Evaluation is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

2.4 Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
56.     Bank Operational Policy OP4.01 on Environmental Assessment was the only safeguards
policy triggered at appraisal for this Category B project. An Environmental Assessment was
carried out and included a simple and straightforward Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
which was adopted during project preparation. Environmental aspects of the project were
therefore addressed in compliance with this EMP. A budget for its implementation was drawn,
and the environmental and social monitoring arrangements and reporting mechanisms equally
defined.

57.     Each of the contractors recruited were required to include in their execution plan an
EMP, which was approved by the UCD. An environmental specialist was thereafter recruited to
follow-up this, as part of the consulting firm in charge civil works supervision. At appraisal, it
was assumed that the Environment Unit of the MINTP would be fully involved in monitoring the
environmental and social aspects of the rehabilitation works. This was based on the fact that this
unit had received substantial training under a previous IDA funded project and had been
evaluated to have this capacity. This unit was not involved at the end of the project as previously
explained. Instead the UCD took over this responsibility with the support of the consulting firm
in charge of civil works supervision. To adjust to this reality, the environmental management
team of the UCD was given specific training to reinforce its capacity to implement the project
EMP.

58.     One of this project's strengths was the access it granted the poor or vulnerable groups
(including women and young adults) to project activities, especially in the investments carried
out in the two low income settlements. During supervision missions, the social concerns of the


                                                11
project were specifically addressed to facilitate the participation of the poorest groups, women
and young adults inclusive. It is worth mentioning that this was one of the first projects in
Cameroon with a very successful social compensation scheme for people affected by the project
and which was equally considered a best practice on social issues. This resulted in improved
standards of living in the project areas.

59.     Unfortunately, very little emphasis was put on Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired
Immune-deficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS) awareness campaigns as outlined in the EMP. This
social risk which is critical in all construction projects was not well mitigated despite the fact that
it was identified in the EMP. Likewise, its impact could not be measured as there were no
indicators developed for HIV/AIDS at appraisal of the project.

INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT
60.     At the time of appraisal, in 2001, it was determined that there would be no need for
resettlement or compensation to affected people as the road rehabilitation activities were on
existing roads. As the urban environment is very dynamic, the city increased dramatically in
population in the following years, with a much larger number of street vendors, small shops and,
in general, a much larger informal sector. Furthermore, the project activities changed to include
different road segments, to make use of the cost savings from the major civil works as explained
previously.

61.     Based on this new circumstance, the UCD decided to prepare resettlement action plans
following the Bank's recommendation in order to compensate people affected by the project. The
resettlement plan was developed for all sections rehabilitated under the Project. A sociologist
was recruited by the UCD for this, assisted by the consulting firm in charge of civil works
supervision. The Safeguard team of the Bank which carried out a mission in April 2005 to this
effect, equally made a significant contribution to its success. These resettlement plans were well
implemented, despite delays in their approval by the UCD. Six hundred and forty two persons
and one industry were compensated an approximate sum of US$1.5 million. The Integrated
Safeguards Data Sheet of the project was never revised to reflect this newly triggered operational
policy (OP 4.12) and the resettlement action plan was never published in the InfoShop, even
though the project was supervised in accordance to it and de facto implemented in compliance
with the terms of OP 4.12.

62.    Safeguards compliance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

63.     Project accounting and financial management reporting systems, including arrangements
for audits have been moderately satisfactory. There was a financial accounting issue related to
outstanding bills which had to be settled before the end of the grace period which was due to the
fact that the UCD had no prior experience in closing Bank financed projects. This problem was
eventually resolved with the support of the Bank's Financial Management team.

64.     The difficulties encountered by the government in meeting its commitment to the
counterpart funds mirrors the difficulties mentioned above for the allocation of funds to the road
maintenance account. This led to serious drawbacks within the financial management of the


                                                  12
project with recurring payment problems for contractors and consultants, until the very end of
the project. Payment delays were also often long even on the components funded by the Bank,
which created cash flow tensions on the main civil works contracts at their beginning.

65.    Project financial statements were submitted to the Bank with significant delays during the
whole project duration and the quality of these reports was often not satisfactory. Some
improvements however, occurred during the second half of the project following extensive input
from the Bank's supervision teams. Nevertheless, these difficulties did not impede in general the
timely and reliable provision of necessary information that was required to manage and monitor
the implementation of the project. Audit reports were all submitted on time.

66.    Financial management is however rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

PROCUREMENT

67.      There were no major procurement issues recorded except that relating to Lot 1 of civil
works as described above which led to significant delays. All contracts were awarded according
to procedures despite slight deficiencies recorded during post review. The prequalification and
post qualification processes of the two main civil works contract, which was almost the first
activity of the project, was carried out very slowly and probably with not enough care in the
verification of qualification. The UCD procurement team was subsequently dynamic and
implemented the World Bank's procedures appropriately. Some delays with bid evaluations in
activities carried out by the line ministries were noted, and they hindered the good progress of
the institutional component. Responsibility for these delays was shared between these line
ministries and the UCD, which did not pay the same level of attention to activities benefiting
other structures.

68.      While this is not procurement per se, contract management was sometimes less
satisfactory than the procurement process itself. An example is the authorization given to
subcontract a large share of Lot 1, which was not defined well enough to provide appropriate
safeguards to the UCD in case of failures.

69.    Procurement performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.



2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

70.    The PDUE was designed to pursue and consolidate the objectives of the closed project in
terms of institutional development, city strategy and slum upgrading. During the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) mission it was agreed that data collection for measuring post-
completion performance would be borne by this project, which would also be required to
monitor and report their implementation on an ongoing basis as part of supervision missions.

71.     Urban road conditions in Douala still require significant funding for rehabilitation and
development, which are beyond the financial capacity of the city of Douala and compete with all
other cities for government funding. Unfortunately, there were not enough resources to prepare
another meaningful operation with IDA funding. The UCD and the government are currently

                                               13
negotiating with France and other donors to secure additional funding to rehabilitate the East and
West entries to the city.

72.     During the ICR mission, the Bank team also agreed with the government that the
following indicators would be used to monitor post completion operation of the project;

     · For road rehabilitation: (i) amount of road maintenance account resources allocated
       annually to the UCD for the maintenance of its primary road network, and (ii) Status of
       road networks expenditures on road maintenance. These indicators will be monitored by
       analyzing annual budgetary allocations and road maintenance contracts executed.

     · For institutional support and capacity development: (i) Recruit more staff to enforce the
       technical departments of the UCD, (ii) make the existing data-base on road maintenance
       management operational, and (iii) complete transfer of already constructed basic
       infrastructure to the development associations of the low income settlements for full
       ownership, continuous maintenance and sustainability.

73.     These indicators are intended to verify that the institutional efficiency promoted under
this project will be sustained by the UCD.

3.       Assessment of Outcomes

3. 1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

74.    These were assessed in terms of responsiveness of the project to current circumstances as
discussed above. This project was essentially designed to contribute to rehabilitate the core road
network of Douala. Its implementation arrangement with the UCD as implementing agency was
probably the only affordable option at the time given the low capacity of MINDUH. There was a
good match between the initial objective of the project and the UCD's economic and transport
context at inception. The overall project design, complied fully with the project objectives.

75.     The project was equally consistent with the UCD's priorities at appraisal, the objective of
the 1996 CAS and the 2000 I-PRSP which was to maintain and develop road network in both
urban and rural areas and improve the Port of Douala's efficiency and competitiveness. It
remains fully relevant today, as stated in the GOC's revised Growth and Employment Strategy
and in line with the Bank's most recent CAS of February 23, 2010, whose objective emphasizes
the reduction of infrastructure and transport constraints.

76.     The relevance of the project's objective, its design and implementation is rated
Satisfactory.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

77.     The project's key development objective, which was to improve the efficiency of Douala
transport system connecting the sub-regional port of Douala and its hinterland through the
rehabilitation of degraded primary roads connecting the port and the industrial areas, is rated
satisfactory. The Urban Road Rehabilitation component which constituted more than 80 percent
of the project resources, planned to rehabilitate 23 km of roads but at the end achieved the

                                                14
rehabilitation of 27 kilometers of such roads. This de facto improved traffic conditions in terms
of access to and from the city.

78.     One of the project's outcomes was the gains in travel time and vehicle operating costs
(VOC) as shown in Table 2 below and Annex 3. The three road sections which were
rehabilitated, now have mean reference speed of 40 km/hour (higher than the 21 km/hr estimate
in the PAD), which exemplified the improvements in road conditions achieved under the project.

                Table 2: VOC and mean speed (See Annex 3 for more details)

                                  Mean speeds (km/hr)                                Reduction in
                                                                  Real growth of        VOC
                         Before project         After            Mean speeds (%)
                          (2002)                project (2009)                      (million CFAF)
MEAN VALUE                   21                       40              90%               155 826



79.    Sustainability of road management by the UCD has improved significantly, through
increased maintenance funding even if there is no formalized mechanism securing consistent
road maintenance funds, and with the creation of a specific directorate in charge of maintenance
and investment. The limited results obtained by the Institutional Development and Support to
other ministries, as discussed below in Section 3.3, do not have a major influence on the rating of
the PDO given their very small size and possible contribution.

80.    The project has transformed living conditions in two low income settlements in Douala
and laid the ground for larger scale investments in five major Cameroonian cities under the
current Bank financed, Water and Urban Development Project. Besides providing access to
potable water and basic transport facilities, the investment in the low settlements helped
improved safety and security conditions of the inhabitants by the provision of street lights.

81.    The achievement of PDO is rated Satisfactory.



3.3 Outputs by Components

82.    A comparative presentation of pre- and post-project output indicators is shown in Annex
2. It must be mentioned that meeting project outputs was further enhanced by the decision to
finance additional activities in the rehabilitation and institutional development components from
the cost savings as discussed previously. This initiative helped uphold the relevance of this
component to the attainment of the PDO.

83.     The key output indicators of the project were: (i) kilometers rehabilitated in Douala, (ii)
the travel time on the main roads, (iii) vehicle operating costs, (iv) daily traffic on main roads
and (v) the setting up of a financing mechanism for the replenishment of the Road Maintenance
Account.



                                                 15
84.    Overall, the project outputs are rated Satisfactory.

Component 1 ­ Urban Road Rehabilitation

85.       Urban road rehabilitation constituted more than 80 per cent of the project resources. The
planned target was 23 kilometers of roads rehabilitated, at an estimated cost of US$58.13
million. This component was achieved at a higher level than initially planned, as a third lot for a
4.1 km road section was added later on in 2006, thanks to the cost savings made from the two
initial lots. Hence, approximately 27 kilometers of primary roads were rehabilitated. The road
works were completed in 2008 at a final cost of US$67.88 million with the Bank contributing 78
percent of that total (US$53.02 million). Nevertheless, the completion of this component faced
several challenges as explained previously. Lot 1 was completed with delays due to a difficult
contractor, but Lots 2 and 3 were fully completed without difficulties and a good quality of
construction. Additional consolidation works due to small landslides were added to Lot 3 to
ensure safe conditions for neighboring settlements.

86.      The civil works have improved the traffic circulation conditions in the city of Douala as
travel time on the main roads was reduced by almost 65 percent of the targeted value. The traffic
volume on the same roads also increased by about 43.8 percent. This was mainly attributed to
reduced vehicle operating costs, increased traffic volumes and reduced travel time. This
component proved to be economically justifiable, as its net present value (NPV) of 141billion
CFAF far exceeded the estimated NPV at appraisal of 45.9 billion CFAF.

87.    Component 1 is rated Satisfactory.

Component 2 ­ Institutional Development

88.     Component 2 included: provision of technical assistance for program implementation,
audits and monitoring, project management, capacity building for urban road management and
maintenance, and preparation of an urban development strategy and program for Douala and
other cities, including city development strategies, and financial and organizational audits of the
UCD. It was originally designed for the UCD and MINDUH, but was later extended to MINT
and MINTP after its revision to include new activities financed from the cost savings explained
above. It equally contributed significantly to the satisfactory implementation of the preparation
of the PDUE.

89.     The pilot urban investment identified to upgrade slums in Bessengué and Cité de la Paix
was substantially completed. Despite the weakness of the supervision engineer and the slow
execution by the small and medium size enterprises recruited under the project, works were
completed without any major deficiency and within the project extended duration. The everyday
life conditions in these areas have been enhanced through the improvement of their roads
network, provision of potable water, street lights and the construction of a sewage disposal canal.
Activities carried out include; 500 meters of paved roads; 1,080 meters of walkways;
Construction of more than 800m length of sewage drain; 1,350 meters of pipe borne water
network supplying 4 public taps; 3,800 meters of electricity cabling supplying 16 street lights
over a 44 hectare of residential area with population of 10,000 inhabitants. The participation of
the population in the design and execution of these investments, through their local development


                                                16
association, was quite significant and integral to its success while ensuring ownership and
sustainability.

90.     Implementation of the institutional support component outside the UCD was slow,
resulting in unfinished activities at project closing. Studies carried out under this component
were hardly translated into action plans as explained earlier. However, the bases for sound
strategies for urban development, transport and road maintenance now exist thanks to this
component. The organization of the UCD's infrastructure oversight function, the reinforcement
of its capacity in road maintenance as well as the training of its key staff have equally improved
as a result of its achievement. Notwithstanding, the component failed to secure a financially
sustainable road maintenance funding for the UCD as prescribed at appraisal and which was one
of its major expected outputs and key indicator. This is probably due to the fact that it is closely
related to decentralization and to local fiscal issues, and that overcoming the challenges faced by
sub national entities in raising funds is probably an issue that needs to be tackled in the overall
country dialogue with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the donor community as a
whole rather than within the scope of an investment project. Secondly, the initial amount which
was later reviewed was over estimated from the onset, making it unrealistic to achieve.

91.    This component is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

Component 3 ­ Support to the Project Implementation Units

92.      It included support to the project implementation units, namely; the PIU, and the
Environmental Unit of MINTP. From the onset of the Project, there were recruitments of staff
from both the public and private sectors for the PIU, including the recruitment of a civil engineer
for project management, a procurement specialist, a municipal engineer for the relocation of
utility networks and coordination with utility companies, two municipal engineers to oversee the
civil works, an accountant and an administrative and Finance officer (RAF). A budget increase
became inevitable, due mainly to increased number in staff recruitment and training, and the
introduction of new activities. This budget which was initially underestimated was thus increased
to address these needs through the DCA amendments of March 2006 and July 2008, respectively.

93.    This component is rated Moderately Satisfactory.



3.4 Efficiency

94.     At appraisal a full economic evaluation was carried out on the road rehabilitation
component only. The NPV and Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) were computed for an
assumed project life cycle of 25 years. The analysis used the World Bank Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-IV), with input and output data from pre and post project
traffic surveys. The resulting overall NPV and EIRR for the rehabilitated road sections are
presented in Table 3 below and additional details can be found in Annex 3.

                           Table 3: Summary of Economic Analysis
                                       Baseline Value (PAD)           ICR Value (2009)


                                                17
       Cost                            80.4 billion CFAF
       NPV                             45.9 billion CFAF              141 billion CFAF
       EIRR                            32%                            54%

95.     Even under conservative assumptions ignoring the indirect, non-measurable benefits of
the project such as reduction in accident and air pollution, the project will remain economically
viable even after its completion. Its calculated EIRR and NPV are significantly higher than at
appraisal.

96.      The project shows an excellent overall economic rate of return of 54 percent, which is
more than 1.5 times the estimated appraisal value of 32 percent. The NPV effectively tripled
from 45.9 to 141 billion CFAF. An analysis on travel time and vehicle operating costs (VOC)
shows a gain of 87 and 59 percent respectively compared to baseline values (see Annex 3).
Savings from the first two works contracts of about 15 percent led to the incorporation of new
activities including an alternative access to the city center of Douala and its industrial zone from
Yaoundé. Nevertheless, the rating of the efficiency of this project is affected mainly by its
management pitfalls as explained previously. These led to unaccomplished activities in the
institutional development component, protracted contract management, and a longer
implementation period.

97.    A sensitivity analysis suggests that the NPV and EIRR are more sensitive to gain in time
savings and VOC than to increase in traffic. A 30 percent traffic increase will result only in an
increase of four to seven percent of the NPV and EIRR respectively. Meanwhile, a reduction by
only two percent of the initial discounted rate of 12 percent will result into a 28 percent increase
in NPV (39 billion CFAF).

98.    Project efficiency is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

99.     The road rehabilitation component that accounted for over 80 percent of project resources
shows positive results. Most of the main outcome indicators were substantially met, although
over a longer timeframe than expected. Of the planned target of 23 kilometers, approximately 27
kilometers of primary roads were rehabilitated. The extra 4.1 km which constituted the third Lot
of rehabilitation, equally provided an alternative route to the city center from Yaoundé with
additional relief of traffic circulation to the industrial area.

100. Traffic circulation conditions in the city of Douala have significantly improved as travel
time on its main roads has reduced by almost 65 percent of the targeted value. Similarly, the
traffic volume on the same roads has increased by about 43.8 percent.

101. The project facilitated the transition to the new Bank-financed PDUE Project, which will
now serve as a platform to monitor the project indicators after completion. However, some
studies were not achieved in the project institutional component, and the recommendations of
others out were also not fully implemented.



                                                18
102. The extension of the project's closing date by one year helped overcome some policy and
managerial challenges as well as enabled the effective completion of works in the low income
urban settlements which significantly improved livelihood. However, results obtained were
impeded by the fact that the PIU and the UCD top management still needed to focus on the
protracted conflict resolution of Lot 1 civil works, even if most of the works themselves had
been completed for more than two years. This means that especially the staff of the infrastructure
directorate of UCD could not allocate enough time for capacity building, as had initially been
planned.

103. Project outcomes remained significant and the economic viability of the project is highly
justified as previously described. Nonetheless, delays in securing the agreed upon funds for road
maintenance and in allocating these funds prevented the planned road maintenance program from
being implemented effectively at the start of the project.

104.   The overall achievement of the project is therefore rated Satisfactory.

3.6 Overarching Themes, other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects and social development

105. The impact on poverty, gender and social development by the project is quite significant
as it generated employment opportunities, many of them requiring medium and low skills.
Substantial efforts were provided by the project team to improve social conditions of the urban
population at large through the design of contextual project activities. The gain in travel time and
reduced VOC resulted in lower transport cost which was particularly advantageous to low
income urban commuters (see Figure 3.1 of Annex 3).

106. Good access to the port and industrial areas are strategic for economic growth,
employment and poverty alleviation. It is noteworthy that the upgrading of the low income
settlements, helped improve the living condition of the inhabitants who for many years were
subjected to deplorable social and health conditions. The installation of footbridges and
streetlights enhanced safety and security in these areas and the provision of access to potable
water, construction of a sewage disposal canal and the upgrading of their road network
significantly improved their mobility and health conditions. No negative impact has been
reported on human lives as a result of the project.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

107. The following activities were undertaken to develop the institutional capacity of the UCD
and the various line ministries involved in the project implementation: (i) leveraging financing
from the GOC and other donors for the rehabilitation of primary road network in Douala which
has helped created a consistent maintenance funds for the UCD; (ii) development of a Priority
City Development Plan for the city of Douala which would help the UCD to prioritize its
investments and define concrete development actions; (iii) institution of an accounting and
financial management system and provision of practical technical support and advice for its
operation, as currently utilized by the ongoing Bank financed PDUE project and which has also
helped improve significantly the management efficiency of the UCD; (iv) assist MINDUH
develop the vision of implementing and expanding the new concept of upgrading low income


                                                19
urban settlements through the PDUE project, which is now being expanded to five major cities of
Cameroon; (v) implementation of studies that helped in the development of the institutional
capacity of the various line ministries on roads and transport strategy, urban development
program and strategy, and road maintenance strategy; (vi) development of a road management
data base for the UCD which has helped it better plan its road investments and (vii) personnel
training in relevant subjects as spelled out in the training plan ( a total of 84 staff were trained)
which has helped improved skills and staff output.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

108. The cost savings derived from contracting the two main lots of the road rehabilitation
component had positive unintended benefits. It partially relieved the shortage of funds from the
C2D, and helped fund the third lot of this component which provided an alternative access to the
city center of Douala and its industrial zone from Yaoundé. This alternative access greatly
improved traffic circulation conditions and improved the outputs of the project. Other significant
unintended outcomes resulting from these cost savings were the low income settlement pilot
program, including the paving of 500 meters of road in the low income settlement areas and the
construction of a major primary sewage canal which will considerably ease the activities of the
ongoing Bank financed PDUE project in these areas, as well as improve the living conditions of
the inhabitants. These outcomes also laid the foundation for future investment in similar areas
around the country.

3.7 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

109.     This is a core ICR which does not require a beneficiary survey/stakeholder workshop.

4.     Assessment of risks to development outcomes

110.     Overall project risk was rated moderate at appraisal and analyzed in terms of failure to
achieve critical assumptions to project indicators. This analysis appears appropriate for most of
the assumptions made. However, some key risks identified at appraisal became effective and still
remain potential even after project completion. These included: counterpart funding shortfalls
and lack of appropriate capacity by the project management units. Although the project risk
identification was suitable, the mitigating measures did not succeed in fully addressing these
potential risks. The lack of synergy among line ministries and inability of the UCD to find timely
solutions to resolve the persistent contractual conflict relating to Lot 1 of the civil works, which
emerged later on during implementation, became a major risk to the overall project outcomes as
well.

111. A combination of some new measures taken to mitigate potential risks and the fact that
funding for road maintenance by the UCD while insufficient has been consistent over the years
serve as positive signs to mitigating risks to development outcomes. The two major risks to the
project's development outcomes are: (i) the consistent contribution by the GOC or the UCD to
the Road Maintenance Account, and (ii) the translation of key studies on institutional
strengthening and development into concrete actions. Given that in Cameroon like elsewhere in
sub-Saharan Africa, road maintenance policy reversals are quite possible considering limited
resources available, the UCD needs to remain vigilant and keep building capacity and adopt new


                                                 20
ways of managing its road networks, and to start implementing some of the funding proposals for
road maintenance, even if the path to sustainable financing may be slow.

112.   Risk to development outcomes is rated as Moderate.

5. Assessment of bank and borrower performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

113.     The project design was relevant and responsive to the client's needs. However,
limitations in risk analysis discussed in Section 4 above and the fact that not all project
components had clear performance indicators and baseline data from the onset are factors
affecting quality at entry. For example, the institutional component included only one key output
indicator, even after its revision which increased its scope. Besides, the arrangements involving
the UCD as fiduciary agent for line ministries were conducive to conflicts. There are however
indications that the project preparation team was pushed into this by the prevailing weak capacity
of the MINDUH and the lack of other tools to follow up on sector policy, which was a strong
demand of the government at the prime minister and minister of planning level. On the other
hand, the flexibility of the project enabled the Bank to finance additional activities which helped
enhance the attainment of the PDO and help develop other sector projects downstream.

114. The project was well designed, with substantial consultations held and with clearly stated
objectives. The PPF was adequately funded and experienced Bank staff members were assigned
to the operation. The skill mix for project preparation and in-depth analysis of lessons learned
from previous operations was equally good. Safeguards preparation was probably not as
thorough as OP 4.12 was not triggered. The analysis of the road maintenance issue probably did
not foresee enough the risks linked to the potential failure or delay of the C2D and the set up of
the legal covenant related to funding was probably not realistic.

115.   The Bank's performance on Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.




(b) Quality of Supervision

116. The Task Team Leadership changed four times during project implementation, which no
doubt affected the smooth progress of the project. It may have equally contributed to delays at
the beginning, as the TTL was changed three times during the first three years of
implementation. The Quality Assurance Group carried out a Quality at Supervision review in
2004 and rated the quality of supervision as moderately unsatisfactory. Issues raised were
articulated around; (i) inordinate delay in the procurement of Civil Works caused by a faulty
packaging at entry and time-consuming background checks of bidders' qualification, (ii) lack of
compliance with the payment schedule of yearly contribution to the Urban Roads Maintenance
Fund and (iii) compliance with the Bank's Safeguard Policies. The report criticized the way
supervision was conducted and recommendations were made to improve it. Later on, these


                                                21
recommendations were applied by the Bank team from early 2005. For example the same TTL
was kept from mid-2005 to the closing date and the Bank reinforced its support to the project in
procurement and civil works oversight. Good cooperation between the Bank team and the UCD,
improved results monitoring, re-orientation of actions and improved impact through constant
innovation were other positive contributions from the Bank team.

117. After 2005, the team established during the whole critical period of roads contract
implementation a very close supervision, with either the TTL or the Co-TTL coming on site
every month, complemented by two missions involving senior management, and missions every
six months from an experienced civil engineer. The team also maximized the synergies between
Country Office and Washington based staff, inter alia to alleviate the pressure related to the
conflict between the contractor of Lot 1 and the UCD. There was significant involvement by the
Bank's team in the resolution of day to day crises. The actions taken by the Bank to resolve
implementation bottlenecks were therefore adequate. Its efforts at strengthening Monitoring and
Evaluation were probably not sufficient. Supervision aide-memoires for the implementation
phase were extensive and provided highlights on key issues and prompt information to the client
and Bank management.

118.   The Quality of Bank Supervision is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

119. In determining the rating for the overall bank performance, various aspects were taken
into account. These included: (i) moderate quality at entry, (ii) the strong cooperation between
the Project team and the government, (iii) the timeliness of the Bank's intervention to help the
government resolve various crises, such as the replenishment of the Road Maintenance Account
or the counterpart funding shortfalls and the termination of the Lot 1 civil works contract, and
(iv) the achievement of the project development objectives.

120.   Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.




5.2 Borrower performance
(a) Government performance

121. The UCD's signing of a performance contract with the government in December 1999 to
set up a road maintenance account and to establish the modalities of participation of the local
communities in infrastructure maintenance was key to shaping the project objectives. In addition,
its commitment of 4 billion CFAF to rehabilitate a severely deteriorated road section and its
support to the UCD to prepare an emergency rehabilitation program for the most strategic roads
to unlock the Port and the industrial areas of Douala, were strong signals of full commitment and
ownership at project inception.


                                               22
122. There was however a perceived risk at project inception that the GOC would not respect
its commitment concerning the replenishment of Road Maintenance Account and project
counterpart funds, a risk that was actually validated. Counterpart funds were disbursed with
delays and in insufficient amounts. This resulted in the postponement of the effectiveness date on
two occasions as counterpart funds were part of the effectiveness conditions. Similar shortages
appeared in 2004, 2005 and in 2008-2009, which prevented the project from having a final fully
satisfactory implementation rating. Similarly, the funds planned by the Government Policy
Letter dated February 1, 2002 were usually not allocated to the Road Maintenance Account in a
timely manner and resulted in significant delays in project implementation. These funds even
though initially overestimated as explained above, subsequently contributed to the downgrading
of the project's implementation performance ratings to unsatisfactory.

123. The GOC was slow in forging consensus to enhance synergy among line ministries,
which was critical in attaining the desired outcomes. They are epitomized by the lack of
leadership by the MINDUH during most of the project implementation. Despite several measures
taken during the course of the project to facilitate the remittance of the various amounts owed by
the government, the results obtained were never sustained.

124.   The GOC's performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agencies Performance

125. At appraisal, the project was designed to be implemented by the MINDUH. However,
after the review of the various components, the fiduciary responsibility for the new activities
(procurement and financial management) remained fully with the UCD, while the line ministries
set up technical teams to prepare procurement documents and oversee activities in their domains
of competence.

126. The UCD was the main implementing agency with the PIU being responsible for general
project coordination. This unit was set up at project inception and had very little experience on
bank-financed projects. It demonstrated a weakness from the onset in the effective monitoring of
project activities. The implementation of contract terms with the various contracting firms
suffered from high level political interference and relatively weak supervision consultants. The
PIU and the UCD had difficulties to manage the beginning of the two main road contracts (Lots
1&2) as explained in section 2.2 above and were consistently challenged on Lot 1 supervision.
This resulted in a negative impact on the overall PDO rating during part of the implementation.
Likewise, the UCD failed to anticipate the necessary procedures needed to terminate the Lot 1
contract. Several attempts to resolve pending managerial issues yielded very little fruit. Another
setback was the lack of proper assignment of responsibilities within the UCD's internal
administration for the follow up of outcome indicators. Hence, these indicators were not
monitored for a long time over the course of project implementation.

127. Project financial statements were submitted to the Bank with significant delays and often
with unsatisfactory quality. The PIU also experienced a financial accounting challenge related to
payment of outstanding bills which had to be settled before the end of the grace period.
However, some improvements occurred toward the end of the project following input from the
Bank's supervision team which helped improve project performance.


                                               23
128. The poor dialogue and lack of synergy between the line ministries and the UCD impeded
the smooth progress of the project. Communication between them was almost nonexistent. The
implementation arrangement at appraisal or during the revision of the components did not take
into account these factors. Consequently, the UCD as the main implementing agency had no
authority to ensure appropriate coordination of the various activities carried out by these
ministries whose commitment to project implementation was not very active. As a result, some
of the studies earmarked were cancelled, unfinished or not translated into action plans.

129.   The performance of the implementation agencies is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

130. Based on the combination of the two ratings above, overall Borrower performance is
rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
6.1 Project Preparation and Design

131. The project was simple at the beginning with its three components clearly linked to the
PDO, thus favoring a clear assessment of its outcomes with respect to set targets. However, with
institutional responsibilities being shared among several line ministries later on, things became
much more complex. The components that had the least success were those requiring inter-
agency coordination. Nevertheless project design could have recognized the weak institutional
environment within the implementing agencies by limiting the spread of the project. A key
lesson in this regard would be to design simpler project institutional set up and avoid their spread
across ministries. Project design should also include an agreed exit strategy with an action plan
which defines clear responsibilities during all stages of implementation to ensure that each
agency concerned has a good grasp of its role and is committed to its implementation.

132. A fortunate but unforeseen situation was the financing of the third lot of civil works from
cost savings which provided an alternative access to the city center of Douala and its industrial
zone from Yaoundé. It will be good to anticipate such opportunities in future similar projects in
order to use a flexible project design to accommodate cost savings in a more creative manner to
enhance achievement of the PDO. This is partly taken into account in the recently approved
improved processes for project restructuring.

133. At the time of the project implementation, current measures to use savings and keep them
within a given IDA country envelope had also not been put in place. In a case such as this one, it
would probably have been preferable to use part of the proceeds to create a separate small
technical assistance project for institutional strengthening in the urban and transport sectors using
part of the savings. It would have improved accountability of beneficiaries.

134. This project should be commended for its innovative application of investment in low
income settlements within the urban set up of Douala. This was the first of its kind in Cameroon
and is now being expanded to other major cities of the country through the Bank financed
PDUE. Given that it was a pilot investment, more emphasis should have been placed on



                                                 24
documenting lessons learned and on developing the capacities of local small and medium
enterprises which would have been very useful for similar future investments.

135. Institutional development and capacity building are critical factors to ensure
sustainability during and after project. Experience suggests that best results are achieved through
long-term relationships where new ideas can be introduced indirectly and gradually, in pursuit of
a shared vision and with a clear road map. It is also critical to support institutional building by
encouraging synergy among implementing agencies while making sure that all initiatives are
demand-driven and developed in a participatory manner. Following this approach could have
helped to limit the shortfalls observed on components that involved line ministries.

6.2 Project Implementation

136. Non-payment of counterpart funding has dire consequences on project performance. Not
only does it reduce the output of contractors, resulting in poor performance with associated costs,
but counterpart funds payment delays can also result in nonpayment of outstanding bills leading
to a reputational risk for both the government and the Bank. It is therefore recommended that all
Bank credits for similar projects finance 100 percent of the cost to avoid such risks.

137. In addition, supervision missions need to put more emphasis on procurement and contract
management using all required skills. The use of external technical support was done for this
project with an international road expert whose participation in most supervision missions
proved to be of great value to orient contract management and improve risk assessment during
implementation.

138. Strengthening institutional setup and capacity building usually takes a long time. In order
to successfully carry out institutional reforms, it is critical that: (i) studies have strong ownership,
commitment and sufficient resources for implementation of the accepted recommendations; and
(ii) the concerned institution should interact with others involved in project implementation in
order to ensure the right synergy is in place. This project would have accomplished more if this
was the case. Future projects should seek to design framework that integrates this.

139. The need for a clear articulation of outcome indicators is true for all projects, but is
particularly important for broadly defined projects which cover more than one component with
diverse activities of institutional/capacity building nature. This will facilitate improved
monitoring by the implementing agencies, unambiguous evaluation of performance at every
stage, and identification of timely corrective actions. A formal review and revision of indicators
should equally be built into the legal documentation of the project. With increased focus on
outcomes, appraisal documents now have more appropriate indicators at the outset, but the
problem persists during implementation as was the case of this project whose outcomes mainly
focused on the road rehabilitation component.

6.3 Project Supervision

140. Continuous and quality supervision missions by the Bank team, using resources both
from Country Offices and Washington DC, was very typical of this project in its latter phase of
implementation and are important and critical. This is essential to ensure that steady progress and
effective supervision are maintained to readily address specific needs during implementation.

                                                  25
141. The necessary adjustments made during implementation to ensure project objectives were
fully met, as a result of: (i) good cooperation between the Bank team and the UCD, (ii) the
sharing of monitoring results, (iii) the re-orientation of actions and, (iv) the search for improved
impact through, knowledge sharing and guidance in decision making. However, the Bank's
incentive structure is not conducive to several staff being responsible of supervision and
therefore this mostly relies on the goodwill of team members. Especially when conflicts with
contractors can easily degenerate into governance related issues, it is also probably critical that
not all staff involved in supervision be based in the field.

142. Many changes in project leadership from the Bank's side, as was the case in this Project,
had a negative effect on the overall progress and performance of the project. Extreme care
should therefore be taken in the assignment of projects staff, taking into consideration the
various factors that impact staff members such as retirement, transfers and change of role or
sector. In the case of inter-regional transfers, consideration should be made to maintain the same
TTL to preserve institutional knowledge and prevent some of the backlash that was experienced
in the course of the several TTL changes that occurred in this project.

143. Key lessons learned related to environmental issues include the need to prepare an
implementation safeguards instrument with clear measureable indicators in order to ensure close
supervision with consistent support from the government and the Bank team. With growing
concerns about global warming and climate change, and an added emphasis on scaling up related
mitigation measures, future operations could support these aspects in project design and monitor
some key indicators even if the project cannot be held accountable for them. For example, no
data was collected for air pollution, which was identified from the onset as one of the main
impacts resulting from poor road conditions.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
Not applicable




                                                26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)5
                                                                                    Actual/Latest
                                                   Appraisal Estimate                                              Percentage of
               Components                                                           Estimate (USD
                                                    (USD millions)                                                  Appraisal
                                                                                       millions)
 1. REHABILITATION PROGRAM                                    58.13                      67.88                           117%
 2. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE,
                                                              12.86                         13.28                        103%
AUDITS AND TRAINING
 3. SUPPORT TO PMU, PCC AND
EU FOR PROJECT
                                                                0.35                          2.70                       771%
IMPLEMENTATION AND
MONITORING6
 4. PPF REFINANCING                                             0.60                          0.10                        17%



                    Total Baseline Cost                       71.94                         83.96                        117%

Physical Contingencies
                                                                0.00                          0.00                        0.00

Price Contingencies
                                                                0.00                          0.00                        0.00
                     Total Project Costs                      71.94                         83.96
Front-end fee PPF                                               0.00                          0.00                         .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                              0.00                          0.00                         .00
           Total Financing Required                           71.94                         83.96




(b) Financing
                                                                             Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                                         Type of              Estimate            Estimate Percentage of
               Source of Funds
                                                       Cofinancing             (USD                (USD        Appraisal
                                                                              millions)           millions)
 Borrower                                                                  15.60               20.47         131%
 International Development Association
                                                                           65.57               63. 12               96.26%
(IDA)7


5 Increased figure was due to weakened dollar /SDR exchange rate. There was no cost overrun and no additional funds from the Bank
6 Increased in actual estimate is due to the contribution of both Alliance and C2D to this component
7 The Appraisal estimate include unallocated funds to the PAD 56.35 USD millions estimate


                                                                    27
     
                                                        Other External
                                                                       0.5                        0.22                  44%
                                                        Partner
                                                        Other External
                                                                       0.2                        0.15                  75%
                                                        Partner




8 The contributions of Cities Alliance and C2D was mainly for the financing of the City Development Strategy for the city of Douala


                                                                      28
      Annex 2. Outputs by Component
        Objectives                         Key Performance Indicators                               Status as of June 2009

Sector-Related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:                                     Enhanced traffic circulation conditions resulting
Maintain and develop the       Status of the networks                                 from an improved status of road networks.
road network in both urban                                                            Reduction percentage of travel times on main roads
and rural areas                                                                       affected by the rehabilitation works by 47.5%.
                               Expenditures on road maintenance
                                                                                       Maintenance expenditures partially stabilized In
                                                                                      2006, the team and the UCD revisited the target
                                                                                      values for this indicator and the amounts allocated
                                                                                      decreased to 4.5 Billion in 2009, but were
                               Transport costs and transit time reduced (indicators   consistent with the agreed targets (see section 2.2,
Improve port efficiency and    monitored through the SAC III Project)                 credit covenants and 3.2).
economic competitiveness
                                                                                      Significant reduction in transport cost and transit
                                                                                      time. Reduction percentage of vehicle operating
                                                                                      costs on main roads affected by the rehabilitation
                                                                                      works by 59%.
Project Development :

1. Improve the efficiency of
   Douala's transport          ·   23 km of primary roads rehabilitated               ·        Total of 27.65km of road completed by
   system connecting the                                                              end 2008 (Achieved and exceeded with an addition
   port and the industrial                                                            4km being added as a result of cost savings)
   areas and their
   hinterlands                 ·   Travel time on the main roads reduced by 42%       ·          Decreased travel time by 87% (up to 65%
                                   after rehabilitation;                              less than targeted);


                                                                                      ·          Lower vehicle operating costs and
                               ·   Vehicle operating costs reduced by 42.3% after     renewal of vehicle fleet due to the improved road
2. Strengthen urban road           road rehabilitation;                               conditions were seen as a direct result of this
management and                                                                        rehabilitation by 59% (Total reduction in VOC of
maintenance                                                                           155 826 million CFAF).

                               ·   Institutional framework enhanced;                  ·         Institutional framework enhanced;


                                                                                           Strengthened personnel capacity - 84 staff
                                                                                              members;
                                                                                           UCD's infrastructure services are more
                                                                                              readily available and greatly improved;
                                                                                           Creation of sound strategies for urban
                                                                                              development, transport and road
                                                                                              maintenance.


                               ·        Maintenance financing secured (budgets and    ·          Initial allocations were met until end of
                               expenditures) ;                                        2007. In 2006, team and UCD revisited the target
                                                                                      and allocations decreased to 4.5 Billion in 2009,
                                                                                      but were consistent with credit covenants (see
                                                                                      section 2.2, credit covenants and 3.2). The new
                                                                                      targets are still covering all the maintenance needs
                                                                                      identified, which was the reason to measure this
                                                                                      indicator. This covers maintenance needs
                                                                                      identified. (Total cumulative amount of 28,065
                                                                                      million CFAF as against 36.620 million CFAF ­
                                                                                      76.64%­ was achieved).




                                                                   29
                           ·    Competent staff recruited in the road management      ·   Recruitment was completed of key personnel
                                unit (at least 3 highways engineers)                      (with at least 3 highways engineers) early in
                                                                                          the project e.g. civil engineer, procurement
                                                                                          specialist, accountants, and municipal
                                                                                          engineers.
                                                                                      ·   Make the UCD existing data-base on road
                                                                                          maintenance management operational.
Output from each           Output indicators:
component:
·   Urban Road             ·         23 km of main roads                              ·   27.65km of main roads rehabilitated
    rehabilitation
                           ·          Staffing: Finance, procurement and technical    ·   Recruitment was completed of key personnel
·   Technical Assistance   specialists                                                    early in the project (civil engineer,
                                                                                          procurement specialist, Finance, and
                                                                                          municipal engineers.

                           ·         Capacity building                                ·   Ongoing training continued to strengthen the
·         Urban Strategy                                                                  capacity of the Implementation Units 84 staff
and investment program                                                                    members received training out of which 63
                                                                                          were staff of the UCD;

                           ·          Studies carried out on institutional aspects,   ·   Twenty studies carried out on institutional
                           city development strategies, slum upgrading, provision         aspects including city development strategies
                           of basic services to the poor                                  for Douala;
                                                                                      ·   UCD's infrastructure services are more readily
                                                                                          available and greatly improved (operational
                                                                                          road maintenance database and M&E unit put
                                                                                          in place and improved coordination between
                                                                                          UCD, the various municipalities and the
                                                                                          population       in     terms     infrastructure
                                                                                          management);
                                                                                      ·   Creation of sound strategies for urban
                                                                                          development , transport and road maintenance;
                                                                                      ·   Slum upgrading provision of basic services to
                                                                                          the poor (A population of 10,000 inhabitants
                                                                                          in the slums areas benefited from: 500 meters
                                                                                          of paved roads, 1,080 meters of walkways,
                                                                                          1,350 meters of pipe borne water network
                                                                                          supplying 4 public taps, and 3,800 meters of
                                                                                          electricity cabling supplying 16 street lights).
                                                                                      ·   Construction of more than 800 m length of
                                                                                          sewage drain.




                                                                 30
Annex 3. Economic Analysis

1.       At appraisal a full economic evaluation was carried out on the road rehabilitation
component. An economic evaluation was not carried out for the other components, which are
Institutional Development and Support to Project Implementation Units (PIUs). At completion,
the government hired the same international consultant firm as at appraisal to reassess the
economic viability of the project. The methodology and the assumptions were thus the same
before and after the project, which allowed a strict comparison of the two economic analyses.

Methodology and Assumptions

2.      The economic analysis of the rehabilitation works was done using the World Bank
Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-IV). It was performed by assessing
the economic benefits generated by savings in time and vehicle operating costs in comparison
with the investment and maintenance costs. Benefits resulted from the reduction of accidents and
of air pollution are not taken into account. The economic analysis compares the without-project
alternative with the project alternative. The without project alternative is the reference situation,
in which the rehabilitation works were not carried out and the main roads were only supposed to
be maintained slightly. The project alternative corresponds to the achievement of the
rehabilitation works and to the execution of the future maintenance works. The simulation was
done over a 25-year period, starting in 2003, and with a discount rate of 12 percent.

3.     Traffic counts at completion were made in the same spots as at appraisal, during the dry
season for different vehicle classes. The traffic count campaigns were carried out from
November 25, 2009 to December 5, 2009. The traffic estimates for the future were issued from
the results of the PDU model. Table 3.1 shows the results of the traffic counts and of the
estimates.

4.      The vehicle operating costs include fuel and lubricant consumption, maintenance and
repairing costs, tires costs. These costs depend considerably on the road quality and shape. To
compute the vehicle operating costs, the International Roughness Index was determined. Vehicle
operating costs dropped on all roads after project as shown in Table 3.2 below.

5.      To determine the time benefits, mean speeds and travel times were measured on each
section. They depend on the road quality, the traffic volume and the circulation conditions. The
more degraded a road was, then the higher the traffic volume resulting in significantly lower the
mean speed. Besides, the value of time for people commuting for work was assumed to be equal
to their wages, contrary to people commuting for other reasons, for which the value time is equal
to 25 per cent of their wages. The mean speeds are shown in Table 3.3.




                                                 31
               Table 3.1: Traffic Before and After the Project, and Future Estimates

                                                            Bef                 2015     2025
                                                                      Afte                          Re
                                                          ore
                         Section                                  r project     Esti     Esti     al
                                                        project
                                                                   (2009)     mates    mates    growth
                                                        (2002)
           Carrefour Ndokoti - Avenue Japoma -              248        260      3440     5205
    1                                                                                              1%
        Boulevard de l'Unité - Place Leclerc                 15         26         6        9
           Carrefour Ndokoti - Douala/Yaoundé               670        123      3631     4970
    2                                                                                              9%
        Road                                                  6         48         1        6
           Boulevard Portuaire - Entrée sur le Wouri        129        218      4662     6664
    3                                                                                              8%
                                                             82         88         9        4
           Boulevard Bésséké - Pont Joss                    146        282      1537     2130       10
    4
                                                             43         18         3        3       %
           Pont Joss - Place Leclerc                        221        300      1537     2130
    5                                                                                              5%
                                                             03         98         3        3
            Rue de Japoma - Ndokoti - Logbaba -             836        135      3234     4336
    6                                                                                              7%
        Japoma                                                4         76         4        1
            Rue de Japoma between Yabassi camp              761        934      3719     4924
    7                                                                                              3%
        and Ndokoti                                           4          6         3        4
           East freeway PK10-PK14                           559        112      1140     2223       10
    8
                                                              2         10         3        0       %
           Nyala - Carrefour Yassa                          120        407                          50
    9                                                                           5434     7299
                                                              2          1                          %
    1      Carrefour Ndokoti - Carrefour CCC                173        176      3003     4229      0.2
0                                                            08         02         1        3       %
    TOTAL                                                   121        174      2644     3754
                                                                                                   6%
                                                            329        383        97       42


                   Table 3.2: Vehicle Operating Costs Reduction After the Project




                                                       32
                                                                                   Reduction of VOC
                                       Section
                                                                                    (CFAF million)
       Carrefour Ndokoti - Avenue Japoma - Boulevard de l'Unité - Place
                                                                                                25528
    Leclerc
       Carrefour Ndokoti - Douala/Yaoundé Road                                                  18151
       Boulevard Portuaire - Entrée sur le Wouri                                                 3869
       Boulevard Bésséké - Pont Joss                                                            12175
       Pont Joss - Place Leclerc                                                                 5169
       Rue de Japoma - Ndokoti - Logbaba - Japoma                                               39211
       Rue de Japoma between Yabassi camp and Ndokoti                                           19757
       East freeway PK10-PK14                                                                   13141
       Nyala - Carrefour Yassa                                                                  10375
       Carrefour Ndokoti - Carrefour CCC
                                                                                                 8451
0
    TOTAL                                                                                      155826


             Table 3.3: Mean Speeds Before and After Project (km per hour)

                                                            Before         After
                         Section                            project        project        Real growth
                                                            (2002)         (2009)
       Carrefour Ndokoti - Avenue            Japoma     -
                                                                      16             30          86%
    Boulevard de l'Unité - Place Leclerc
       Carrefour Ndokoti - Douala/Yaoundé Road                        16             45         180%
       Boulevard Portuaire - Entrée sur le Wouri                      26             39          51%
       Boulevard Bésséké - Pont Joss                                  37             51          37%
       Pont Joss - Place Leclerc                                      36             32         -10%
       Rue de Japoma - Ndokoti - Logbaba - Japoma                     11             35         224%
       Rue de Japoma between Yabassi camp and
                                                                      16             36         127%
    Ndokoti
       East freeway PK10-PK14                                         13             39         197%
       Nyala - Carrefour Yassa                                        15             64         329%
       Carrefour Ndokoti - Carrefour CCC
                                                                      16             35         117%
0
    MEAN VALUE                                                        21             40          90%




                                                   33
   Results
6.      Regarding the 23 km initially planned to be rehabilitated under the project, the cost
decreased by 15 percent from the baseline figure at appraisal. Furthermore, the travel time
decreased by 90 percent between 2002 and 2009, while the vehicle operating costs dropped by
59 percent, which corresponds to a travel time reduction of 33 percent and a vehicle operating
cost reduction of 29 percent more significant than expected. Overall, these effects amount to a
CFAF 141 billion net present value (NPV) and a 54 percent economic internal rate of return
(EIRR), in contrast with the CFAF 45.9 billion appraised NPV and the 32 percent appraised
EIRR. These unforeseen benefits can be explained by car renewals. The road upgrades
encourage the road users to buy new cars, as the vehicle operating costs decreased, resulting in a
stronger effect on the vehicle operating costs and on the travel time. Table 3.4 gives Net Present
Values and Internal Rates of Return at appraisal and at completion.

7.      It is worth noting that the NPV and the EIRR depend slightly on the traffic previsions.
Indeed, a 30 percent traffic decrease would modify the NPV by only 4 percent and the EIRR by
7 percent. This result means that vehicle operating cost decrease resulting from a more
significant traffic is compensated by the mean speed drop off and thus by the reduction of time
benefits. The road capacity is therefore reached over the 25 year period considered within the
economic analysis. On the contrary, the EIRR and the NPV depend on the discount rate, as a 20
percent discount rate would alter the NPV by 58 percent. Most of the benefits will thus be reaped
in the future, as Figure 3.6 illustrates. The results of the sensitivity analysis are shown in Table
3.5.
                     Table 3.4: Results of the Updated Economic Analysis

                                                         Updated NPV-             Appraised NPV-
      Updated IRR              Appraised IRR
                                                           12%                       12%

           54%                      32%                CFAF 141 billion          CFAF 45.9 billion


                                 Table 3.5: Sensibility Analysis
     Traffic
                       -30%             -20%             -10%              0%              +10%
  evolution
       NPV
   (CFAF                135              137              139              141              143
   billion)
       IRR            50.24%           51.53%           52.86%           54.22%           55.62%


    Discount
                        8%               10%              12%              15%              20%
    rate
     NPV                233              180              141               99               58
   (CFAF



                                                34
  billion)




Figure 3.1: Costs and Benefits over the 25-year Period between the Project Alternative and
                             the Without Project Alternative




                                           35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                             Title             Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
 C. Sanjivi Rajasingham    Sector Manager                    AFTTR
Pierre A. Pozzo di Borgo   Program Coordinator               AFTTR
Abdelgani Inal             Sr Transport. Spec.               AFTTR
Mohammed Feghoul           Sr Transport. Spec.               AFTTR
 Kingson Khan Apara        Sr Transport. Spec.               AFTTR
Hubert Nove-Josserand      Sr Transport. Spec.               AFTTR
Jean-Francois Marteau      Sr Transport. Spec.               AFTTR
 Peter Ngwa Taniform       Transport Specialist              AFTTR
 Amine Bennis              Intern                            AFTTR
 Jacques Espalieu          Consultant                        AFTTR
 Sekou Keita               E T Consultant                    AFTFM
 Faustin-Ange Koyasse      Sr Program Officer                AFTP3
 Antoine V. Lema           Senior Social Development Spec    AFTCS
 Emeran Serge M. Menang
                           Forestry Specialist               AFTEN
Evouna
 Kouami Hounsinou Messan   Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
Helene Simonne Ndjebet
                           Operations Analyst                AFCC1
Yaka
 Daniel J. Murphy          Senior Country Officer            AFCC1
 Irene Marguerite Nnomo
                           Team Assistant                    AFCC1
Ayinda-Mah
 Fridolin Ondobo           Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Sekou Keita                Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
 Salim Refas               Intern                            AFTTR
 Chantal Reliquet          Sr Urban Spec.                    AFTUW
 Wycliffe Okoth            Program Assistant                 AFTTR
Cedric Loic Allio          Intern                            AFTTR
Pierrette Manfoumbe        Program Assistant                 AFTTR

                                             36
Moussodou
Nadège L. Thadey          Office Manager                       AFTTR

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                        14                          80.33
  FY03                                         1                          17.18
                          Total:              15                          97.51
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                     0.00
  FY03                                        11                          63.49
  FY04                                        18                          88.58
  FY05                                        35                         137.59
  FY06                                        35                         123.61
  FY07                                        28                         106.74
  FY08                                        23                         131.76
  FY09                                        35                         170.23
 FY10                                         22                          64.35
                          Total:             207                         886.35




Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

(NA)




                                            37
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

(NA)




                                     38
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


1.       Le Projet d'Infrastructure de Douala (PID) avait pour objectif principal l'amélioration de
l'efficacité du système de transport de la ville de Douala, par la mise en oeuvre d'un programme
de réhabilitation d'urgence de réhabilitation des voiries principales dégradées. Par ailleurs au
plan institutionnel, le projet visait également le renforcement des capacités de la Communauté
Urbaine de Douala, en matière de gestion de l'entretien routier, de même que la préparation
d'une stratégie urbaine à l'échelle nationale. Le projet a été mis en vigueur le 21 mars 2003, sur
la base d'un cofinancement de l'IDA pour 45.200.000 DTS et le gouvernement camerounais
pour 15,60 millions US$.
2.       Le projet a connu une période d'instruction très courte (à peine six mois entre
l'identification et la signature), pour une structure comme la Communauté Urbaine de Douala,
dont c'était le premier projet avec la Banque Mondiale. Il a également été très contraignant au
démarrage, en ce sens qu'il avait onze conditions pour les négociations et onze conditions de
mise en vigueur. Tout ceci n'a pas favorisé une bonne préparation du projet par l'équipe,
occupée à remplir les conditions de mise en vigueur du crédit, d'où la faible consommation du
PPF 80.000 US$ sur 600.000 US$ alloués.
3.       A l'origine, le projet comportait une composante dédiée aux travaux de réhabilitation des
voiries principales constituée de deux Lots pour environ 23 km, une composante institutionnelle
bâtie autour l'assistance technique à la Communauté Urbaine de Douala dans les domaines de la
conception et la supervision des travaux de réhabilitation des voiries, le renforcement de ses
capacités managériales d'entretien de la voirie, les audits et la préparation d'une stratégie urbaine
nationale. Enfin une dernière composante relative à la facilitation des unités de projet.
4.       Le projet a été mis en oeuvre par quatre agences d'exécution, dont trois ministérielles. Au
départ, participaient à la mise en oeuvre du projet, outre la Communauté Urbaine de Douala, le
MINDUH responsable de la sous composante urbaine, la Caisse autonome d'Amortissement au
titre des décaissements, le MINPAT et le MINFI. La responsabilité fiduciaire a été cependant
gardée par la Cellule d'Exécution du projet, agence d'exécution pour la Communauté Urbaine de
Douala. Au-delà des objectifs initiaux, il a été rajouté après la revue à mi parcours du projet, une
sous composante relative à la préparation d'une stratégie routière nationale, dont le MINTP et le
MINT assuraient la responsabilité technique.
5.       L'organisation retenue pour le projet et notamment la responsabilité fiduciaire laissée à la
Cellule d'Exécution du projet a été mal acceptée par les unités des ministères, qui ne
comprenaient pas qu'elles puissent dépendre pour ces aspects d'une structure décentralisée. Cela
s'est traduit par de nombreux retards aussi bien dans la préparation des TDR pour les différentes
études, que lors des évaluations des propositions des consultants. Ceci justifie en partie les
résultats modérément satisfaisants d'une partie de la composante institutionnelle. Par ailleurs les
rotations fréquentes intervenues au niveau des points focaux des ministères sont venues aggraver
cet état.
6.       Au niveau de l'IDA, on peut relever également un important turnover des chargés de
projets (cinq en tout pendant la durée du projet). Fort heureusement, la stabilité du reste du staff
de l'IDA a permis d'atténuer l'impact qu'aurait pu avoir cette situation sur le projet. Les
missions de supervision de l'IDA ont été fréquentes, probablement en raison des difficultés liées
à l'exécution des travaux du Lot 1 de réhabilitation des voiries. Les échanges entre la Cellule



                                                 39
d'Exécution et le staff de l'IDA ont été empreints de cordialité, ce qui a naturellement favorisé
des prises de position consensuelles sur les problèmes posés au projet.
7.      Le Comité de Pilotage s'est régulièrement réuni, pour constater l'état d'avancement des
activités du projet. Malheureusement, celui-ci n'est jamais intervenu pour faciliter les relations
du projet avec le gouvernement, comme on peut le constater dans les difficultés connues par le
projet pour la mobilisation des fonds de contrepartie. Il en est également de même du volet
approvisionnement du compte d'entretien de la voirie, qui n'a pas semblé être sa préoccupation,
alors que celui-ci figurait bien dans ses missions. A titre d'exemple, alors que les ressources du
fonds routier étaient identifiées comme source de financement de l'entretien de la voirie de
Douala, celles-ci n'y ont pas contribué pendant toute la durée du projet.
8.      Les activités de passation des marchés ont été conduites de manière satisfaisante, malgré
les pesanteurs nées de la frustration des entités ministérielles. Elles ont porté sur un ensemble de
186 marchés tous types confondus représentant 42.195 millions de francs CFA, et répartis ainsi
qu'il suit :
                                         Pourcentage           Montant en          Pourcentage
   Type/catégorie de
                            Nombre par rapport au              millions de       par rapport au
    marché/contrat
                                              total               CFAF            montant total
Firmes de consultants          27            14,6%                 5.056              12,0%
Consultants Individuels        81            43,8%                 1.166               2,7%
Travaux                        25            13,5%                35.515              84,3%
Equipements                    21            11,3%                  233                0,6%
Fournitures                    31            16,8%                  164                0,4%
Total                          185         100,00%                42.134            100,00%

9.       Les décaissements ont connu un rythme acceptable au début du projet, mais les délais
sont devenus longs après la revue à mi parcours en raison du volume des transactions et surtout
des retards dans l'approvisionnement des fonds de contrepartie qui ont perturbé le processus. Les
demandes de paiements directs du fait de leur transit par la Mission Résidente de la Banque
Mondiale, sont restées tributaires des départs de la valise diplomatique, entrainant aussi quelques
retards. Cela devrait cependant être amélioré avec l'introduction de la signature électronique en
cours d'introduction dans le système de paiement. Le projet a du payer des intérêts moratoires de
plus de 25 millions CFAF.
10.      Les résultats obtenus en matière de réhabilitation des voiries principales sont plus que
satisfaisants, puisque c'est près de 27,65 km contre 23 km de voiries prévus qui sont concernés.
Cette composante a été financée à hauteur de 78,11% par les fonds de l'IDA, soit un montant de
53,02 millions US$ pour un total de 67,88 millions US$. Dans le cadre de travaux liés à la
préparation de la stratégie urbaine, des opérations pilote d'aménagement ont été financées à
hauteur de 4,38 millions US$, dont 3.50 millions US$ de l'IDA soit 79,91%. La composante
institutionnelle a été mise en oeuvre à hauteur de 13,28 millions US$, dont 9,21 millions US$ par
l'IDA, d'où une contribution de 69,35%. Enfin la composante facilitation des unités de projet a
coûté 2,70 millions US$, dont 0,99 millions US$ pour l'IDA, soit 36,67%
11.      Les résultats sur le plan institutionnel, peuvent être jugés satisfaisants au regard des
objectifs initiaux du projet et notamment le renforcement des capacités de la Communauté
Urbaine de Douala en matière d'entretien de son réseau routier d'une part et la préparation d'une
stratégie de développement urbain, qui quoique non adoptée de manière formelle, a connu ses
premières opérations pilote, puis la négociation et la mise en vigueur d'un nouveau projet avec


                                                40
l'IDA dans le secteur. La sous composante dédiée au réseau routier national a été l'objet
d'activités significatives, dans la préparation des réformes institutionnelles dans le secteur des
transports. Ces dernières serviront d'inputs dans le projet de facilitation du transport et du transit
en zone CEMAC. Cette composante aurait être bien menée si elle avait été cernée suffisamment
tôt, car elle n'a été clairement définie que quelques temps avant la revue à mi parcours.
12.      Des études stratégiques ont été conduites dans le cadre du projet et celles-ci dont les
résultats peuvent orienter durablement les interventions dans certains secteurs sont
essentiellement pour la ville de Douala le plan de transport et de déplacements urbains, la
stratégie de développement de la ville de Douala et son aire métropolitaine (cofinancé par Cities
Alliance et le C2D), au plan national la stratégie sectorielle des transports et la politique
nationale de l'habitat et au plan régional le régime de transit des marchandises en zone CEMAC.
13.      Au plan du renforcement des capacités, un accent particulier a été mis sur la formation, et
qui s'est traduit par l'inscription de cette activité dans l'amendement de l'Accord de crédit,
intervenu après la revue à mi parcours. A travers les différents plans de formation établis par les
agences d'exécution, des opportunités ont été offertes aux personnels de se former localement et
à l'étranger sur l'entretien de la voirie, la passation des marchés, l'aménagement urbain, la
planification et la programmation et enfin la gestion financière et comptable. C'est au total 84
cadres qui ont ainsi été formées dont 63 pour la seule Communauté Urbaine de Douala qui opté
pour des modules de formations locales de masse. Le coût total des différentes formations est de
0,58 millions US$.
14.      Par ailleurs la bonne exécution du projet a permis de confirmer la capacité de la
municipalité de Douala, à conduire un projet de développement. Cela peut servir d'expérience
pilote dans le contexte de décentralisation actuel et a valeur de test pour les collectivités
territoriales décentralisées dans le domaine de l'exercice de la maîtrise d'ouvrage publique. Ce
constat doit être certainement relativisé pour les autres collectivités territoriales décentralisées, à
l'exception de la Communauté urbaine de Yaoundé
15.      Le projet a enfin amené la Communauté Urbaine de Douala, à prendre conscience des
enjeux liés à l'impact environnemental et social des grands projets d'infrastructure, puisque ces
deux volets ont fait l'objet d'un traitement et d'un suivi particuliers. L'organigramme de la
Communauté Urbaine de Douala a été enrichi par la nomination désormais, d'un cadre
spécialement chargé de l'ingénierie sociale des projets. Les différentes indemnisations et autres
compensations au titre du projet s'élèvent à 7.678 millions XAF soit 1,55 millions US$ et ont été
intégralement versées. Elles ont affecté 108 ménages (642 personnes) et un industriel.
16.      Sur l'ensemble du réseau routier réhabilité, les résultats sont très satisfaisants au regard
des taux de réalisation respectifs par rapport aux valeurs cible de 120,21% de longueur de voirie
réhabilitée, 207,14% de réduction du temps de parcours, 139,48% de réduction du coût
d'exploitation des véhicules. En outre le trafic sur ces axes a augmenté de 43,80%. Ces gains ont
été répercutés sur les coûts du transport des personnes qui ont diminué de 30% à 50% sur les
axes du Lot 2 situés en partie Est de la ville de Douala.
17.      Par contre l'entretien de la voirie a connu des résultats modérément satisfaisants, compte
tenu d'une mobilisation des ressources de l'ordre de 76,64% (28.605 millions XAF entre 2002 et
2009) par rapport aux prévisions (36.620 millions XAF). Ces résultats restent cependant
acceptables en raison des faibles besoins en la matière en ce moment, les charges d'entretien sur
le réseau réhabilité étant ramenées à celles dites de routine, pour les premières années
d'exploitation après réhabilitation.



                                                  41
18.     Toutefois, il faut dès à présent finaliser la stratégie d'entretien de la voirie de Douala et
surtout réunir toutes les conditions de pérennité de son financement, les premières dépenses
significatives étant attendues à partir de 2012. Dans cette perspective, les conclusions et
recommandations de l'audit technique financier et comptable des prestations financées par le
compte d'entretien de la voirie de Douala seront très utiles.
19.     L'analyse économique des investissements routiers réalisés conduite à la fin du projet
confirme la viabilité du projet. A ce titre la VAN est estimée à 140,8 milliards XAF, contre 45,9
milliards XAF à l'évaluation du projet soit 306,75%, tandis que le TRI atteint 54,22% pour 32%
soit 169,44%.
20.     L'analyse de sensibilité par rapport à une variation du trafic entre -30% et +10% d'une
part, combinée à une variation du taux d'actualisation entre +8% et +20% d'autre part, permet
d'estimer une VAN comprise entre 54,2 milliards XAF et 235,8 milliards XAF et un TRI variant
entre 50,24% et 55,62%, valeurs qui restent supérieures à celles de l'évaluation du projet.
21.     La mise en oeuvre du Projet d'Infrastructure de Douala, a permis de mettre en évidence
des enseignements dont il faudra probablement tenir compte à l'avenir pour des projets
similaires. Les leçons à tirer de la mise en oeuvre du projet peuvent se résumer ainsi qu'il suit :
             · Période d'instruction du projet réduite et qui peut justifier une imprécision d'une
                 partie de la composante institutionnelle ;
             · Rotation excessive du personnel de supervision de la Banque Mondiale qui peut
                 affecter les résultats du projet ;
             · Organisation de la gestion du projet autour de la Communauté Urbaine de Douala
                 qui a été mal perçue au niveau des ministères, l'administration centrale trouvant
                 qu'elle se retrouve sous un démembrement de l'Etat ;
             · Vérification systématique des informations fournies par les PME dans leurs
                 offres, dont l'absence a amené à attribuer des marchés à des entreprises qui
                 avaient présenté de fausses références pour la phase 1 des travaux d'amélioration
                 de l'accès aux services de base dans les quartiers ;
             · Engagement des associations de quartiers non documentés, d'où évidence pour les
                 bénéficiaires à n'avoir aucun devoir, comme on peut le vérifier dans l'attitude des
                 comités de développement des quartiers, qui ne veulent pas prendre en charge
                 l'exploitation des ouvrages réalisés ;
             · Absence de contrôle interne formalisé, qui n'a pas permis d'optimiser l'utilisation
                 des différents manuels de procédures, ce qui s'est traduit par des lacunes en
                 matière de gestion des risques et nombreux retards dans la production de
                 l'information financière ;
             · Absence de vulgarisation de la technique comptable à l'ensemble des principaux
                 responsables au début du projet, comme cela a été le cas pour la passation des
                 marchés, d'où une méconnaissance totale des exigences comptables par le
                 coordonnateur, pourtant désigné comme premier comptable du projet ;
             · Absence d'une information structurée sur le projet, qui devrait permettre une
                 meilleure acceptation par les bénéficiaires des réalisations de celui-ci, en
                 améliorant la perception de la gouvernance ;
             · Meilleure circulation des informations entre les bailleurs de fonds du secteur, qui
                 aurait permis d'avoir des informations fiables sur le chantier de l'entreprise
                 ETEP au Mali, où elle éprouvait déjà à l'époque des difficultés similaires, dans le



                                                 42
même schéma que celui adopté pour le projet (sous traitance locale à 100% de
son marché).




                             43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

(NA)




                                      44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


List of Supporting Document are:

1. Project Appraisal Document

2. Pre and Post project Economic Analysis

3. Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP)

4. Aide memoires and Implementation Status Reports

5. Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 1996

6. 2000 - Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper

7. Government Policy Paper of February, 2002.

8. Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of 2010

9.   Urban Community of Douala Road Maintenance audit report by 2AC, November 2009

10. Final Draft of Borrower's Completion Report, by the Project Implementation Unit, May 2010




                                             45
             MALI                                 10°                                            20°                                                  12°                                                                        14°                                                            16°

                                     NIGER                                                                                          This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                    the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Lake           Chad
                                                                                                                                    World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                    colors, denominations and
                                                                                      CHAD                                          any other information shown
                                                                                                                 SUDAN              on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                    the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                    Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                    legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                    or any endorsement or
            BENIN                                                                                                                   acceptance of such
            10°                                                                                                      10°            boundaries.
                         Nig        NIGERIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kousséri
                               er
                                                    e                                                                           12°                  0               40         80         120              160 Kilometers                                                                                         12°
                                                 nu
                                            Be


                                                                                 CENTRAL AFRICAN REP.
                                                                                                                                                     0          20        40          60     80             100 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C H A D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cha
                                                  CAMEROON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ri
                 Gulf of Guinea                                Yaounde
                                                                                                                  U e le
                       EQUATORIAL
                                                                                                      C on go
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EXTREME
                         GUINEA                                                                                                                                                                                              Mora
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NORD
                   SÃO TOMÉ
                  AND PRÍNCIPE                                                                       DEM. REP.
            0°                                                           CONGO                         OF              0°                                                                                                  Mokolo
                                                        GABON                                        CONGO                                                                                                                                         Bogo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Maroua

                                                  10°                                            20°                                                                                                                                                               Yagoua

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Kaélé
                                                                         10°
            10°                                                                                                                                                                                                         Guider                                                                                     10°
                                                                   CAMEROON
                                        DOUALA INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                                                                                          M ay o Ke bi                                                 La
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         go
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ne

                                              PROJECT                                                                                                                           oué
                                                                                                                                                                          Ben              Garoua


                                                                        URBAN COMMUNITY OF DOUALA

                                                                        SELECTED TOWNS                                                                                                                           NORD
                                                                        DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Guibjiba
                                                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Poli                                Tcholliré
                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                        UNPAVED ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                            Fa
                                                                                                                                                                                                 ro
            8°                                                          PAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8°

                                                                        RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                        RIVERS                                                                                                                                    Mounguel                             Vi n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  re
                                                                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              M
                                                                                                                                                                     Tignére                                       Ngaoundere
                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



                                                                                                                                                                                     ADAMAOUA
                      NIGERIA                                                                                                               Banyo

                                                                                                     Nkambe                                                                                                                                    Meiganga
                                                                                                                                                                 Malarba
                                                                               NORD -
                                                                                                                                                                      Tibati
                                                                               Wumo
                                                                                                                                                                                            Lake
                                                                                 OUEST                                                        M   bam                                      Assom
                                                                                                     Kumbo
            6°                                             Nbengwi                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6°
                                                                                 Bamenda          Lake
                                                  Mamfe                                          Bambili                                                                                                                         Garoua Boulai
                                                                                                                Foumban
                                                                                                                                                                                             Dje
                                                                                                                                                                                                      rem
                                                                Dschang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ndokayo
                                                         Mu




                                                                                          Bafoussam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lom
                                        Nguti
                                                                                          OUEST                                                                                                                                                                                 CENTRAL
                                                          ngo




                                                                        Bafang                 Bangangté
                                    SUD -               Supé                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AFRICAN
                                Mundemba
                                                                          Nkongsamba                                                               CENTRE
                                    OUEST                                                                                                                                                                   Bélabo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Kadei




                                                                                                                            Bafia
                                       Kumba
                                                                                                                                                                       Nanga                                               Bertoua
                                                                          Yabassi                                                         Ntuj                         Eboko                                                                     Batouri
                                                                  LITTORAL                                        Monatélé                                                                                              Doume
                                      Buea
                        Idenao                                   Douala
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Abong Mbang                                          Ndelélé                                                  4°
            4°
                                    Limbe                                                                                               Yaounde                                                                                   EST
                                                                               Edéa
                                                                                                                                                                     Akonolinga

                                                                                    Nyo                                              Mbalmayo                                                                                                          Yokadouma
                                                                                          ng


                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Lomié
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  um




                 Gulf of Guinea                                                                                                     Sangmélima                                                                             Dja
                                                                Kribi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ba




                                                                                                        Ebolowa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sangha




                                                                                                                               SUD
                        EQUATORIAL                                                         Nt
                                                                                                em

                          GUINEA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Muloundou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IBRD 32043




            2°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ng
                                                                                                                                                   GABON
JUNE 2002




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ok
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o

                                                                         10°                                                                          12°                                                                        14°                   C O N G O
