Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 75531-ML
PROJECT PAPER
ON A
PROPOSED ADDITIONAL CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.0 MILLION
(US$ 20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR THE
AGRICULTURE COMPETITIVENESS AND DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
March 4, 2013
Agricultural and Rural Development
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department AFCW3
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2013)
Currency Unit = CFAF
CFAF 491 = US$1
US$1 = SDR 0.6488
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACDP       Agriculture Competitiveness and Diversification Project
AGETIPE Agence d'Ex6cution des Travaux d'Int6ret Public pour l'Emploi / Agency for Execution of
Public Works for Employment Generation
AGETIER Agence d'Ex6cution des Travaux d'Infrastructures et d'Equipements Ruraux / Agency for
Execution of Public Works for Rural Infrastructure and Equipment
AF         Additional Financing
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CRAP Comit6 R6gional d'Approbation des Sous-Projets / Regional Committees for Approval of
Sub-Projects
CFAF       CFA Franc
DNACPN     Direction Nationale de l'Assainissement du Contr6le des Pollutions et des Nuisances -
National Directorate of Sanitation, and Pollution and Nuisance Control
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
ESIA       Environmental and Social Impact Assessment
ESMF       Environmental and Social Management Framework
FY         Fiscal Year
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GoM        Government of Mali
GAM        Gross Additional Margin
IDA        International Development Association
IPO        Inter-Professional Organization
IRR        Internal Rate of Return
ISR        Implementation Status Report
MEA Minist&re de l'Environnement et de l'Assainissement / Ministry ofEnvironment and
Sanitation
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NPV        Net Present Value
II


﻿OP/BP      Operational Policy / Bank Policy
PAPAM      Project d'Appui d la Productivit6 Agricole au Mali / Mali Fostering Agriculture
Productivity Project
PLAZA      Plateforme Logistique Agricole de la Zone A6roportuaire / Airport Export Agricultural
Logistical Platform
PP         Project Paper
PDO        Project Development Objective
PCU        Project Coordination Unit
PRSC       Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PPP        Private-Public Partnership
SME        Small and Medium Enterprise
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
V/C        Value Chain
Vice President:   Makhtar Diop
Country Director:   Ousmane Diagana
Sector Manager:    Martien Van Nieuwkoop
Task Team Leader:    Y6yand6 Kass6 Sangho
III


﻿MALI
ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR AGRICULTURE COMPETITIVENESS AND
DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
Project Paper
CONTENTS
1. Introduction   .....................................................................1
II. Background And Rationale For Additional Financing................1...........       .............1
2.1. Country context.  .............................................................. 1
2.2. Strategic alignment  .............................................................2
2.3. Objective, design and scope of the original project ..................2........   ............2
2.4. Project implementation performance to date....................3.........          ...........3
2.5. Rationale for the Additional Financing                            ..............5............... .................5
Ill. Proposed Changes..  ..............................................................5
IV. Appraisal Summary   ...............................................................10
Annexes:
Annex 1 Revised Results Framework and Monitoring Indicators     ........................     .........16
Annex 2. Revised Estimate of Project Costs................................................22
Annex 3 Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF)....................................23
Annex 4. Detailed Description of Modified or New Project Activities..............................26
Annex 5 Economic and Financial Analysis................................................32
Annex 6. Financial Management Action Plan ...............................................38
Annex 7. Procurement Arrangements .................................................... 39
Tables:
Tab e 1: Changes in project outcome and results indicators                      .................6........ ...........6
Table 2: Changes in project costs by components..................8...........          ..............8
Table 3: Sub-Project Typology (number of sub-projects)  ............................................9
Iv


﻿MALI
ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR AGRICULTURE COMPETITIVESS AND
DIVERSIFICATION PROJECT
ADDITIONAL FINANCING DATA SHEET
Basic Information - Additional Financing (AF)
Country Director: Ousmane Diagana         Sector: Agricultural marketing and trade (50%);
Sector Manager: Martien Van Nieuwkoop     Crop production (40%); General agriculture,
Team Leader: Y6yand6 Kass6 Sangho         fishing and forestry sector (10%);
Project ID: P130873                       Theme: 100% Agribusiness
Expected Effectiveness Date: 06/10/2013
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment
Loan (SIL)
Additional Financing Type: Scale-Up
Basic Information - Original Project
Project ID: P081704                       Environmental category: B - Partial
Assessment
Project Name: Agriculture Competitiveness  Expected Closing Date: 06/30/2013
and Diversification Project              Joint IFC:
Lending Instrument: SIL                   Joint Level:
[ ] Loan           [X ] Credit        [ ] Grant         [ ] Guarantee       [ ]
Other:
Proposed terms: Standard
AF Financing Plan (US $m)
Source                             Total Amount (US $m)
Total Project Cost                                            24.4
Co-financing
Borrower                                                       4.4
Total Bank Financing                                          20.0
IBRD
IDA:                                                          20.0
New
Recommitted
V


﻿Client Information
Recipient: Government of Mali
Responsible Agency: Ministry of Agriculture
Contact Person: Dr. Gagny Timbo
Coordinateur du Programme de Comp6titivit6 et
Diversification Agricoles (PCDA)
Tel: (223)20 22 11 25
Fax:(223)20 22 11 26
BP:228 BKO 03
Bamako-Mali
E-mail: gtimbo@pcda-mali.org
AF Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US $m)
FY                           FY14      FY15
Annual                         9        11
Cumulative                     9        20
Project Development Objective and Description
3.    Original project development objective: The Project Development Objective (PDO) is
to foster improvements in the performance of value chains for a range of agricultural and livestock
products for which Mali has strong comparative advantage.
Revised project development objective: The PDO remains unchanged with the Additional
Financing.
N.B.: The PDO for the Additional Financing (AF) is the same as the original PDO. However, in
the original Credit Development Agreement, it was presented differently than in the corresponding
original PAD. This will be corrected in the Financing Agreement for the AF which will include
the PDO with the exact same wording as in the original PAD and the present Project Paper (PP).
Project description:
Component 1: Demonstration and dissemination of irrigation, post-harvest and
value-adding technologies
Component 2: Improvement of agricultural value chains
Component 3: Access to financing
Component 4: Market-oriented infrastructure
Component 5: Project management and Monitoring & Evaluation
VI


﻿Safeguard and Exception to Policies
Safeguard policies triggered:
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                               [X]Yes [ ] No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                        [ ]Yes [X]No
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                [ ]Yes [X]No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                           [X]Yes [ ] No
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11)                            [ ]Yes [X]No
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                     [ ]Yes [X]No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                               [ X] Yes [ ] No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                         [ ]Yes [ X ] No
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)                    [ ]Yes [ X ] No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                             [ ]Yes [X]No
Is approval of any policy waiver sought from the Board (or MD if    [ ]Yes [X ] No
RETF operation is RVP approved)?
Has this been endorsed by Bank Management? (Only applies to Board    [ ]Yes [ ] No
approved operations)                                                [ ]Yes [X]No
Does the project require any exception to Bank policy?                 ]Yes     No
Has this been approved by Bank Management?
Conditions and Legal Covenants
Financing Agreement       Description of Condition/Covenant        Date Due
Reference
Schedule 2, Section I.A.2     Recruitment by Recipient of       One month after project
qualified internal auditor and    effectiveness.
procurement specialist acceptable
to the Association.
Schedule 2, Section I.A.3      Setting -up of field-based teams  One month after project
each composed, inter alia, by a   effectiveness
regional coordinator, Sub-Projects
specialist, and one decentralized
PCU accountant for all field-based
teams.
Schedule 2, Section IV.B. 1 (b)  No disbursements under Category (2)  Disbursement condition
until Management Contracts
satisfactory to the Association have
been concluded between the Recipient
and "AGETIPE", and between the
Recipient and "AGETIER"
respectively
Schedule 2, Section IV.B. 1 (c)  No disbursements under Category  Disbursement condition
(3) subject to each Sub-Project
meeting the eligibility criteria as
described in the PIM
VII


﻿
﻿I. INTRODUCTION
1.    This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide Additional
Financing (AF) to the Government of the Republic of Mali (GoM) in the amount of US$20
million for the Agriculture Competitiveness and Diversification Project (ACDP).
2.    The proposed Additional Financing (AF) will help finance the costs associated with the
scaling up of ACDP activities, with a view to securing a higher level of Development Objective
(DO) achievements over an additional two-year project implementation period. The AF will
enhance the project impact by expanding its coverage to a larger group of emerging market-
oriented to very small enterprises and SMEs in project-targeted agriculture and livestock Value
Chains (V/Cs). Project impact will also be enhanced by laying the groundwork for a sound exit
strategy and a strong sustainability
3.    The AF focus will be on: (i) the Innovation and Investment Fund (IIF), a Recipient-
operated financial credit line which, by extending additional matching grants for investment sub-
projects, will serve to disseminate innovations already demonstrated by the Project; (ii)
continued building and strengthening of V/C Inter-Professional Organizations (IPOs); (iii)
facilitation of access to funding by the very small enterprises and SMEs supported by the
Project; and (iv) completion and expansion of the commercial infrastructure program.
ii. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING
(IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION)
2.1. Country context
4.    Mali is a large (1,241,238 square km) landlocked country with a rapidly growing
population of about 14.5 million unevenly distributed due to the fact that about 60 percent of its
surface area is desert. Mali's per capita Gross National Income (GNI) was about US$580 in
2009.  The country was ranked 160 out of 169 countries by the 2010 United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) Human Development Index.
5.    Mali's recent macroeconomic performance is best described by distinguishing two
reporting periods:
a) Pre-crisis period. In the years prior to the crop season 2011/2012 and the March 2012
military coup, Mali displayed good macro-economic performance and resilience to
shocks, despite external negative factors such as poor rains, food and oil price increases, a
decrease in the price of cotton, as well as the overall adverse impact of the world
economic slowdown. This translated into an average Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
growth rate of about 4.6 percent for the 2004-2008 period. In 2009, as a result of the
global recession of 2008-2009, GDP growth rate fell somewhat to about 4.5 percent.
However, it recovered and accelerated thereafter to reach an estimated 5.8 percent in
2010.
b) Post-crisis period.  Recently, Mali's economy has been severely affected by the
combined impact of two major events: (i) very poor harvests in 2011-12 and (ii) the
1


﻿March 22, 2012 military coup and its aftermath. The latter event resulted in the
temporary suspension of development assistance, a sharp decrease in tourism receipts and
drop in foreign direct investments. Following a sluggish 2.7 percent growth in 2011, real
GDP growth is estimated to have shrunk by 1.5 percent in 2012. The poor harvests and
trade disruptions pushed average inflation to an estimated 5.9 percent in 2012. It is
forecasted to be 3.9% in 2013. In this context, the Government has managed its budget
prudently, offsetting the loss of revenues by cutting expenditures (especially public
investment) and reducing subsidies on petroleum products and cooking gas. As a result,
the budget deficit is estimated at only about one percent of GDP in 2012. Despite these
efforts, however, with a budget increase of 6.9% compared to the 2012 amended budget,
the deficit is expected to rise to about CFAF 50 billion in 2013. Anticipated good
harvests and positive terms of trade (gold vs. oil) are expected to help real GDP growth to
rebound to 4.7% in 2013. However, this will be insufficient to restore budgetary balance,
if development aid is not restored to pre-crisis level.
2.2. Strategic alignment
6.     The proposed Additional Financing (AF) operation is fully consistent with the goals set
out in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, 2008), the Government's Agriculture
Orientation Law (LOA, 2005) and the current National Investment Program in agriculture.
Additional Financing activities are also closely aligned with the new government horticulture
strategy. This strategy is currently in draft. It will be finalized during the AF period and serve as
blueprint for the expansion of the fresh fruit and vegetable V/Cs targeted under the Project.
7.     The AF is aligned with the Bank's current re-engagement in Mali.     Following a
suspension of operations between March and October 2012 under OP7.30, the Bank resumed
disbursements and preparation of new operations on a case by case basis, with prior approval by
the Africa Vice President. In this context, an Interim Strategy Note outlining the specific
program for FY14 and FY15 is under preparation.
2.3. Objective, design and scope of the original project
8.     The original Project was approved by the Board on July 5, 2005. The corresponding IDA
Credit of US$46.4 million became effective on April 4, 2006. At Mid-Term Review (May-June
2009), project activities were restructured, including revision of the results framework and
reallocation of Credit proceeds. Also, the Credit closing date was extended by six months (to
December 31, 2012) to allow sufficient time to implement second phase activities. By the time
of the coup, the Government of Mali (GoM) and the Bank had agreed on the principle of an
additional financing of US$20 million to fund a 2-year project extension, justified by the strong
project operational and fiduciary results. Following the Bank's re-engagement in October 2012,
a second project restructuring was approved. It comprised a new reallocation of Credit proceeds,
a six-month extension of the closing date up to June 30, 2013 and specific activities aimed at
completing the preparation of the AF.
9.      The Project Development Objective (PDO) is to foster improvements in the
performance of value chains for a range of agricultural and livestock products for which Mali has
strong comparative advantage.    The proposed investment is expected to reinforce the
competitiveness of both traditional (cotton, rice) and non-traditional (fruit, horticulture products,
oil seeds, Arabic gum, cashews, etc.) agricultural crops, through targeted investment to remove
2


﻿critical constraints, improve productivity and efficiency and build organizational and institutional
capacities, both private and public, along the value chains. In the long run, the Project is
expected to contribute to increasing and diversifying rural household incomes and economic
opportunities. It supports the development of a vibrant and diversified commercial agriculture as
a means to move away from subsistence agriculture, often synonymous of poverty for a majority
of rural households.
10.   The original Project comprises the following five components:
a)  Component 1: Demonstration and dissemination of irrigation, post-harvest and
value-adding technologies (US$10.35     million).  This component supports the
demonstration and dissemination by private sector providers of low-cost, simple and
adapted techniques and technologies to improve the production, processing and
marketing of selected high value agricultural products;
b) Component 2: Improvement of agricultural value chains (US$7.07 million). This
component aims at improving the organization and performances of targeted agricultural
Value Chains (V/Cs), reinforcing private sector capacities to respond to market
opportunities and improve the competitiveness of agricultural products. This is expected
to enable the country to diversify its export base and provide farmers with opportunities
to generate new sources of income, thus reducing their exposure to risks;
c)  Component 3: Access to financing (US$2.93 million).      This component aims at
facilitating access to capital and financial services for private operators involved in the
targeted agricultural value chains, thereby strengthening the current agriculture credit
market in Mali. It entails, in particular, helping financial intermediaries (commercial
banks, micro-finance institutions, investment funds) build their capacities to increase their
outreach and ability to respond to the needs of actors along the value chain (producers,
traders, processors, transporters, etc.), by offering a wider range of financial services;
d) Component 4: Market-oriented infrastructure (US$21.49 million). This component
provides resources to improve basic commercial and communication infrastructure, in
order to strengthen linkages to markets, reduce transaction costs and improve
competitiveness. It funds the construction of export facilities, collection centers, storage
and processing facilities in Project-targeted V/Cs. Under this component, an emergency
feeder road rehabilitation program was successfully completed in cotton producing areas.
This program has been instrumental to facilitate post-harvest and marketing operations;
and;
e)  Component 5: Project management and Monitoring &            Evaluation (US$5.61
million). This component provides the resources necessary to ensure adequate project
management, e.g., overall coordination of project activities, financial management and
procurement of goods and services, as well as Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) of
project implementation and communications.
2.4. Project implementation performance to date
11.   Results. The ACDP has performed well to date, delivering positively on its development
objective and intermediary results, as evidenced by the updated results framework (Annex 1).
3


﻿As of November 2012 (date of the last supervision mission), direct project beneficiaries were
estimated to number about 7,000, and the increase of marketed production in the primary
targeted value chains, the other PDO indicator, was as follows: (i) mangoes: 73,000 metric tons
or 104 percent of target, (ii) shallots/onions: 601,000 metrics tons or 93 percent of target, and
(iii) potatoes: 205,000 metric tons or 95 percent of target.
12.   The following elements, backed by the Project's results indicators, further testify to the
Project's positive results: (i) the Project has appropriately focused on a select agricultural Value
Chains (V/Cs) with high development potential and activities in these V/Cs have expanded and
become more market driven, thereby stimulating employment and the country's economic
growth; (ii) the Project has fostered the uptake of important new technologies that are proving
financially viable, whilst mitigating the risks for producers and small businesses; and (iii)
following the Project's business model, a cluster of dynamic private promoters is emerging,
stakeholders in the targeted Inter-Professional Organizations (IPOs) are getting together as
effective partners, additional investment funds are being mobilized from the private and banking
sectors, and project participants are increasingly partnering with commercial farming and
agribusiness sectors.
13.   Implementation. The Project has been regularly supervised at least twice a year since
effectiveness with task management located in the Country Office. The ISRs have consistently
rated the Implementation Progress (IP) and the likelihood of Development Objective (DO)
achievement as 'satisfactory'. The last Implementation Status Report (ISR #17, January 2013)
confirms that the overall project impact has been consistent with the expectations set out in the
PAD. Overall disbursements have been satisfactorily in spite of the March 2012 coup and the
subsequent suspension of IDA disbursements from March through October 2012 that caused
project implementation to slow down somewhat from its very satisfactory pace prior to the coup.
As of February 20, 2013, SDR 27.3 million had been disbursed out of the total Credit amount of
SDR 30.70 million (88.8 percent). The Project has had an excellent track record for financial
management, which has been consistently rated as 'satisfactory'. All audits reports are current
and there are no pending auditing accountability issues to be resolved.   The rating for
procurement has been 'moderately satisfactory'. The major reason for this rating is that the
Project had a slow disbursement flag due to slow implementation at the beginning. Actions have
been agreed during the last implementation support mission to reinforce procurement
performance.
14.    Safeguards. The project safeguard Category is B, since there are no expected significant
and/or irreversible adverse environmental and social issues, particularly as regards to sub-project
and commercial infrastructure investments. Overall safeguard compliance was rated 'moderately
satisfactory' at the last implementation support mission. It was confirmed that sub-project
preparation had included a proper analysis of the potential adverse impacts on the environment
and the preparation of sub-project mitigation action plans. However, implementation of these
plans was incomplete, due mostly to a lack of expertise on the part of promoters.
Recommendations were made to ensure strict compliance of investment implementation with the
proposed mitigation measures. The PCU has updated the project Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) to reflect the recommended changes.
4


﻿2.5. Rationale for the Additional Financing
15.   The AF will consolidate and expand project activities showing strong results with a view
to securing a higher level of DO achievement over an additional two-year project
implementation period. The results framework has been updated accordingly (see Annex 1). It
captures the new level of outcomes and outputs expected during the AF period.
16.   Aligned with the above, the AF will focus on : (i) consolidation and expansion of the
portfolio of sub-projects funded under the Innovation and Investment Fund (IIF) through the
provision of matching grants, to reduce the risk and provide incentive for very small enterprises
and SMEs to embark on investment activities; (ii) strengthening of V/C effectiveness to remedy
the project-targeted V/Cs' weak institutional capacity to serve the needs of participant economic
agents regarding preparation of investment projects, market investigation, contract negotiation,
and resolution of technical and marketing issues; (iii) continued facilitation of access to
commercial funding by V/C actors to relieve the severe lack of investment funding, particularly
through the project Guaranty Fund; (iv) development of commercial infrastructure facilities since
access to such facilities is critically important for Malian producers, particularly for small
producers, so that they can adhere to the same quality standards as foreign competitors. The AF
will develop private-based management systems for these facilities; and (v) consolidation of the
project institutional and operational framework, and transfer of project competencies to
permanent entities to ensure sustainability of project activities.
III. PROPOSED CHANGES
17.   Project Development Objective (PDO). The PDO under the AF extension phase
remains unchanged. Building on the achievements and lessons of the first phase, the AF
continues to emphasize private sector development in the V/Cs originally targeted. It provides
additional sub-project investment financing (including the scaling up of first phase sub-projects)
under the Innovation and Investment Fund (IIF), as well as technical support for continued
facilitation of access to commercial funding. It also finances the completion of the commercial
infrastructure program for the benefit of private operators. This is to be contrasted with the focus
of the initial phase that centered largely on technology demonstration, rural access roads and
technical assistance for the development of operational tools and training. Under the AF,
capacity building and institutional development remain key cross-cutting activities given the
continued general weakness of the country's private expertise and institutional capability. This
includes the training of individuals V/Cs actors, service providers and government staff in charge
of interface with private sector operators. It also includes support for the management of project-
constructed commercial infrastructure under Private-Public Partnership (PPP) arrangements.
The AF pays particular attention to the sustainability of project activities through the gradual
transfer of competencies to private sector organizations, particularly V/C organizations, and
permanent public entities.
18.   Project results indicators. The summary results indicators (original and revised targets)
are presented in Table 1 below. The full description of the results framework is in Annex 1.
Project implementation is expected to result in a major increase in the marketed production of
targeted V/Cs (70 percent for mangoes, 60 percent for shallots/onions, and over 50 percent for
potatoes). Under Component 1, in line with the thrust on private sector development, 200
5


﻿additional sub-projects (vs. 350 original ones) are expected to be implemented, 40 percent of
them benefiting women. These sub-projects are larger in size than the first phase sub-projects.
Under Component 2 regarding the strengthening of V/Cs' performance, two additional sizable
investment projects are expected to be implemented, and 15 additional market information
bulletins are to be prepared and disseminated to V/C operators. Under Component 3 (regarding
'access to funding'), results are predicated on a major increase in the funding of private
promoters by commercial banks, and expanded use of the project Guarantee Fund. The
indicators are CFAF 880 million worth of guarantees granted to investors and a 95 percent
recovery rate for guaranteed loans. Under Component 4, 12 additional commercial facilities are
planned to be constructed vs. 6 already completed, bringing the revised target to 18. By project
end, all these facilities are expected to have adequate private sector delegated management plans.
Under Component 5, both the national steering committee and the four regional ones are
expected to meet regularly once a year during the AF period as was done during the initial phase.
Table 1: Changes in project outcome and results indicators
Indio   [t Original          AF       Revised
targets    targets   targets
OUTCOME INDICATORS
*  Beneficiaries                                  Number            7,000     2,000      9,000
*  Volume of production marketed by  Mangoes                       70,000    49,000    119,000
Shallots      Metric tons     645,000    380,000   1,025,000
Potatoes                      215,000    115,000    330,000
*  Value of production marketed by  Mangoes                        35,000    21,000     56,000
Shallots      CFAF million     87,000     35,000    122,000
Potatoes                       38,000     14,500     52,500
RESULTS INDICATORS
Component 1: Demonstration and dissemination of irri ation, post-harvest and value-adding technologies
*  Sub-projects (micro-enterprises and SMEs)      Number             350        200        550
*  Women benefitting from sub-projects            %              50/32**         40         35
Component 2: Improvement of agricultural value chains
*  Sizeable private investment projects in project  Number          4/2**         2          4
targeted V/Cs
*  Market information bulletins disseminated      Number         20/24**         15         39
Component 3: Access to financing
*  Amount of guarantees granted                   CFAF million  880/200**       680        880
*  Recovery rate of guaranteed credits            %                   90         95         94
Component 4: Market-oriented infrastructure
*  Commercial infrastructures implemented         Number            8/8**        10         18
*  Delegated management contracts                 Number            8/1**         9         10
Component 5: Project management and M&E
*  National and regional steering committees meetings  Number         30         10         40
*N.B: The results considered are only those pertinent to AF activities **Original target/results expected by June
2013
19.    Project design. The AF funds selected activities of the original five project components,
showing strong results, with a four-pronged focus: (i) private investment through the funding of
matching grants under Innovation and Investment Fund (IIF): 200 additional sub-projects are
planned with corresponding IIF funding more than twice the original funding; (ii) institutional
strengthening of Inter-Professional Organizations (IPOs) of project-targeted V/Cs, so that they
6


﻿provide an efficient management of V/Cs, under sound governance arrangements and adequate
representation of stakeholders; (iii) access to funding and markets: the emphasis here is on
training producers, and assisting them to partner with commercial banks and market
counterparts, so that they can obtain commercial loans in complement to the IIF funding and
access potential markets, hereby paving the way for the sustainability of their investments; the
greater use of the project Guarantee Fund is expected to facilitate access to funding by
promoters, by reducing the risks for commercial banks to lend; and (iv) completion and
extension of the commercial infrastructure program with special attention given to establishing
adequate management contracts for these facilities under Private Public Partnership (PPP)
agreements. The AF does not finance activities that have been successfully completed during the
initial period, including those related to technology demonstration, construction of basic
infrastructure (e.g., rural roads and the Bamako export logistics platform - PLAZA),
development of technical and economic standards, kits and guides for the new technologies
sponsored by the Project.
20.    Institutional arrangements. Implementation arrangements will remain unchanged
during the AF phase. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) continues to oversee and coordinate
project implementation, supported by competitively-recruited field-based international Technical
Assistance (TA) teams. The TA teams are expected to gradually transfer competencies to private
sector organizations, particularly V/C organizations and government technical services that will
eventually take over project activities. The PCU will prepare an action plan for the transfer of
competencies to be included in the TA teams' contracts. The IIF operational mode also remains
unchanged, with continued reliance on a demand-driven approach based on periodic open calls
for sub-project proposals. To enhance the IIF effectiveness, a more decentralized sub-project
approval and oversight process will be introduced at regional level soon after effectiveness,
vested directly with the field-based TA team (Regional Coordinator, sub-projects specialist, and
decentralized PCU accountant). The field-based disbursement process is expected to speed up
sub-project implementation.
21.    Procurement arrangements. The PCU will continue to manage procurement activities
according to the approved annual procurement plan. It will directly procure all goods and
services except for construction activities. The PCU procurement activities will cover the
renewal of the international technical assistance contracts and the contracting for provision of
other consultant services, goods and equipment for all components except Component 4.
Construction activities for the completion and extension of the commercial infrastructure under
Component 4 will be delegated to a third entity. During the first phase, these activities were
delegated to AGETIER. However, this agency did not perform well. Therefore, a decision has
been taken to limit its responsibilities under the AF to the completion of ongoing contracts
(upgrade of the centralization markets for potatoes and shallots, respectively at Sikasso and
Niono, and construction of a cold storage at Sikasso). For all the new infrastructure facilities, the
Project will contract with another delegated construction manager (AGETIPE). This agency has
adequate capacity for the job, but its workload is substantial which may be a cause for concern.
Therefore, the PCU will have to ensure that AGETIPE gives priority to AF activities. The PCU
is currently recruiting a new procurement specialist to replace its former specialist who left in
December 2012.    This recruitment is expected to beef up the PCU's capacity regarding
procurement and ensure strict oversight and efficient management of all procurement activities.
The new procurement specialist is expected to be on board no later than one month after the
effectiveness of this AF. The Bank has already received for non-objection the short list of
candidates selected candidates.
7


﻿22.    Financing   arrangements. The PCU       will continue to handle project financial
management activities. A retroactive financing provision has been agreed to cover the likely
financing gap during AF project preparation estimated at about US$ 800,000. This funding
includes the following items: (i) operating costs of the PCU and its field representations, office
rental, vehicle O&M, office maintenance, as well as the costs associated with project oversight
activities, such as field supervision visits; (ii) salaries of the PCU contractual staff; and (iii)
consultants services for the feasibility studies of market-oriented infrastructure, and other
required consultant services, as reflected by written contracts and duly supported by approved
procurement documentation. GoM's request for retroactive financing was confirmed at
Negotiations. To that effect, GoM submitted to IDA a specific work plan describing the activities
to be financed, their implementation timeline and associated costs. All above project
expenditures incurred after January 1, 2013 and prior to Credit effectiveness are eligible for
retroactive financing.
23.    Closing dates. The closing date of the original Credit has been previously extended to
June 30, 2013 to allow a seamless project implementation until such time the AF Credit is
effective. The expected closing date of the Additional Financing is June 30, 2015. During the
current extension phase, the Project will establish close partnership with another Bank project -
the Mali Fostering Agriculture Productivity Project (PAPAM - FY20 11). This project will
provide the funding for completion of the last batch of ACDP sub-projects not yet implemented
for lack of funds.
24.    Project description. A brief description of project activities is provided below. The cost
comparison of project components under the initial and AF phases is in Table 2 below. Detailed
costs are in Annex 2. The detailed project description is in Annex 4.
Table 2: Changes in project costs by components
Original       Changes with AF         Total
costs                                revised
Components                      (US$          US$      % original  project costs
million) 1/   million      costs        (US$
million)
Component 1 - Demonstration and dissemination        10.3       12.8      124 %           23.1
of irrigation, post-harvest and value-adding
technologies (Of which sub-projects)                (3.0)    (5.9) 2/      196%           (9.9)
Component 2 - Improvement of agricultural            7.1         3.2        45 %          10.3
value chains
Component 3 - Access to financing                    2.9      3.0 3/      103 %            5.9
Component 4 - Market-oriented infrastructure        21.5         3.3        15 %          24.8
(Of which commercial facilities)                    (4.3)       (3.3)     (77%)           (7.6)
Component 5 - Project management and M&E             5.6         2.1        37 %           7.7
Total costs                                         47.4     24.4 4/       51 %           71.8
1/ Source: ACPD PAD July 2005
2/ This includes all direct costs related to sub-projects, i.e., eligible sub-project investments, and support for sub-
project preparation, approval and implementation.
3/ Including an allocation of $1.3 million for the Guaranty Fund to be provided by the Government as counterpart
contribution.
8


﻿4/ Including $2.6 million government's counterpart funding ($1.2 million for the Guaranty Fund and $1.4 million in
forgone taxes), and sub-project promoters' contribution of $1.8 million), or a total $4.4 million national contribution
to project funding.
25.    Component 1: Demonstration and dissemination of irrigation, post-harvest and
value-adding technologies. Of the total IDA funding under the AF, US$10.2 million is
earmarked for Component 1, representing 99 percent of the initial funding for that component.
The AF focus is on technology dissemination and private sector development with major
emphasis on the Innovation and Investment Fund (IIF) program. This program receives about
US$3.5 million. The remaining funds of US$6.7 million are allocated for technical assistance for
project field implementation, continued training of private operators, residual support to the
Technology Demonstration and Dissemination Centers (CDDPs) created under the Project for
technology dissemination activities, and capacity building of targeted Inter-Professional
Organizations (IPOs).
26.    The sub-projects cover a spectrum of private sector enterprises ranging from micro-
enterprises that are typically informal, rely on family labor and are directed to the local market,
to SME-type enterprises that operate at a much larger scale, are typically in the formal sector and
cater to the demand of the national, regional and international markets. Accordingly, the 200
sub-projects to be funded as part of the IIF portfolio under the AF are of larger size than the 350
completed during initial phase that were typically micro-enterprises. Matching grants are
expected to lessen the promoters' financial risks, and hence increase their incentive to invest, in
the initial stage of sub-project implementation. The average matching grant amount under the
AF is about $18,000 (67% of eligible costs) vs. US$12,000 under the original project. The sub-
project typology is presented in Table 3 below. Sub-projects are distributed as follows: (i) 156
micro-projects (78 percent) with emphasis on those that have strong potential to grow and
expand, and (ii) 44 SME-type sub-projects (22 percent) building on the project-prepared
technical and economic references/standards. This category includes 20 micro-projects (10
percent of total) that have proved successful during the initial phase and need additional funding
to consolidate and scale up their activities to become SMEs.
Table 3: Sub-Project Typology (number of sub-projects)
Micro-                                  Women-
Sub-Project Category                .      SMEs      Total      %
Enterprises                               operated
*  Irrigated production (mangoes,        80         15        95*     47.5%       20
onions, potatoes, vegetables)
*  Agro-processing, storage and          35         20        55      27.5%       52
marketing
*  Animal production                     25          5        30        15%        7
*   Service providers and artisans       16          4        20        10%        1
Total                     156       44**       200      100%       80
%                      78%         22%      100%                 40%
* Of which 11 sub-projects for planting material production
** Of which 20 successful micro-enterprises funded during the initial phase expected to grow and expand to become
SMEs: 6 in irrigated production, 10 in agro-processing and 4 in animal production
9


﻿27.   Component 2: Improvement of agricultural value chains. IDA         funding for
Component 2 amounts to US$2.9 million representing 40 percent of the initial funding.
Component 2's focus under the AF is unchanged. It targets the same priority V/Cs (mangoes,
onions/ shallots, potatoes, and livestock products). AF activities focus on completing and
consolidating the work initiated during the initial phase, in terms of institutional support to
targeted V/Cs and technical training of V/C operators. Emphasis is on creating an enabling
environment for promoters to prepare viable investment projects based on market orientation and
integration of V/C activities. Particular importance is given to product packaging and quality.
28.   Component 3: Access to financing. The US$ 2.6 million AF funding for Component 3
represents the same amount as the initial funding, denoting the AF continued emphasis on
developing access to funding as this is a major constraint for agricultural producers. As in
original project, Component 3 is designed to (i) provide technical support for the preparation and
implementation of sub-projects and other private investment activities, including provision of
specialized financial management support to promoters to remedy their weakness in that area;
and (ii) assist private operators to access commercial funding, and, hence, pave the way for the
viability and sustainability of their investments. Under (i) management of the IIF is the most
prominent activity. Another important activity is the management of the Guaranty Fund (GF) so
that promoters take full advantage of this facility to access commercial loans. This fund will
received an additional allocation of CFAF 600 million financed by government counterpart
funds, bringing its total funding allocation to CFAF 750 million. The GF is meant to lessen the
risks of commercial banks by covering 50% of loan amounts, hereby easing provision of credit to
investors on their part. Under (ii), activities are the continued financial training of V/C actors
based on the financial tools developed during the initial phase (e.g., risk sheets), and assistance
for their interface with commercial banks. It includes also an allocation of $1.3 million for the
Guaranty Fund to be provided by the Government as part of its counterpart contribution.
29.   Component 4: Market-oriented infrastructure. IDA funding for Component 4 is
US$2.5 million and is earmarked solely for commercial infrastructure, representing 58 percent of
the initial allocation for that activity. The component is expected to create the required enabling
environment for V/C operators to process, stock and market their products, hence paving the way
for reduction of losses, increased marketed production and enhanced quality of marketed
products. Special attention will be given to effective management of project-constructed
facilities, based on Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs), with the objective of lowering production
and marketing costs, and improving quality standards.
30.   Component 5: Project management and M&E. IDA funding for Component 5 is
US$1.8 million and represent 32 percent of the initial funding. The AF supports the continued
operation of the PCU, including M&E and communication activities. It is expected that, as
project implementation unfolds, project management competencies under Component 5 will be
gradually transferred to relevant V/C structures and government bodies. Major attention will be
placed on developing the suitable PPPs required to achieve that objective.
IV. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
31.   Project design and implementation. Under the AF phase, project activities continue to
be guided by the following principles that presided over the design of the initial phase. Project
activities are: (i) demand-driven and market-oriented; (ii) private sector-led and contributing to
10


﻿forge public-private partnerships; (iii) based on outsourced implementation activities; and (iii)
organized under a 'framework program' addressing all cross-cutting issues in an integrated way
for each targeted Value-Chain (V/C). As was the case during the initial period, project activities
are decentralized. They are deployed in the same four regions of Mali enjoying a strong potential
for commercial agriculture: Sikasso, S6gou, Bamako/Koulikoro and Mopti regions. These
regions are currently affected to different degrees by Mali's ongoing internal conflict and
security restrictions in place. The demographics and needs of populations in these regions will
have likely changed as a result of the conflict. This concerns, in particular, access to the fields
and agricultural productivity, as well as demands from the urban populations which has grown as
a result of the flow of refugees from the North. As a result, implementation and supervision
activities in some areas will likely be affected by the ongoing crisis. The team will consider
alternative supervision arrangements, as needed, to ensure adequate monitoring of the project
activities. The overall project implementation risk is therefore rated as 'moderate' (see ORAF in
Annex 3).
32.    Overall project leadership and oversight continue to be vested with the Steering
Committee at national level. This committee approves the project annual work program and
budget. It ensures inter-ministerial coordination and inter-agency cooperation. Its membership
includes all ministries involved in market-oriented agricultural promotion, as well as private
sector stakeholders. It provides policy guidance, ensures consistency with national policies,
monitors progress and results, and resolves the inter-agency or inter-ministerial problems and
implementation bottlenecks that may arise. To enhance decentralization and ensure that full
responsibility for project field operations is duly given to regional and local authorities and
economic operators, similar steering committees exist in the four project regions.  These
committees have the same role in their regions as the National Committee for all project
activities at national level. The national and regional committees meet on a yearly basis.
33.    Project coordination and supervision at the national level continue to be entrusted to a
small high-level Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). The main project implementation principle at
field level, strongly reaffirmed during the Mid-Term Review (MTR), continues to be the
outsourcing of project implementation activities to private operators. In line with this principle, a
competitively-recruited TA team assumes in each region the responsibility for management of
day-to-day project activities. All other implementation activities are also outsourced to either
consultancy firms or research institutes (studies), private contractors (civil works), private
service providers and NGOs (organizational and capacity building aspects), and commercial
banks and microfinance institutions (credit access).
34.    The Project continues to focus on organizing the different actors all along the targeted
Value Chains (V/Cs) and building the capacity of the corresponding Inter-Professional
Organizations (IPOs). The major objective is to ensure that IPOs take charge gradually of the
V/Cs' internal organization, the priority actions to be undertaken in their respective sectors, and
the mobilization of resources to carry out their activities. The ultimate objective is to lay the
basis for sustainability of activities after project closing, by creating multi-stakeholder decision-
making forums, forging public/private partnerships and establishing co-financing mechanisms
for the promotion of each targeted agricultural V/Cs based on strong private sector ownership.
35.    Economic and financial analysis. An analysis of the different investments anticipated
under the AF phase was performed to assess their economic and financial impacts for the
beneficiaries individually and for the country as a whole. The results were compared with those
11


﻿of the initial phase. Details of the methodology used and the results obtained are in Annex 5.
The results of the financial analysis of enterprise-level investments are encouraging. Although
each recommended technology demands new skills and increased spending on inputs, these
investments can lead to large gains in individual enterprise gross margins. The Internal Rate of
Return (IRR) for individual enterprises ranges from 23 percent for papayas to 73 percent for
dried mangoes. The main sub-project enterprises are extremely profitable, as testified by their
respective IRRs: (i) shallots/ onions: 63 percent, (ii) mangoes: 33 percent, (iii) potatoes: 52
percent and (iv) fattening of live animals: 58 percent. The analysis also reveals that the matching
grants planned under the IIF will help in significant ways to improve the enterprise cash-flow
and lead directly to increased incomes during the critical financial period when producers/
processors are just getting started with the new activities. Measures to screen individual
investment proposals are critical to ensure that the enterprise-level investments approved under
the Project continue to be economically justified. Hence the need to strictly adhere to the
procedures laid out in the Operating Manual of the Innovation and Investment Fund (IIF)
regarding that matter. This manual has been revised to better suit the needs of the new portfolio
of sub-projects.
36.    The Net Present Value (NPV) in economic terms for enterprise-level investments (sub-
projects) computed at a 10 percent discount rate reflecting the opportunity cost of borrowing for
the country is approximately US$ 6.5 million. The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the entire
project is estimated at about 16.5 percent. This result is line with the ERR of the initial phase,
estimated at about 16%. The slightly higher ERR is explained by the fact that entrepreneurs are
expected to build on the knowledge and lessons of experience acquired during the first phase of
project implementation. The sensitivity analysis based on increases of 10, 20 and 30 percent of
project costs (other than enterprise-level investments) gives rates of return of 15.6, 14.0 and 12.6
percent, respectively, denoting robustness to increase in project investments costs. The
sensitivity analysis based on decreases of 10, 20 and 30 percent in the gross margins of
participant investors gives rates of return of 15.4, 13.2 and 11.0 percent, respectively. This latter
is further evidence of robustness of the project ERR to the decrease in the revenues received by
investors arising from a combined production volume and market price decrease.
37.    Safeguards policies triggered. The Project has been classified as Category B, in line
with Bank policies with respect to environmental and social considerations. The envisaged
nature of the activities to be supported under the proposed AF is not expected to generate any
different and/or additional negative environmental and social impacts than initial activities. The
Project's classification is therefore maintained at Category B, and no other safeguards policies
are triggered beyond those already triggered under the original phase: (i) OP 4.01 on
Environmental Assessment, (ii) OP 4.09 on Pest Management, and (iii) OP 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement. The project adverse impacts, if any, may relate to: (i) potential loss of natural
vegetation; (ii) hygiene and sanitation risks due to inappropriate use or dumping of fertilizers in
the natural environment; (iii) land acquisition and land use conflicts; and (iv) nuisance factors
(noise and odor) to surrounding settlements.    However, the above potential adverse
environmental and social impacts under the AF phase, as revealed by the safeguard instruments
(Environmental and Social Management Framework-ESMF, Pest Management Plan-PMP, and
Resettlement Framework-RPF) are expected to remain minimal, site specific and manageable to
an acceptable level, and not lead to any irreversible threat and risk to the receiving environment
in the proposed project locations. All safeguard instruments were prepared, consulted upon, and
disclosed before AF appraisal.
12


﻿38.    The PCU is responsible for ensuring that operators of new technologies and commercial
facilities comply with safeguard obligations. To date, the ESMP prepared for the original project
has provided guidance on management and mitigation measures for environmental and social
impacts of the sub-projects, such as road rehabilitation and construction of processing facilities.
The project has not to date required the preparation of any RAPs, as no land has been acquired
that involves involuntary resettlement and/or restrictions of access to resources and livelihoods.
The PCU environmental and social specialist is responsible for the implementation of all the
provisions of the safeguard instruments. In that respect, the specialist will ensure inter alia that:
(i) the sub-projects are duly screened for their environmental impact, and their Environmental
and Social Management Plans (ESMPs) are prepared and executed in a timely manner; (ii) the
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for constructions are prepared, approved, disclosed and fully
executed prior to the starting of the civil works execution; (iii) the bidding documents for the
constructions include the relevant environmental and social aspects the contractors must consider
in their proposals; (iv) the building contracts include appropriate descriptions of the management
of potentially dangerous finds and wastes; (v) the contractors effectively implement the
environmental and social diligences during construction; (vi) at construction end, the
decommissioning of workers' camps, and the rehabilitation of opened quarries and borrow pits
are properly completed; and (vii) appropriate sensitization and capacity building are carried out
for the benefit of stakeholders. The National Directorate for Sanitation and Pollution Control
(DNACPN) is responsible of ensuring that the PCU complies with its obligations set forth in the
Environmental Permit issued by the Ministry of Environment and Sanitation (MSE).
39.    The environmental and social mitigation measures summarized in the ESMF, PMP, and
the RPF, as well as the approved specific mitigation measures, will be executed, monitored and
reported in: (i) a specific Safeguard Monitoring Report and (ii) the Environmental and Social
Safeguards section of the periodic project progress reports. Follow-up responsibility for the
above is vested with the PCU. The indicators of implementation of the safeguards instruments
are as follows: (i) full execution of the RAP before the commencement of the main civil works;
(ii) number of complaints received/resolved after compensation/relocation; (iii) percent of
ESMP-monitored sub-projects; and (iv) number of safeguard implementation reports. All related
reports will be transmitted to DNACPN.
40.    Financial management. The same FM institutional arrangements used for the ongoing
project would apply to the AF. As substantiated by the last FM supervision mission of November
2012, project FM performance is satisfactory, and current arrangements are acceptable.
However, following the resignation of one of the accountant at Coordination unit level, staffing
currently comprises one financial officer, one accountant at coordination unit level and five
accountants at regional level. A new accountant is being recruited to fill the related gap. Books
of accounts and supporting documents are properly kept in respect of all expenditures. The audit
for the year ending December 2011 for the project was submitted on time, and was unqualified.
The recommendations made to strengthen the internal control system are being implemented.
The overall risk for the AF, therefore, is deemed moderate. The financial management
arrangement of the ongoing project that would apply to the AF satisfies the Bank's minimum
requirements under OP/BP 10.02, and therefore is adequate to provide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely financial management information on the status of the project as
required by the Bank. For the new infrastructure facilities to be constructed during the AF
period, the Project will use a newly-designated agency (AGETIPE) that will be given delegated
oversight over construction activities. AGETIER, the previous agency will continue to be
contracted under the AF for the completion of ongoing contracts (upgrade of the centralization
13


﻿markets for potatoes and shallots, respectively at Sikasso and Niono, and construction of a cold
storage at Sikasso). A review of the FM capacity of AGETIPE and AGETIER was then
conducted to determine whether the Agencies meet the Bank's minimum requirements.
41.   Like AGETIER, AGETIPE has also executed similar activities for previous Bank-
financed operations and is in some extent familiar with IDA procedures. However, some
weaknesses have been revealed in their internal control arrangements during the execution of the
said previous Bank-financed projects namely the inadequate management of contracts and the
lack of quality review and internal audit function.
42.   Delegated management contracts will be signed between PCU and the construction
managers (AGETIPE and AGETIER) that will (i) clarify their roles and responsibilities, (ii)
describe financial management and disbursements arrangements and (iii) detail actions plans and
budgets covering outputs and outcomes to be achieved during AF implementation period.
43.   As a result of the identified financial management capacity constraints with the view to
reinforcing internal controls, the following additional measures would be taken: (i) conclude
with AGETIPE and AGETIER agreements clarifying their roles and responsibilities as delegated
execution agencies including FM arrangements to facilitate coordination and financial reporting
with the PCU; (ii) update the current subproject procedures manual, so that it includes
particularly the AF activities related to the new decentralized approval process of sub-projects;
(iii) recruit a senior accountant fully dedicated to manage the matching grant program and
facilitate the validation process of subprojects; (iv) finalize the recruitment of the accountant at
the coordination unit level; (v) recruit an internal auditor to carry out ex-posts reviews of the
projects transactions as well as the ones done by the delegated execution agencies; (vi) ensure
external auditor TORs will take into account the sub-project decentralized approval process and
the project activities delegated to AGETIPE and AGETIER. The overall FM risk for the AF,
therefore is deemed moderate.
44.   Procurement. For the proposed AF project, procurement for the proposed operation will
be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works
and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" published by the World Bank in January 2011 ("Procurement Guidelines"), in the
case of goods, works and non-consulting services; the World Bank's "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" published by the World Bank in January 2011 ("Consultant Guidelines") in the case
of consultants' services; and the provisions stipulated in the Financing Agreements. Further, the
World Bank's "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects
Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006, and revised in
January 2011 will apply (see procurement arrangements in Annex 7).
45.   For each contract financed by the AF Credit, the different procurement or consultant
selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements and
time frame will be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank as part of the Procurement Plan.
This plan will be updated at least annually, and as required to reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity. All procurement procedures
under each component will be described in the updated Manual of Procedures to ensure that the
AF project is executed in a timely, transparent and efficient manner.
14


﻿46.   With view to laying the groundwork for the AF period, a procurement assessment was
prepared on October and December 2012, for operations carried out by the Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU), and the current and newly-designated agencies for delegated contract management
(AGETIER and AGETIPE), respectively. The assessment reviewed the adequacy of the project
organizational structure and supporting control systems at country and implementing agency
level, as well as the staff functions, skills and experience with respect to procurement.
47.   The findings of the assessment were the following: (i) the PCU had a dedicated and
properly trained procurement specialist who left the Project at the end of December 2012; (ii)
AGETIER, the current agency for contracts management had no staff proficient in Bank
procurement procedures; (iii) AGETIPE, the newly-designated agency for delegated contracts
management, had a procurement unit with experienced staff versed in Bank procurement
procedures, but it had a heavy staff workload which seemed to be a challenge; both AGETIPE
and AGETIER had adopted the AFRICATIP manual with a number of customized changes to
reflect the need of their organizations; and (iv) the existing Manual of Procedures of the original
project needed to be updated for the AF, as far as procurement is concerned, the update was to
outline, on one hand, the interaction between the PCU and the delegated construction managers
(AGETIER and AGETIPE), as regards their respective responsibilities for procurement, and, on
other hand, the interaction between the PCU and the Agriculture Ministry's relevant central unit
for finance and procurement (Directorate of Finance and Material - DFM). The Manual of
Procedures has been revised based on the above recommendations.
48.   Based on the procurement assessment, the risk is currently considered as 'high' for the
PCU due to the temporary absence of a procurement specialist (the recruitment is expected to be
completed by mid-April 2013), and 'moderate' for AGETIER and AGETIPE. The overall
project risk for procurement (before implementation of mitigating measures) is considered
'substantial'. The assessment recommended a range of measures to mitigate this risk. With the
implementation of these measures and the support which will be provided by the Bank during the
project implementation, the risk should decrease to 'moderate' (see ORAF in Annex 3).
49.   Policy exceptions and readiness. No exceptions are envisaged. The Project is fully
operational so that the proposed activities can start being implemented under retroactive
financing as soon as the Credit is negotiated, and continue seamlessly until such time the Credit
is effective.
50.   Effectiveness conditions. There are no effectiveness conditions.
15


﻿MALI: Agriculture Competitiveness and Diversification Project (ACDP)
Additional Financing.
Annex 1 Revised Results Framework and Monitoring Indicators
Revisions to the Results Framework                           Comments/
Rationale for Change
PDO
Current (PAD)               Propos~ed
To foster improvements in the  No change                           No change.
performance of value chains
for a range of agricultural and
livestock products for which
Mali has a strong comparative
advantage.
PDO indicators
Current (PAD)               Prposcdchange*
Volume of products marketed  Dropped.                              Volume and value indicators
on the domestic, regional                                          retained, percentage indicator did
and/or international market                                        not demonstrate pertinence.
(increase in percentage, per
selected value chain)
Volume of products marketed  Volume of production marketed by project  No change.
on the domestic, regional   -supported VC/s
and/or international market.
Value of products marketed on  Value of production marketed by project -  No change.
the domestic, regional and/or  supported VC/s
international market.
Value chains with improved  Dropped.                               Original target of 6 supply chains
performances (number).                                             with improved performance has
been achieved.
Project beneficiaries.                Core indicator, not included in
original results framework.
Of which female (beneficiaries)       Core indicator, not included in
original results framework.


﻿Intermediate Results indicators
Current (PAD)                 Proposed change*
Intermediate Result 1: Demonstration and dissemination of irrigation, post-harvest and value-adding technologies
Intermediate Result indicator  Sub-projects (micro-enterprises and SMEs)  No change.
One: Sub-projects
implemented and financed
under the Innovation Fund
(KPI) (Number, break down in
irrigation, agro-processing,
fish, livestock).
Women benefitting from sub-projects       Core indicator added.
Intermediate Result indicator  Dropped.                                 Retained in detailed project M&E.
two: Producers and processors
who have adopted one of the
new technologies (KPI).
Intermediate Result indicator  Dropped.                                 Retained in detailed project M&E.
three: Artisans and private
service providers trained (KPI)
Intermediate Result indicator  Dropped.                                 Retained in detailed project M&E.
four: Artisans newly installed
for the dissemination and the
maintenance of equipment and
technologies (KPI) (Number)
Intermediate Result indicator  Dropped.                                 Activity completed.
five: Set-up and functioning
of demonstration centers
(CDDP) (Number)
Intermediate Result indicator  Dropped.                                 Activity completed.
six: Technical-economic
references (data sheet) for
producers and processors
available (Number)
Intermediate Result 2: Improvement of agricultural value chains
Intermediate Result indicator  Sizeable private investment projects in  Indicator retained but target
One: Sizeable private investment  project targeted V/Cs                 reduced from 4 to 2, as project
projects (foreign, joint-ventures,                                      refocused on medium and small-
etc.) generated and/or supported                                        sized enterprises following the
in the selected value chains (KPI)                                      political and security crises.
(Number)
17


﻿Intermediate Result indicator  Dropped.                                   Retained in detailed project M&E.
Two: Inter-professional
organizations created and
operational in the selected value
chains (KPI) (Number)
Intermediate Result indicator   Dropped.                                  Activity completed.
Three: Sets of technical
specifications prepared & adopted
by private economic operators in
the sell value chains (KPI)
(Number)
Intermediate Result indicator   Market information bulletins disseminated.  No change.
four: Market information bulletins
disseminated (to private sector)
(Number)
Intermediate Result 3: Access to financing
Intermediate Result indicator  Dropped.                                   Covered by second indicator, as all
One: Loans granted to private                                             loans granted are guaranteed.
economic operators in the selected
value chains (KPI) (Number)
Intermediate Result indicator  Amount of guarantees granted.              No change.
Two: Amount of credits
guaranteed to private operators by
guarantee facility (in CFA
million) (Number).
Intermediate Result indicator  Recovery rate of guaranteed credits.       No change.
Three: Recovery rate of
guaranteed credits (Percentage)
Intermediate Result 4: Market-oriented infrastructure
Intermediate Result indicator   Dropped.                                  Activity completed.
One: Roads rehabilitated, Rural
(Kilometers) -CORE Indicator
Intermediate Result indicator   Commercial infrastructures implemented    No change.
Two: Commercial facilities built /
rehabilitated (KPI) (Number).
Intermediate Result indicator   Delegated management contracts            No change
Three: Facilities managed under
management agreements signed
between the state and private
economic operators (KPI)
(Percentage)
Intermediate Result 5: Project management and M&E
Intermediate Result indicator   National and regional steering committees  No change.
One: Regular meetings of the   meetings
Comit6 National de Pilotage et
d'Orientation (CNPO) and of the
Comit6s R6gionaux de Pilotage et
d'Orientation (CRPO)in
accordance with the PIM (KPI)
(Text Description, break down in
Regional and National Steering
Committees).
18


﻿REVISED PROJECT RESULTS FRAMEWORK
Project Development Objective (PDO):
To foster improvements in the performance of value chains for a range of agricultural and livestock products for which Mali has
strong comparative advantage.
PDO Level Results Indicators        UOM      Baseline   Progress   Cumulative Target  Frequency   Data Source/   Responsibility for
Original   To Date    Values                         Methodology    Data Collection   Comments
Project    (2012)     2014     2015
Start
(2005)
1. Volume of        Mangoes    E    Metric   57,000     73,000     95,000   122,000   Annually    Official       Ministry of
production          Shallots        tons     210,000    601,000    781,00   981,000               campaign       Agriculture and
marketed by                                                        0                              statistics     Project
project -supported  Potatoes                 52,000     205,000    260,00   320,000
VC/s                                                               0
2. Value of         Mango      E    CFCA     10,500     37,600     47,600   58,600    Annually    Export data/   Customs, Ministry
production          Shallots        million  32,000     78,300     93,300   113,300               Ministry of    of Agriculture and
marketed by                                                                                       Agriculture    Project
project -supported  Potatoes                 7,000      36,400     40,400   50,900                statistics
VC/s
Beneficiaries
Project beneficiaries          Z    Number   0          7,000      8,000    9,000     Twice       Project M&E    Project
annually
Of which female                Z    Number   0          2,000      2,400    2,700     Twice       Project M&E    Project
(beneficiaries)                                                                       annually
19


﻿Intermediate Results and Indicators
Baseline                                      Data Source/   Responsibility
Original Progress  Target Values  Frequency   Methodology      for Data        Comments
OnUnlitores                                             etofloy        Collection
Intermediate Results Indicators       Unit of    Project   To Date
,   Measurement                      2014    2015
Start    (2012)
_   _(2005)
Intermediate Result 1: Demonstration and dissemination of irrigation, post-harvest and value-adding technologies
Sub-projects (micro-                             T                                  Twice
enterprises and SMEs)           H   Number           0        271     351     471   annually    Project M&E   Project
Women benefitting from sub-                      ITi
projets beeftin                      %               0        32%     40%     40%    Twice      Project M&E    Project
proj ects                                                                           annually
Intermediate Result 2: Improvement of agricultural value chains
Sizeable private investment
projects in project targeted    w    Number          0         0       1       2     awcy      Project M&E    Project
V/Cs
Market information bulletins                                                         Twice
disseminated                                                                         a Number  0  24  29  39  nnually  Project M&E  Project
Intermediate Result 3: Access to financing
Amount of guarantees granted                     TTwice
A    CFAF million    0        800     1,100  1,480              Project M&E    Project
annually
Recovery rate of guaranteed          %               0        90/     950     950    Twice         ect M&E     Project
credits                                                                              annually   Proj
Intermediate Result 4: Market-oriented infrastructure
Commercial infrastructures         1             T    0               1      1      Twic      1
implemented                         Number           0                                  ally
20


﻿Intermediate Results and Indicators
Baseline                                       Data Source/    Responsibility
Target Values  Frequency                      for Data       Comments
Unit of    Original  Progress                              Methodology      Collection
Intermediate Results Indicators     Measurement    Project  To Date   2014    2015
Start    (2012)
(2005)
Delegated management                                                                   Twice
contracts                        H   Number            0         1       6       11    annually   Project M&E    Project
Intermediate Result 5: Project management and M&E
National and regional steering      1             T         1            3   1         Twice         *ectM&E
comites  eeins           0   Number       {    0        30      35j     40    Twc1       1Projec ME      Project
committees meetings                                                                    annually
21


﻿Annex 2. Revised Estimate of Project Costs
Figures shown below are in US$
MALI: Agriculture Competitiveness and Diversification Project (ACDP)
Additional Financing
ComponentsCosts (including                        % total      Bank      % Financing
contingencies)              financing
Component 1 - Demonstration and dissemination of new
technology and Matching Grant Program (MGP)
Dissemination of new technologies and MGP               11,145         46         8,787          79
Capacity building                                        1,616           7        1,371          85
Subtotal                                                12,761         52        10,158          80
Component 2 - Strengthening of V/C effectiveness
Trade promotion and access to information                2,375          10        2,137          90
V/C institutional strengthening                            356           2         320           90
Product quality and packaging                              345           1         310           90
Management support to market-oriented facilities           122           1         110           90
Subtotal                                                 3,197          13        2,878          90
Component 3 - Access to funding
Management of Innovation and Investment Fund             1,531           6        1,367          89
Credit access facilitation                               1,423           6        1,281          90
Subtotal                                                 2,955          12        2,648          90
Component 4 - Market-oriented infrastructure
Subtotal                                                 3,344          14        2,502          75
Component 5 - Project management and M&E
Coordination                                             1,712           7        1,443          84
M&E                                                        122           1         110           90
Supervision and control                                    126           1         113           90
Communication                                              168           1         148           88
Subtotal                                                 2,127           9        1,814          85
TOTAL                                                         24,384        100       20,000           82
22


﻿Annex 3 Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF)
MALI - Agricultural Competitiveness and Diversification Project
Additional Financing
Stage: Board
Risk category/Risk description                           Risk rating/Proposed mitigation measures/Responsibility-timing and stage for
mitigation.
Project Stakeholder Risks                                Rating      Low
Description: There are vested interests that may lead to certain  Risk Management: The risk is rated 'low' because vested interests are unlikely to pressure project
influential constituencies putting pressure on Project to decide  staff to decide in their favor. This is because the project governance arrangements are private-sector
in their favor for service provision and financing, particularly as  led and there is full transparency in project operations. Interested private actors in project-targeted
regards the sub-projects under the Matching Grant Program.  V/Cs are competing for project support based on clear and well-defined rules of the game. In that
respect the Project Implementation Manual (including a specific manual for the Matching Grant
Program for sub-projects selection and implementation) has been revised and fine-tuned as required
during project implementation to account for evolving implementation circumstances. It provides a
solid accountability framework for project implementation. There is strong evidence of strict
adherence to the rules of the game laid out in the PIM by both project staff and private beneficiaries.
Resp: (PCU)           Stage: Board          Due Date: Ongoing     Status:
Implementing Agency Risks (including fiduciary)
Capacity                                                 Rating:     Substantial
Description: The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) at central Risk Management: (i) Maintain a strong PCU team in place at central level; recruit a new
level and the TA teams based in all four project regions are
fully operational and have strong management and technical    speciali    st to  rceute inumen o     eft iecmer 21 are) nsure th the
capacity. In contrast, the operational capabilities of project seiaizedrTAeoperators rerecruited (baedon  t rcruiet sugreedieatly f o
beneficiaries, and service and training providers, remain low.
This low level of expertise may affect project implementation  beneficiaries; (iii) Ensure that the above team focuses on providing adequate training to beneficiaries
negatively, especially the design and implementation of and service providers, and relevant guidance regarding all project field activities, including the
enterprise-level productive  investments  (the  sub-project strengthening of V/C organizations, the facilitation of access to funding and assistance for the design
portfolio under the Matching Grant Program).             and implementation of sub-project investments; and (iv) The AF will support, and upscale as
required, the development and adaptation of the Project's training program for the above purpose.
Resp: Gvt (PCU)       Stage: Board          Due Date: Ongoing     Status:
Governance                                               Rating:     Moderate
23


﻿Description: Some project operations, particularly sub-project  Risk Management: The AF will continue to adhere strictly to project implementation rules as laid
investments under the Matching Grant Program, can potentially  out in the up-dated PIM. Internal control procedures, operational review  and information
be subject to mismanagement and misprocurement.           dissemination are included in the project design and the fiduciary manual to increase transparency
and accountability.
Internal control: the project will continue supporting the internal control of the PCU. It will in
particular continue to build its capacity through training on audit methodology, preparing work
programs based on risk assessment and the adoption of risk based approach to perform regular ex-
post audits.
Information dissemination: a monitoring mechanism to increase transparency on flow of funds will be
put in place under the oversight of the steering committee to ensure timely disbursement of the
matching grants. Particular attention will be placed on the proper use of the matching grants for sub-
project funding to avoid any misuse of funds. Fund to equipment suppliers will be directly
transferred; specific individual accounts will be set up by beneficiaries; and the remaining funds will
be disbursed in tranches on these accounts along a strict timetable upon submission of evidence of
work completion. Sub-projects will be submitted to periodic technical and financial audits. Field
visits will be conducted regularly to collect information and monitor implementation progress of
various components.
Resp: Gvt (PCU) Stage: Board Due Date: Ongoing Status: Not yet due
Project Risks
Design                                                Rating:      Low
Description: Current institutional arrangements are not fully  Risk Management: The project team, consisting of the PCU in charge of coordination and oversight,
sustainable after project completion. PCU's and the TA    and the TA operators in charge of field implementation has proved to be very robust. It has been
operators' responsibilities are not properly devolved to V/C  reaffirmed and fine-tuned as project implementation has unfolded. To sustain the momentum, there
structures and government technical bodies that make up the  will be no change in implementation arrangements. For long term project sustainability, the PCU and
permanent institutional framework. . Recipient structures may  the TA  operators will gradually hand over implementation responsibilities to private sector
not have the required capacity either to assume responsibilities.  institutions and government technical bodies. Time-bound arrangements will be agreed to that effect.
Resp: Gvt (PCU)        Stage: Board          Due Date: Ongoing      Status:
Social & Environmental                                    Rating:      Moderate
Description: Regarding environmental considerations, project  Risk Management: An ESMF, PMP, and RPF have been prepared, consulted upon, and disclosed for
beneficiaries under the matching grant program will increase  this AF. The PCU has initiated the process of recruiting a staff specialized on environmental and
the use of agricultural inputs and other chemicals to implement  social issues to beef up its capacity in that area. Sub-projects have been subjected to in-depth
their sub-projects. This use may have an adverse impact on the  environmental screening up- to date; attention will be placed on implementing environment measures
environment. Hence the continued need of mitigation       including sub-projects screening.
measures. The application of the mandatory mitigation     The elaboration of sub-project investments will continue to include a strict analysis of their potential
measures on the ground, however, may not be sufficiently  adverse impacts on the environment and provides relevant mitigation measures. The PCU will
adhered to. There is a particular risk of non-respect of food  continue to ensure a close supervision of the application of mitigation measures as part of sub-project
safety norms for agro-processing units. There is the risk that  investments.  Rigorous monitoring and evaluation will be undertaken to gauge compliance of
certain groups may be left out or lagging in taking advantage of  investment implementation with the proposed mitigation actions. Implementation of indicators of
thesubproect. Wmenarea cse n pint esecillyin iew sub-projects will be duly monitored to ensure that at least 40 % of agro-processing projects are
the sub-projects. Women are a case in point, especially in view omen-owned.
of the fact that they are the main actors in the agro-processing
sector.
24


﻿Program & Donor coordination                             Rating:      Low
Description: The Project is a stand-alone operation and is not Risk Management: The Innovation and Investment Fund (IIF) is co-funded by equity contribution
contingent on other co-financing sources, including commercial from the beneficiaries. Beneficiaries are urged to secure commercial loans but this is not a condition
banks.                                                   of participation in the HF.
Resp:                 Stage: Board           Due Date:             Status:
Delivery Monitoring & Sustainability                     Rating:      Low
Description: The sustainability of project-supported private  Risk Management: Under Component 2 efforts have been deployed to strengthen V/C structures
sector institutions (notably V/C structures) following project  through training, establishment sub-sector strategies, work plans. Corresponding training has been
completiongiven. The PCU is expertly staffed to that effect. The institutional arrangements for preparation and
operations is also a risk. Arlth s    b of sub-project  approval of sub-project have been in place for several years now. The operational manual for the
opeatins s aso  rik.  frctin o su-prjecs ae bund Matching Grant Program has been revised and fine-tuned regularly. The financial and operational
not to achieve expected results. It is too early to estimate the  viability of the sub-projects is typically good, predicated on strong ownership on the part of
possible failure rate.                                   beneficiaries. The rate of failure of sub-projects is expected to be low given project support to
In the original project, women participation did not fully  implementation of sub-project investments, and, in any case, not above norms given the difficult
achieve its target for sub-project activities (32% vs. 50%  private sector environment that prevails in Mali. The commodity focus of the Project is intended to
targted. I ths rgar th 50  tagetforwomn prtiipaion ensure that activities being supported will have high priority; regular consultation on benefits and
targeted). In this regard the 50% target for women participation
ipckwl baaeimpont. ne  opnn         fot   aebe      elydt      teghnVCsrcue
has proved too ambitious given the type of projects that has                                                                      tranin has been
been financed (more production projects typically dominated  Under Component 1, the training for sub-project preparation proposals will put an accent on women
by men have emerged from the competitive selection process  entrepreneurs and traders to enhance the likelihood of winning. The target of 50% was also revised
than agricultural processing projects typically in the hands of  down to 40% to take into account the over ambitious target in the original project.
women).                                                  Resp: Gvt (PC a)       Stage: Board Due Date: Ongoing              Status:
Overall Implementation Risk Rating: Moderate
25


﻿MALI: Agriculture Competitiveness and Diversification Project (ACDP)
Additional Financing
Annex 4. Detailed Description of Modified or New Project Activities
Component 1 - Demonstration and dissemination of irrigation, post-harvest and
Value-adding technologies (US$ 10.2 million)
1. Component I's overall objective is to upgrade the technical, commercial and organizational
performance of: (i) private agriculture enterprises (in the fields of agriculture and livestock
production, agro-processing and agriculture support services), and (ii) Inter-Professional
Organizations (IPOs). Specific objectives are: (i) dissemination of agriculture, livestock and
agro-processing technologies, (ii) institutional support to IPOs, and (iii) training and capacity
building of service providers serving targeted V/Cs.
2. Component 1 is by far the largest project component of the AF, amounting to US$
10.2million (about half of the total project costs) and an increase of 99% over its original
allocation. The component's activities are to: (i) consolidate the first-generation investment
sub-projects; (ii) finance additional sub-projects of larger size than those of the initial phase
(covering a spectrum of size ranging from micro-enterprises to SMEs) with larger matching
grants; (iii) provide technical support for sub-project implementation; (iv) strengthen Inter-
Professional Organizations (IPOs) and make them more operational in support of targeted
V/C actors; and (v) provide continued training for V/C actors and service providers.
3. Component 1 has two sub-components: (i) promotion and dissemination of new technologies
($8.8 million, of which $6.2 million for sub-project investments and the remainder for TA
support), and (ii) capacity building of IPOs and private service providers ($1.4 million).
Sub-component 1.1 - Promotion and dissemination of new technologies & Innovation and
Investment Fund-IIF (US$ 8.8 million)
4. In line with the technology dissemination and private sector promotion objectives, the
backbone of this sub-component is the portfolio of sub-projects to be financed partially by
matching grants under the Innovation and Investment Fund (IIF). $6.2 million are earmarked
for additional sub-project investments or 31% of total project costs, of which US$ 3.5 million
allocated to the Innovation and Investment Fund (FII) for matching grants.
Two hundred (200) new sub-projects are planned to be financed as part of the IIF. The sub-
project typology is presented in Tablelbelow.
5. The size of these sub-projects is much larger than during the initial phase. It falls in the
spectrum between the micro-enterprises (typically those that were financed during the initial
phase) and SMEs. Almost half of the sub-projects concerns agriculture production (95 over
200) and about one fourth (55 over 200) agro-processing, storage and marketing. Animal
production accounts for 15%, and service providers and artisans for 10%. The average
matching grant per sub-project is US$18,0001 (vs. US$ 12,000 currently). It is expected that
20 micro-enterprises financed by the IIF during the initial phase will receive additional
$10,000 for very small enterprises and US$ 50,000 for SMEs.
26


﻿funding and increase their investment size to become SMEs: 6 in irrigated production, 10 in
agro-processing and 4 in animal production.
Table 1: Sub-Project Typology (nb. of sub-projects)
Micro-     SMs        TtlWomen-
Sub-Project Category           .icro-     SMEs      Total      %       Women-
Enterpnises                               operated
*  Irrigated production (mangoes, onions,  80       15        95*      47.5%      20
potatoes vegetables)
*  Agro-processing, storage and          35         20        55       27.5%      52
marketing
*  Animal production                     25          5        30        15%        7
*   Service providers and artisans        16         4        20        10%        1
Total                   156**        44       200      100%        80
%                   1  78%        22%       100%                40%
* Of which 11 sub-projects for planting material production
** 20 successful micro-enterprises funded during the initial phase are expected to grow and expand to become SMEs: 6 in
irrigated production, 10 in agro-processing and 4 in animal production
6. The IIF funding is designed as an incentive to cover the initial risks of these operations. The
challenge is to achieve the long-lasting viability and sustainability of sub-projects. This result
will be obtained in part through increasing the expertise of promoters in their fields of
activity, strengthening the capacity of service providers assisting promoters to design and
implement their sub-projects, and supporting access to commercial bank credit to
complement the matching grant funding under the HF.
Sub-Component 1.2.: Strengthening of capacity of V/C Inter-Professional Organizations
(IPOs) and service providers (US$ 1.4 million)
7. Sub-Component 1.2 objective is to strengthen the capacity of targeted V/Cs' IPOs, as well as
those of private and public service providers, so that production, storage and marketing
activities all along the value chain attain a greater level of performance. The sub-component
cost amounts to about US$ 1.4 million.
Sub-Component 1.2 builds on the results of the Project to date. It consolidates the
institutional capacities of existing IPOs and service providers, and supports the emergence of
new IPOs (e.g., for papayas) and service providers.
8. The aim of this activity is to support the creation of an enabling environment for investors,
through: (i) capacity building of IPOs so that they become operational organizations under
sound governance systems, with both efficient and effective management and adequate
representativeness vis-d-vis V/C actors and (ii) support for the emergence of a strong cadre of
service providers who can bring to bear the required operational expertise on investment
operations; this will be predicated on the continued capacity building of service providers so
that they offer the relevant practical expertise to investors at affordable costs.
27


﻿Component 2 - Improvement of agricultural value chains (US$ 2.9 million)
9. Component 2 aims to increase the volume and value of Malian agriculture and livestock
products marketed on the domestic, regional and international markets by supporting the
creation of an enabling environment in the project-targeted V/Cs. During the AF
consolidation phase, Component 2 focus is on upgrading quality, expanding commercial
promotion and diversifying markets. The component includes the collection of relevant
commercial information and monitoring of market trends. It also funds activities such as
market studies and commercial promotion of Malian products on external markets (e.g., the
Maghreb and Arab states), access to commercial information on the part of investors, and
upgrade of the quality of Malian products so that they meet the required external standards.
Component 2 cost amounts to US$ 3.2 million with two sub-components as described below.
Sub-Component 2.1: Commercial promotion and access to information (US$ 2.2 million)
10. Sub-Component 2.1 aims to lay the groundwork for diversification of markets for Malian
products and increased access of professionals to the required market information. This sub-
component is allocated US$ 2.2 million or 76% of the resources of the component.
Activities to be financed concern inter alia: (i) market knowledge: organization of
commercial visits to West-Africa and the Maghreb, collection of data on the domestic market
for potatoes, onions and papayas, as well as on the domestic and regional markets for animal
and meat products, commercial tests for papayas on national urban markets, and marketing
tests for shallot powder and dried mango on the European market; (ii) commercial
promotion: participation in commercial events at regional and international levels; and (iii)
access to information: upgrade of the system for collection and monitoring of commercial
data, and systematic tally of results for each campaign.
Sub-Component 2.2: Quality improvement ofproducts and services (US$ 0.3 million)
11. Sub-Component 2.2's objective is to improve the competitiveness of Malian products and
facilitate their access to markets with high quality requirements. The cost of this sub-
component is estimated at US$ 0.3 million. The activities to be financed concern mainly: (i)
quality of goods: dissemination of information concerning quality standards and requirements
to meet these standards, as well as corresponding training of entrepreneurs; attention will be,
inter alia, on certification of enterprises and packaging of products and (ii) quality of
services: training of service providers as regards export quality standards to be adhered to,
strengthening of the capacity of the government technical services to certify planting and
seeding material, and support to ACDP participant enterprises in their negotiations with
partners.
Component 3 - Access to financing (US$ 2.6 million)
12. Component 3's main objective is to improve access to funding of operators in the agriculture,
livestock and fishery V/Cs targeted by the Project. Improving access to funding is a key
element for the viability and sustainability of private investments, in complement to the
matching grant funding designed as an incentive to cover the initial risks of investment
28


﻿operations. Component 3 also aims to provide resources for the operation of the IIF and the
Guarantee Fund, so that these programs can be efficiently and effectively managed.
Component 3's allocation to the AF amounts to US$2.6 million. Its activities are distributed
over the two sub-components described below.
Sub-Component 3.1 - Management of the IIF (US$ 1.3 million)
13. The objective of this sub-component is to ensure an efficient management of the IIF, for the
benefit of the sub-project promoters financed under Sub-Component 1.1. The challenge is to
ameliorate the quality and management of the IIF sub-project portfolio. This will be achieved
by appropriate selection of promoters and increased assistance to them, with a view in
particular to helping micro-enterprises transform into larger SME-type enterprises.
The activities to be financed under Sub-Component 3.1 concern: (i) the continued application
of the FII operational manual; (ii) the upgrade of sub-project processing standards and
procedures, including the use of high-performance computer packages; (iii) the capacity
building of service providers helping to design and prepare the sub-projects; and (iv) the
preparation of a sub-project technical audit at the end of the project.
Sub-Component 3.2 - Technical Assistance for credit access facilitation (US$1.3 million)
14. Technical assistance under Sub-Component 3.2 aims to facilitate promoters' access to
commercial funding, and to efficiently manage and make full use of the Guarantee Fund
creating under ACDP. The activities to be financed under this sub-component are to: (i)
provide technical support to entrepreneurs as they apply to commercial banks for funding; (ii)
strengthen the financial management capacity of these entrepreneurs, including financial
reporting; (iii) build the capacity of commercial bank staff so that they better understand
agriculture development, including development of the required financial instruments (e.g.,
risk sheets for targeted V/C products); and (iv) manage the Guarantee Fund and ensure that it
be transferred over to appropriate institutions when the Project terminates.
Component 4 - Market-oriented infrastructure (US$ 2.5 million)
15. Originally, this component covered both rural roads in cotton areas and commercial facilities,
with the bulk of the funding earmarked for rural roads. Since the targeted rural roads are
completed, the focus of the AF extension is solely on expansion and management of
commercial facilities. Component 4 aims to upgrade existing commercial facilities, construct
new ones and ensure that they are managed as private entities.
Component 4 amounts to US$ 2.5 million or a 77% increase vs. the initial phase. Its
activities, distributed over two sub-components, are described below.
Sub-Component 4.1 - Construction of commercial facilities (US$ 2.5 million)
Sub-Component 4.1 objective is to upgrade commercial facilities and construct new ones.
The upgrading concerns existing facilities, particularly the Bamako export terminal (PLAZA)
and the multi-market platforms of Sikasso and Niono. The new facilities include two
marketing platforms for vegetables designed for the local markets (Kayes and Mopti), a cold
storages for potatoes (Kati) and for meat (Mopti, S6gou and Sikasso), a processing and
packaging center for shallots (Bandiagara), a small animal slaughter house (Konna),and six
29


﻿small market areas for mangoes and meat (in different producing locations).  For each
facility, Sub-Component 4.1's funding will cover: (i) the preparation of the required
feasibility studies, including procurement plan and socio-environmental analysis; (ii) the
construction costs; and (iii) the technical follow-up and surveillance of contractors' work as
during the construction process.
Sub-Component 4.2 - Management of commercial facilities (US$ 0.1 million - managed and
included in Component 2 budget)
16. Great care and attention will be given to setting up efficient management of the facilities
upgraded and/ or constructed under Component 4. The objective is to design appropriate
management systems under Public Private Partnerships (PPPs), ensuring thereby that the
facilities are managed as private entities and gradually transferred over to private operators.
Sub-Component 4.2 consists of the following activities: (i) prepare the studies regarding the
required management systems, (ii) negotiate and implement delegated management contracts
with interested private operators; and (iii) ensure that socio-environmental safeguards are
adhered to, concerning staff employment and environmental aspects particularly.
Component 5 - Project management, and Monitoring & Evaluation (US$ 1.8 million)
17. Component 5 aims to ensure the efficient and transparent coordination and management of
project activities. Its challenge lies in: (i) appropriate monitoring and evaluation of project
results; (ii) improved communications regarding project achievements, and dissemination of
lessons arising from project implementation; and (iii) ownership on the part of interested
parties so that they may gradually take over as project activities are phased out. Component
5 is structured in 4 sub-components as described below.
Sub-Component 5.1- Project coordination and management (US$ 1.45 million)
18. The objective is the continued efficient administrative, financial and technical coordination
and management of project activities. This is predicated on the continued operation of the
small high-level Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
19. Sub-Component 5.1's major activities are to: (i) organize periodic field supervision missions
(at intervals of no less than twice a year); (ii) prepare and execute the annual project budget,
including the annual procurement plan; (iii) reinforce the logistical and technical capacity of
the PCU, including capacity building of PCU staff, as well as capacity building of the staff of
counterpart government bodies in charge of agriculture and irrigation development that are
partners in project execution; (iv) prepare the required project financial statements and
internal audits of project expenditures; (v) prepare and disseminate findings of project-
commissioned strategic studies (e.g., Mali's Horticulture Strategy) to ensure that strategic
plans are implemented; and (vi) elaborate and implement a strategy to devolve
responsibilities for project activities to concerned V/C and other private parties.
30


﻿Sub-Component 5.2 - Monitoring & Evaluation (US$ 0.1 million)
20. Sub-Component 5.2's objective is to monitor project activities and evaluate their impact,
prominently regarding the development of economic activities in targeted V/Cs.
21. Sub-Component 5.2's activities are as follows: (i) update systematically all relevant data
regarding project outputs and impacts (in reference to the Results Framework); (ii) conduct
any relevant studies permitting to capitalize on project results; (iii) prepare the periodic
progress reports on project implementation, including the environmental and social impact
reports; and (iv) organize, as needed, all supervision missions designed to ensure due follow-
up and monitoring of project activities.
Sub-Component 5.3 - Communications (US$ 0.15 million)
22. Sub-Component 5.3's objective is to inform the targeted population, and the public at large,
of project achievements.
23. Sub-Component 5.3's activities are to: (i) update the project communication strategy; (ii)
update and expand the ACDP website; (iii) edit and disseminate all project-produced manuals
and guides concerning targeted V/Cs (technical and socio-economic references, guide and
kits of best practices, posters, etc.); (iv) produce and disseminate a film showing projects
results as well as similar TV footage; (v) ensure the continued preparation and publication of
project bulletins; (vi) create a network of journalists affiliated to the Project; and (vii) ensure
adequate media coverage of project activities, in part through collaboration with national and
regional media networks including partner community radio networks.
Sub-Component 5.4 - Supervision and control (US$ 0.1 million)
24. Sub-Component 5.4's objective is to take stock of the project physical and financial
execution, and propose remedial measures to improve project implementation.
25. Sub-Component 5.4's activities are to: (i) organize the meetings of the Project Steering
Committees, particularly the meetings designed to approve the annual work plan and budget
and the annual progress reports; (ii) ensure participation of the members of the Steering
Committees to joint World Bank - Government supervision missions; (iii) organize study
tours and visits of sub-projects by the members of the national/ regional and IIF approval
committees; and (iv) prepare and conduct any seminars, workshops and study tours, for the
benefit of the members of the national steering committee and other interested parties.
31


﻿MALI-Agriculture Competitiveness and Diversification Project (ACDP) -
Additional Financing
Annex 5 Economic and Financial Analysis
Summary of the Economic and Financial Analysis
1. Methodology. An analysis of the different investments anticipated under ACDP's AF phase
was performed to assess their economic and financial impacts for the beneficiaries
individually and for the country as a whole. The results were compared with those of the
initial phase.
2. During the AF phase, ACDP continues to be designed as a 'framework' program for selected
value chains (mangoes, onions/shallots, potatoes and live animals mainly) with the main
objective to support their corresponding production both for export and the domestic/
regional market. Hence the Project's focus both on: (i) V/C level structural investments and
capacity building, and (ii) investments in individual enterprise-level production and
processing activities (the 'sub-projects') of strategic relevance for the V/Cs. These activities
are supported by the Matching Grant Program (MGP). The benefits of the V/C level
structural investments under (i), associated with capacity building, are clearly positive, but
difficult to assess. No attempt has been made to quantify these benefits under the present
analysis. In terms of the enterprise-level investments, the Project, through the MGP, provides
matching grants to investors with a view to supporting investments in new technologies,
developing new markets and facilitating access to commercial bank credit. The process is
demand-driven. Therefore, it is difficult to know precisely ex-ante who will benefit from
project support. For the sake of sizing project costs, however, an attempt has been made to
estimate the number of project beneficiaries together with a typology of enterprises they are
likely to implement. The costs and revenues of these enterprises were based on the technical-
economic references (RTEs) and other databases that the Project developed during the initial
phase. This has made it possible to compute the NPV and IRRs of individual enterprises, and,
on that basis, the NPV and IRR for the project as a whole, using reliable field data reflecting
project circumstances.
3. Analysis of enterprise-level investments. The results of the financial analysis of enterprise-
level investments are encouraging. Although each recommended technology demands new
skills and increased spending on inputs, the analysis shows that these investments can lead to
large gains in individual enterprise gross margins. The IRRs for individual enterprises range
from 23% for papayas to 73% for dried mangoes. The main sub-project enterprises are
extremely profitable: (i) shallots/ onions: 63%, (ii) mangoes: 33%, (iii) potatoes: 52%, and
(iv) fattening of live animals: 58%. The analysis also reveals that the matching grants
planned under ACDP will help in significant ways to improve the enterprise cash-flow and
lead directly to increased incomes during the critical financial period when producers/
processors are just getting started with the new activities. Measures to screen individual
investment proposals are critical to ensure that the enterprise-level investments approved
under ACDP continue to be economically justified. Hence the need to strictly adhere to the
32


﻿procedures laid out in the MGP Operating Manual. This manual is being revised to better suit
the needs of the new portfolio of sub-projects.
4. Overall project profitability measures. The Net Present Value (NPV) in economic terms for
enterprise-level investments computed at a 10% discount rate is approximately US$ 6.5
million. This compares with the actual amount of investments estimated at US$ 6.6 million.
The ERR for the entire project is estimated at about 16.5 %. This result compares somewhat
favorably with the ERR of the initial phase, estimated at about 16%. The sensitivity analysis
was first performed based on an increase by 10%, 20% and 30% of project costs (other than
enterprise-level investments). This analysis gives rates of return of 14.3%, 13.5% and 12.7%
denoting robustness to increase in project investments costs. The sensitivity to a decrease of
10%, 20% and 30% in the gross margin of participant investors gives rates of return
respectively of 14.1%, 13.1% and 12.0%. This is evidence of robustness of the project IRR
to the increase in the cost of project investments, and the decrease in the revenues received
by investors arising from a combined production volume and price decrease.
Methodology
5. The ACDP Additional Financing (AF) will focus on completing and consolidating the work
initiated during the Project's initial phase, in terms of institutional support and capacity
building of targeted V/Cs. The AF will provide financial and socio-economic benefits to
beneficiaries in the targeted VCs in the regions and to the national economy. Due to the
difficulty to measure and quantify the direct benefits of the Sub-Component 1.2 (Inter-
Professional Organizations capacity building), Component 2 (Improvement of performances
of agricultural value chains) and Component 3 (Access to financing) focusing respectively on
capacity building and enabling financial access, no cost benefit analyses have been
conducted for these components. Only real/direct measurable benefits were taken into
account under Sub-Component 1.1 (Dissemination of techniques and technologies and
support to investment sub-projects under the Matching Grant Program for the purpose of the
Project's analysis. Component 4 (Market-oriented infrastructure) has been analyzed
separately.
6. Since enterprise-level investments under Sub-Component 1.1 are to be demand- driven and
based on a participatory approach, the type and size of investment sub-projects are not
known with any degree of precision beforehand. The analysis therefore relies on hypotheses
concerning the categories and types of sub-projects financed. In that sense, it is illustrative.
The analysis will be reviewed as project implementation unfolds and as requests for sub-
projects are collected. Although illustrative, the analysis conforms as closely as possible to
real conditions as it considers enterprise models based on the RTEs are. Indeed, it builds on
the project-developed technical and economic database (the Technical and Economic
References - RTEs, developed by PCDA during the first phase) on the different crop
enterprises supported by the Project based on real regional and country circumstances. These
data are based on actual results in both experimental conditions and farmers' fields, and are
therefore reliable. This will ensure that sub-projects selected and funded are financially and
economically viable.
33


﻿7. The Cost Benefit Analysis carried out for Sub-Component 1.1 is based on ten models of
commodity value chains development as shown in Table 1. These models are based on the
RTE that were tested by the Project: Model 1,1 ha of onions; Model 2,4 ha of mangoes;
Model 3,1 ha of potatoes; Model 4,2 ha of papayas, Model 5, 30 cows; Model 6, 10 cows for
milk production; Model 7, onion storage; Model 8: dried mangoes; Model 9: milk
production; and Model 10: dried onions.
Table 1: Sub-project categories and gross margin (GM)
Sub-    Area Planted    GM
projects     (ha)       (FCFA)       Total GM (FCFA)
(Nb.)
Type of Sub-projects            Year  Year                Year 1      Year 2
1      2
Irrigated Production           95
1 Shallots/ onions               20     10     20   3 630 040  36 300 400  72 600 800
2 Mangoes (IA)                    30    50    120     245800    12290000   29496000
3 Potatoes (Asp)                  25    20     50     966240    19324800   48312000
4 Papayas                         20    10     40    7 39 415   7 394 150  29 576 600
Animal Production              30
5 Cattle fattening (30 oxen)             8     15    1 156500   9252000     17347500
6 Milk production (10 cows)              8     15    1 444710   11 557680  21 670650
Processed/conserve             75
products
7 Shallot/potato storage                15     25   3 875 500  58 132 500  96 887 500
8 Mango dryer ATESTA                     8     15    1 087 000  8 696 000   16305 000
9 Milk processing                        8     15  19382900    155063200  290743500
10 Shallot processing                    10     20     808 000   8080000    16 160 000
Total                         200       1                   326 090 730  639 099 550
8. The analysis is based on current market prices for the financial analysis. Economic price has
been estimated from wholesale or FOB prices after deduction of intermediary costs. Since in
Mali, taxes on inputs and subsidies are quasi-inexistent economic and financial analysis are
very similar. However, the financial analysis will be run taking into account the matching
grant without which dissemination and adoption of new technology will be difficult in the
context of Mali with strained economic condition and difficulties to access to credit in
general and long term investment credit in particular. The matching grant targets small
farmers and will cover about 70 % of the infrastructure cost.
Financial results at individual enterprise level
9. Based on these assumptions, the investments will provide without matching grant the
financial internal of return ranges from 23% (papayas) to 73% (dried mangoes) (see Table 2
below). The main sub-project enterprises are extremely profitable: (i) shallots/ onions: 63%,
(ii) mangoes: 33%, (iii) potatoes: 52% and (iv) fattening of live animals: 58%. The analysis
also reveals that the matching grants planned under ACDP will help in significant ways to
improve the enterprise cash-flow and lead directly to increased incomes during the critical
financial period when producers/ processors are just getting started with the new
34


﻿activities/technologies. Measures to screen individual investment proposals are critical to
ensure that the enterprise-level investments approved under ACDP continue to be
economically justified. Hence the need to strictly adhere to the procedures laid out in the IIF
Operating Manual. This manual has been revised to better suit the needs of the new portfolio
of sub-projects.
Table 2: Returns on enterprise-level investments
Improved capacity for technologies and
agricultural practices
MODEL 1                              Onion (1.0 ha)
IRR                                     63.21%
NPV (at 12%) (CFAF)                   12,703,969.4
MODEL 2                              Mango (1.0 ha)
IRR                                     33.03%
NPV (at 12%) (CFAF)                    7,485,606.1
MODEL 3                              Papaya (1.0 ha)
IRR                                     22.74%
NPV (at 12%) (CFAF)                    4,407,710.4
MODEL 4                                  Potato
IRR                                     52.29%
NPV (at 12%) (CFAF)                    6,531,530.8
MODEL 5                             Embouche bovine
IRR                                     57.67%
NPV (at 12%) (CFAF)                    7,072,736.7
MODEL 6                                  Milk
IRR                                     54.70%
NPV (at 12%) (CFAF)                    8,023,955.2
MODEL 7                               Stored Onion
IRR                                    69.58%%
NPV (at 12%) (CFAF)                   20,514,793.1
MODEL 8                               Dried mango
IRR                                     72.51%
NPV (at 12%) (CFAF)                    4,808,050.2
MODEL 9                                  Milk
IRR                                     66.46%
NPV (at 12%) (CFAF)                   94,108,719.0
MODEL 10                              Dried Onion
IRR                                     37.19%
NPV (at 12%) (CFAF                     3,379,060.4
35


﻿Overall project economic analysis
10. Project activities will lead to increased benefits and reduced costs as follows. The Project
focuses on agricultural products which have a competitive advantage on the international and
regional markets and can be easily sold on the national market as well. In terms of benefits,
Sub-Component 1.1 will contribute to improve adoption of production and procession
technology through the MGP. Sub-Component 1.2 is expected to strengthen the capacity of
Inter-Professional Organizations in the targeted Value Chains (V/Cs). Component 2 is
expected to create an enabling environment for commercial production, improving the
investment climate thereby increasing investment by attracting private investors either
national or international in the rural sector, and reinforcing private capacities to respond to
market opportunities and improving the competitiveness of Malian agricultural products by
building the capacity of service providers, public as well as private actors. Component 3 is
expected to facilitate access to capital and financial services for the various private actors and
operators involved in the V/Cs and strengthening the current agriculture credit market in
Mali. It entails particularly inducing and helping financial intermediaries (banks, micro-
finance institutions) build their capacities, increase their outreach and ability to respond to
the needs of the various actors along the value chain (producers, traders, processors,
transporters, etc) by offering a wider range of financial services. Component 4 (Market-
oriented infrastructure will provide resources to carry out an investment program aimed at
improving basic commercial and communication infrastructure, in order to improve linkages
to markets and reduce transaction costs. It will facilitate the creation of export facilities,
collection centers, storage and processing facilities to support the development of agricultural
value chains and improve their competitiveness.
11. Table 3 presents the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and Net Present Value (NPV) at 10% of
AF activities. The economic analysis shows an overall high economic rate of return of about
16.5%. This high rate is explained by the yields increase due the improvement of techniques
and technologies scheme and the availability of market facilities provided under the Project.
The NPV is based on a discount rate of 10 percent, taken as the long-term opportunity cost of
the capital in Mali. The above results are conservative since it is based on Sub-Component
1.1 (Matching Grant Program to fund enterprise-level sub-projects) and do not take into
account the benefits expected from other components.
Table 3: Project economic and financial NPV (in US$ million)
Economic                  Financial
ERR          NPV           IRR         NPV
Base case                      16.54%                     17.52%
Switching value (at 10%)                      5.2                       6.5
12. The sensitivity analysis is based on estimated switching values (a change in the value of key
factors that lowers the ERR to 10 percent). Table 4 indicates the rates of return for different
hypotheses. For the models as a whole, economic benefits are less sensitive to an increase in
the cost of investments that will occur at the beginning at the 20-year lifespan of the scheme.
36


﻿Table 4: Sensitivity analysis
Financing Analysis  Economic Analysis
10% of cost increase                   15,60%               14,69%
15% of cost increase                   14,75%               13,86%
20% of cost increase                   13,96%               13,10%
30% of cost increase                   12,55%               11,73%
10% of benefit decrease                15,40%               14,50%
15% of benefit decrease                14,32%               13,46%
20% of benefit decrease                13,23%               12,40%
30% of benefit decrease                10,98%               10,21%
Benefit acfruing one year late         14,58%               13,80%
Assumptions:
* Costs = Sub-Component 1.1 + Component 4)
* Revenues: additional gross margin from sub-project investments
* 20-year planning horizon
37


﻿Annex 6. Financial Management Action Plan
No     Action                               Date due by            Responsible
1    Conclude with AGETIPE and            Before contract        PCU/AGETIPE
AGETIER contracts clarifying their   execution
roles and responsibilities as delegated
execution agencies including FM
arrangements to facilitate coordination
and financial reporting with the PCU.
2    Update the current procedure manual to  Done                PCU
AF activities especially the new
decentralized approval process of sub-
projects
3    Finalize the recruitment of the      One month after        PCU
accountant at PCU level              effectiveness
4    Recruit a senior accountant fully    One month after        PCU
dedicated to manage the matching grant  effectiveness
program and facilitate the validation
process of subprojects
5    Recruit an internal auditor to carry out  Two months after  PCU
ex-posts review of the projects      effectiveness
transactions as well as the ones done by
the delegated execution agencies
6    Ensure external auditor TORs will take  Three months after  PCU
into account the sub-project         effectiveness
decentralized approval process and the
project activities delegated to AGETIPE
and AGETIER
38


﻿MALI - Agriculture Competitiveness and Diversification Project (ACDP)
Additional Financing
Annex 7. Procurement Arrangements
Capacity assessment
1. The Bank has assessed the country procurement regulation and found the principles and
most of the procedures in compliance with Bank standards for procurement. Nevertheless,
further strengthening of public procurement continues. The focus has progressively shifted
from reforming the legal and regulatory framework to focusing on strengthening the
procurement capacity and the transparency of the procurement system. In this regard the
Government has taken the following steps: (i) adopted of an action plan based on the finding
of the 2007 Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR), (ii) set up a new legal and
regulatory framework under the new procurement Code, and (iii) issued procurement
regulations and Standard Bidding Documents. A Regulatory agency for public procurement
has also been created and procurement units have been established in some regions and
ministries, including the Ministry of Agriculture. However, in order for NCB procedures
for goods and works to become acceptable to the Bank, some special provisions will be
required, regarding small contracts, advertisement, access for foreign bidders to participate
in NCB, limitation of domestic preference, deadlines for submission of bids, evaluation and
contract award process, standard bidding documents, fraud and corruption clauses in
bidding documents, inspection by the Bank, and obstructive practices, and debarment under
national system.
2. In order to enable the use of national procedures and standard bidding documents for NCB,
some adjustments should be made to align national procedures with those of the Bank.
These adjustments include the following provisions:
a) Even though the Code does not apply to small contracts, the procedures will require that
for such contracts, a competitive method be used;
b) In addition to the advertisement through a General Procurement Notice in the United
Nations Development Business (UNDB) on-line and on the Bank's external website, bids
will be advertised in national widely circulated newspapers;
c) All eligible firms, including foreign bidders, shall be allowed to participate in NCB
procedures;
d) No domestic preference will be granted to domestic bidders or bidders from the West
African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) countries and for domestically
manufactured goods;
39


﻿e) Bidders will be given at least four weeks to submit bids from the date of availability of
the bidding documents;
f) The evaluation and award process of alternative bids will be revised to be concordant
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines;
g) Procurement entities will use appropriate standard bidding documents acceptable to the
Association;
h) Each bidding document and contract financed out of IDA      financing will include
provisions on matters pertaining to fraud and corruption as defined in paragraph 1.16 (a)
of Procurement guidelines;
i) In accordance with paragraph 1.16 (a) of procurement guidelines, each bidding document
and contract financed out of the proceeds of the Financing Agreement will provide that:
(i) Bidders, suppliers, contractors and subcontractors will permit the Association, at its
request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the bid submission and contract
performance, and to have such accounts and records audited by auditors appointed by the
Association, and (ii) Any deliberate and material violation by the bidder, supplier,
contractor or sub-contractor of such a provision may be described as obstructive practice,
as defined in paragraph 1.16 (a) (v) of the Procurement Guidelines; and
j) The Association may recognize, at the request of the borrower, any exclusion from
participation as a result of debarment under the national system, provided that the
debarment is for offenses involving fraud, corruption or similar misconduct, and further
provided that the Association confirms that the particular debarment procedure afforded
due process and that the debarment decision is final.
3. The proposed AF will build on the experience accumulated with the implementation of the
original project, to ensure that the constructions managers play their full intended role as the
Project technical advisors and "engineer". As indicated in the implementation arrangements,
for the proposed Additional Financing (AF), the management of infrastructure works
contract is delegated to AGETIER and AGETIPE. AGETIER will be used as a construction
manager only to finalize contracts for the upgrade of the of centralization poles of cold
infrastructure of potato and shallot respectively in Sikasso and Niono. The AF will use
AGETIPE as a construction manager to perform all the others new infrastructures planned.
The PCU will process the other contracts such as the renewal of the contracts for (i)
technical assistance (international operators) and (ii) contracts for consultants, goods, non-
consulting services and works according to the approved procurement plan.
Assessment of the agencies' capacities to implement procurement
4. An assessment of the capacities of the implementing agencies to implement the procurement
activities linked to the proposed AF was carried out during October and December, 2012.
The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the project and in
40


﻿the one hand the interaction between the PCU, the constructions managers (AGETIER and
AGETIPE), in their responsibility for procurement, and in other hand the interaction
between the PCU, the technical structures and the ministry's relevant central unit for finance
and procurement (DFM).
5. The risk is considered as 'high' for the PCU and 'moderate' for AGETIER and AGETIPE.
The overall risk for procurement is estimated as 'substantial'.
6. Project Coordination Unit. The key risk identified for implementing procurement activities
under the project are: (i) the absence of an updated manual of procedures; (ii) the lack of
proficient procurement specialist for the moment. Recruitment of the new specialist is in
advanced stage. Interview for the selected candidates are scheduled to be completed by
mid-March 2013.
7. Implementing Agency of Infrastructure and Rural Equipment (AGETIER). The track
record of AGETIER as construction manager under the original project has been
unsatisfactory. Some infrastructures planned to be achieved during the first phase are not yet
completed. This situation is due mainly to the poor procurement process resulting of its
weak capacity. In the context of the AF, AGETIER will be used only to finalize the upgrade
of centralization poles of cold infrastructure of potato and shallot respectively in Sikasso
and Niono, through amendments to the ongoing contracts of the consultant and the
enterprises. The key risks identified for implementing procurement activities under the AF
are: (i) inadequate administration of contracts that may create delays on services delivery;
and (ii) the lack of adequate oversight of contracts management.
8. Implementing Agency of Public Works for Employment (AGETIPE). AGETIPE has been
identified as construction manager for the new   infrastructures.  AGETIPE has a
procurement unit with an experimented staff in Bank procedures but their workload may be
a challenge. The key risks identified for implementing procurement activities under the
project are: (i) insufficient staff number in procurement unit, in view of the possible
increasing number of procurement actions; and (ii) possible delays in taking procurement
actions like preparation of BD, RFPs, BER, TER, etc. due to the workload.
Risk Mitigation
9. The Table below summarizes key risks identified and proposed mitigation measures and/or
actions to be agreed upon to reduce the risk to 'moderate':
Project Coordination Unit
No.         Key risk               Mitigation Actions        By Whom         By When
Before effectiveness.
Appointment of a proficient                nere     statinesin
Lack of a proficient    procurement consultant (individual) PCU     .d    ar an
procurement specialist  through a competitive process to
support the project.                       process to conclude
support__the_project._end of March 2013.
41


﻿Implementing Agency of Works Infrastructure and Rural Equipment (A GE TIER)
No.           Key risks                 Mitigation Actions       By Whom          By When
Amendments to the contract of  AGETIER    Not later mid-March,
administration of  the consultant and the contracts          2013
Inadeuateof enterprises
1    contracts may create delays on
 services delivery          Close monitoring of the       AGETIER/    Throughout project
contracts execution on a                  life
monthly basis.
Lack of adequate oversight of  Designate a focal team to               Before the delegated
2                                 handle procurement and        AGETIER      contract management
the construction manager     cnrc    xcto                               intr
contract execution                        signature
Implementing Agency of Public Works for Employment (AGETIPE)
No.             Key risks                Mitigation Actions      By Whom          By When
. Not later than one
Insufficient staff number mn  .o .ae ha                                              n
Insurcient st     ner in  Hire at least one additional           month after the
1  procurement unit, in view of
the possible increased number  procurement specialist for the  AGETIPE  delegated contract
procurement unit                          management
of procurement actionssintr
signature
Designate a team of qualified
staff to handle procurement   AGETIPE     Before the delegated
Possible delays in taking    Close monitoring of
procurement actions like     procurement plan on a monthly             signature
2     preparation of BD, RFPs,     basis and closely monitor and  AGETIPE/
BER, etc. due to the workload  exercise quality control on all  PCU    Throughout project
of the Procurement Unit      aspects of the procurement
process, including evaluation,
selection and award.
Management of procurement process for the AF
10. Procurement arrangements. Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in
accordance with general Bank guidelines for procurement2, and the provisions stipulated in
the Legal Agreement. The Borrower will prepare and submit to the Bank a General
Procurement Notice (GPN) which will be in addition to the GPN of the Agricultural
Competitive and Diversification Project. The Borrower will publish this additional GPN in
United Nations Development Business (UNDB) online and in local newspapers of wide
national circulation. The Bank will arrange for its publication in UNDB online and on the
Bank's external website.
'Guidelines Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits & Grants by
World Bank Borrowers' dated January 2011 and the 'Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits & Grants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 2011, and the 'Guidelines On Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants' dated October 15, 2006 and revised in
January'
42


﻿11. Procurement Plan. The Borrower has developed a procurement plan for project
implementation which provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan will be
reviewed by the Bank. After approval by the Bank, it will be available at the offices of the
PCU, AGETIER and AGETIPE. It will also be available in the project's database and in the
Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the PCU
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements
in institutional capacity. All subsequent updates will be disclosed once they are approved by
the Bank.
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value      Procurement / Selection      Contracts Subject to
Category          Threshold (US$)             Method                   Prior Review
>500 000                   ICB                         All
Goods and Non-           <500,000                  NCB               None (Post review) unless
Consulting                                                            specified in the PP
Services
<50,000                 Shopping               None (Post review)
All values           Direct Contracting                All
> 200,000              QCBS/ Other3                    All
(QBS/FBS/LCS)
Consulting                                    CQS/ Other4
Services - Firms         < 200,000             (QBS/FBS/LCS)             None (Post Review)
All values                  SSS                        All
Consulting            All Values           IC - Qualification      None (Post review) unless
Services                                                             specified in the PP
Individual
Consultants (IC)        All Values                IC - SSS                      All
All TORs, regardless of the value of the contract and the selection method, are subject to prior
review.
ICB - International Competitive Bidding               QBS - Quality Based Selection
NCB - National Competitive Bidding                   FBS - Fixed Budget Selection
3 Shortlists for consultancy services for contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be
composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4 QBS, FBS, and LCS for assignments meeting requirements of paragraphs 3.2, 3.5, and 3.6 respectively, of the Consultant
Guidelines.
43


﻿QCBS - Quality and Cost-Based Selection method   CQS - Consultants' Qualification Selection
IC - Individual Selection method                 LCS - Least Cost Selection
SSS - Single Source Selection
12. Operational costs. Operating Costs financed by the project are incremental expenses arising
under the Project, and based on Annual Work Plans and Budgets approved by the
Association. Such costs may include office rent and maintenance, utilities (including
electricity, water and gas), communications (including telephone and internet charges),
equipment rent, operation and maintenance; office materials and supplies (stationary and
other consumables, but not the purchase of equipment), lease of vehicles, operation,
maintenance and repair, and travel and transport cost of the staff associated with project
implementation. These items will be procured by using the procedures detailed in the
Manual of procedures, which was reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.
13. Frequency of procurement supervision. In addition to the prior review supervision to be
carried out from Bank offices, the capacity assessment of the Implementing Agencies has
recommended one supervision mission to visit the field and to carry out post review of
procurement actions. The standard post-procurement reviews by Bank staff should cover at
least 15 percent of contracts subject to post-review. Post-reviews consist of reviewing
technical, financial and procurement reports on Project procurement actions by Bank staff or
consultants selected and hired by the Bank according to procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Project supervision missions shall include a Bank Procurement Specialist or a specialized
consultant.
14. Fraud, coercion and corruption. The implementing agencies as well as bidders and service
providers, (suppliers, contractors and consultants) shall observe the highest standard ethics
during the procurement and execution of contracts financed under the project in accordance
with paragraphs 1.16 and 1.17 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraphs 1.23 and 1.24
of the Consultant Guidelines, in addition to the relevant articles of the Mali Public
Procurement Code which refers to corrupt practices. Project's procurement activities will be
carried out in accordance with the 'Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants' dated 15
October 2006 and updated in January 2011. The 'Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants'
dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 ' shall apply.
44


﻿IBRD 33443R
MALI
o   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS              MAIN ROADS
o   PROVINCE CAPITALS                      RAILROADS
®   NATIONAL CAPITAL                        REGION BOUNDARIES
RIVERS                           - - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
5°W                           0°
0    100   200  300 Kilometers
'5 .                          I  I  I  I  I  I  I
\  Chenachane                      0   50  100  150  300 Miles
 -N                                                       25°N
El Mrelti
Slahba ra         De'se r t                 ALG E RIlA
To
Taoudenni
11 Poste Marice
T OM BO UCT OU Ubes
20°N                                                                           Tessalit                  20°N
MAURITANIA                                                                 K  DAL
Araouane                    J
Kidal
Tombouctou  Rharous
(Timbu                  Bourem  G A 0
TO
Kifael z        s                      Niafounke    Lac Nongay                Menoka
Tonda                              -
N5~  < ~  r   Nara    Nompala    Do            5         Ansongo
15°duSaálAbaba                                                                   15°N
5  O P T I Douentza                To Ni..ey
ayes                   0   Niono      Mopti  Bndiagara  r
KA YES  Nioo                -mN l G E R
Goudiry®j             Kh
B   0f1           Ségou ,Or            Oohgoa
Tan
Téoo         Kita                                T
Kéniéba  K  BAMAKO    Kowikoro              u      B U R K I,,N A
Koutiala                  ASi
Sigiri  Bougouni,
DISTRICT                  Sikasso
GUINE A        DEBAMAKO ,       IKAS SO,0       Diouasuo
To      BENIN 
Kankan                                                                           W
10°N    - - ..\                             Ko  g  .    --                                              10°N
G H'                                                   A                      s   -prdb
- HANAý,                                             Thi ..~pzo
S         wdorld Bonk The boundarim,
,  '.J   col-5, denarninations and
S i E R R A                                                                                   a    ""o(:~n shown"
LEONE t                         CóTE     D'IVOIRE                                             The"~dak
|-        or any endorsement or
10°W 5°W 0
MAY 2009


