        Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
        ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)



                                                                                                                 Report Number : ICRR0020143


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                     Project Name
 P081704                                        ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)

 Country                                        Practice Area(Lead)                                 Additional Financing
 Mali                                           Agriculture                                         P130873



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                        Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-40940,IDA-52270,TF-90855                         30-Jun-2012                                                              69,400,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  05-Jul-2005                                          30-Jun-2015

                                                              IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                           66,400,000.00                                                           0.00

  Revised Commitment                                            66,393,086.27                                                           0.00

  Actual                                                        66,328,457.29                                                           0.00




 Sector(s)
 Agro-industry, marketing, and trade(43%):Crops(24%):Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways(18%):General finance
 sector(8%):General public administration sector(7%)

 Theme(s)
 Other Private Sector Development(29%):Export development and competitiveness(29%):Rural markets(28%):Rural services and
 infrastructure(14%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator                Group
 Hassan Wally                       George T. K. Pitman                 Christopher David Nelson              IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
     The statement of objectives, as articulated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 4):
    "The project aims at fostering improvements in the performances of supply chains for a range of agricultural, livestock, fishery and
    gathering products, for which Mali has a strong comparative advantage."

    The statement of objectives, as articulated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA, p. 19):
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)



     "The objectives of the Project is to increase and diversify rural incomes through improvements in the performances of supply
     chains for agricultural, livestock, fishery and harvesting products for which the Borrower has a comparative advantage."

     This Review evaluates the project against the objectives as stated in the DCA.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     1. Demonstration and Dissemination of Irrigation, Post-harvest and Value-adding Technologies (appraisal cost:US$10.35 million,
     additional financing: US$12.76 million, actual cost: US$27.53). The component would support the demonstration and dissemination by
     private sector providers of low-cost, simple and adapted techniques and technologies to improve the production, productivity, processing
     and marketing of selected high value agricultural products. It included three sub-components:
     (a) demonstration and promotion of technological innovations, particularly through implementation of pilot-plots at farm level and the
     creation of demonstration centers at regional level;
     (b) development of private sector capacities to provide equipment, inputs and advisory services; and
     (c) dissemination of techniques and technologies and support to investment sub-projects, particularly through a matching grant
     mechanism.

     2. Improvement of Agricultural Supply Chains (appraisal cost: US$ 7.07 million, additional financing: US$3.20 million, actual
     cost: US$8.26 million). The component would aim to improve the organization and performances of agricultural supply chains, reinforce
     private sector capacities to respond to market opportunities and improve the competitiveness of agricultural products, both traditional and
     new high value products, for which Mali had comparative advantage. This would enable the country to diversify its export base and provide
     farmers with opportunities to generate new sources of income, thus reducing their exposure to risks. This component would support:
     (a) market research and improvement of the information base on supply chains,
     (b) improvement in supply chain organization and inter-professional dialogue, through institutional capacity-building and training;
     (c) promotion of private investment and improvement in the provision of private services;
     (d) quality and food safety management.

     3. Access to Financing (appraisal cost: US$ 2.93 million, additional financing: US$2.96 million, actual cost: US$4.16 million). This
     component would aim to facilitate access to capital and financial services for the various private actors and operators involved in the
     agricultural supply chains and strengthening the current agriculture credit market in Mali. It would include three sub-components:
     (a) Technical assistance for operators and financial institutions and reinforcement of their capacities to appraise and supervise sub-
     projects and operations in the sector. The aim would be to enable financial institutions to extend their offer of equity capital, agriculture
     related loans and other services, and increase the offer of financial services at competitive prices while improving their turn-over in this
     particular sector in a sustainable manner.
     (b) Technical assistance for the operation of a partial guarantee fund to help financial institutions engage more actively in the sector by
     providing partial guarantee coverage for loans. This fund would in priority guarantee medium terms loan for capital goods destined to
     farmers, agribusinesses and exporters.
     (c) Support to the creation and development of a range of financing instruments adapted to serve small farmers, artisans, service
     providers, rural entrepreneurs, agro-enterprises and agribusinesses.

     4. Market-oriented Infrastructure (appraisal cost: US$ 21.49 million, additional financing: US$3.34 million, actual cost: US$17.82
     million). This component would provide resources to carry out an investment program aimed at improving basic commercial and
     communication infrastructure, in order to improve linkages to markets and reduce transaction costs. It would facilitate the creation of
     export facilities, collection centers, storage and processing facilities to support the development of agricultural supply chains and improve
     their competitiveness, and carry out an emergency feeder road rehabilitation program which was critical for post-harvest and marketing
     operations. It would include two sub-components:
     (a) Construction of commercial infrastructure such as export facilities, cold chain equipment, storage facilities, pack houses, wholesale
     markets.
     (b) Rehabilitation of rural roads, particularly in cotton-growing areas, and access roads for postharvest, processing and commercial
     infrastructure built with the assistance of the project.

     5. Project Management and M&E (appraisal cost: US$ 5.61 million, additional financing: US$2.13 million, actual cost: US$11.45
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)



    million). This component would provide the resources necessary to ensure adequate project management, particularly overall
    coordination, financial management and procurement of goods and services, as well as monitoring of implementation and evaluation of
    results.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
    Project Cost. Total project cost at appraisal was estimated to be US$47.45 million. At completion the ICR (Annex 1) reported that total
    cost was US$71.8 million. The difference was due to US$20.00 million of IDA Additional Financing that the project received on March 4,
    2013.

    Financing. The Project was financed through an IDA Credit worth US$46.40 million. It also received IDA additional financing (AF) worth
    US$20.00 million. At completion the ICR (Annex 1) reported the total amount disbursed was US$66.40 million which represents 100% of
    both the original IDA Credit and the Additional Financing. While a Japan Policy and Human Development Fund (PHRD) TF Grant worth
    US$0.47 was reported under the project, the ICR (para 42) reported that "this grant has no relationship with the PDO, but the Ministry of
    Rural Development wanted to use the exiting PCU of (the project) to manage the resource." The Grant was to support Acacia plantations
    on 10,000 ha in Mali. The actual amount disbursed from the Grant was US$0.42 million.

    Borrower Contribution. At appraisal the borrower was expected to contribute a total of US$5.4 million of counterpart funds including
    US$1.0 million at appraisal and US$4.4 million at the Additional Financing stage. The ICR (Annex 1) reported the actual amounts was
    US$1.0 million of counterpart funds; while beneficiaries contributed US$4.8 million.

    Dates. The project was expected to close on June 30, 2012, but was extended for three years later to June 30, 2015. The reason for the
    three year delay stems mainly from a two year extension to implement activities under AF and a seven months suspension of activities
    due to the political turmoil that started on March 22, 2012. The project was restructured five times, all Level Two, as follows:
    1. On February 10, 2011 (amount disbursed was US$27.62 million) in order to modify the project’s intermediate result indicators due to
    larger sub-projects funded by the project than originally envisaged; reallocate the credit proceeds; and extended the closing date by six
    months to December 31, 2012 to compensate the project for the observed procurement delays.
    2. On November 7, 2012 (amount disbursed was US$37.24 million) in order to extend the closing date by six-month from December 31,
    2012 to June 30, 2013 and to request for a resumption of ACDP implementation activities, as allowed after the September 12, 2012
    decision of the Bank management on lifting the suspension and a gradual reengagement.
    3. On March 4, 2013 (amount disbursed was US$42.06 million) in order to provided AF of US$20 million equivalent and extended the
    project closing date by two years to June 30, 2015. In addition, the Project Paper for the AF introduced some changes to the indicators.
    4. On November 25, 2013 (amount disbursed was US$45.71 million) in order to extended the project second dated covenant provided in
    Section I.A.3 of Schedule 2 of the Financing Agreement from one month to three months after the effectiveness of the project. The
    convenient was about the contracting a field-based team for which the contracting was delayed due to the suspension by the World Bank
    of the then selected operator SOFRECO.
    5. On May 6, 2015 (amount disbursed was US$60.82 million) in order to make a reallocation of resources among categories that resulted
    in allocating unused funds to Category 3 (matching grant) from Category 1 (consultants, goods, services) which were earmarked to
    finance subprojects.
    The Mid-Term Review (MTR) was originally planned on November 11, 2008, however, it was carried out from May 20 to June 5, 2009,
    about six months later than expected.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

   In Mali growth in the agricultural sector continues to be constrained by low and irregular rainfall, poor and fragile soils, as well as generally low
   productivity because of the widespread use of traditional technologies. Economic infrastructure, particularly transport and communications, is
   weak and human capital is underdeveloped. Poverty levels in rural areas are three times higher compared to urban centers. The poorest of the
   population are rural households engaged in subsistence agriculture. The rural sector continues to be severely constrained by a number of
   factors including geography, climate, human capital, poor state of basic infrastructure and weak connection to markets.
   At appraisal objectives were highly relevant to the country conditions and in line with the Government priorities for the agriculture sector.
   Objectives were in line with Government's Master Plan for Rural Development (Sche'ma Directeur du De'veloppement Rural, 1992) which was
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)



  updated in 2001 for the period (2002-2010). This Plan called among other things to support agricultural services and producer organizations;
  development of rural infrastructure and farming equipment; promotion and improvement of the competitiveness of agricultural supply chains;
  stimulation of exports including: agricultural, forestry, livestock and fishery products; intensification and diversification of agricultural
  production; and reinforcement of food security. Objectives were also in line with the World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy
  (CAS) for Mali (2004-2006) which focused on three main objectives including promoting growth which according to the CAS (p. 29) was
  expected to be from diversification of the agricultural base into fruits, vegetables and Arabic gum, development of agri-business and
  transformation of agricultural products, among others.
  At completion objectives continue to be highly relevant to the Government priorities and country conditions. Objectives are in line with
  Government's current priorities for rural development as outlined in the National Agriculture Sector Investment Program (PNSIA, 2015) which
  include the transformation of family subsistence agriculture to market-oriented, family commercial agriculture and creation of synergies
  (agriculture, energy, irrigation, transport, and commerce) to promote private agricultural enterprises. Objectives are also in line with the World
  Bank Group's Interim Strategy Note for Mali (2014-2015) which reported that increasing the performance of the agriculture sector will be one of
  the “urgent priorities to ensure the resumption of economic activity.” Also the Systematic Country Diagnostic (SCD, 2015, p. 92)
  recommended that in Mali “the development of selected value chains are the most pressing issues.” Finally, objectives are in line with a recent
  World Bank study (Growing Africa: Unlocking the Potential of Agribusiness, 2013, p. 4) which reported that “Agribusiness can play a critical
  role in jumpstarting economic transformation through the development of agro-based industries that bring much-needed jobs and incomes.
  Successful agribusiness investments in turn stimulate agricultural growth through the provision of new markets and the development of a
  vibrant input supply sector.”
  Annex 5 of the second restructuring PP (Results Framework and Monitoring) stated the PDO as: “The project aims at fostering improvements
  in the performances of supply chains for a range of agricultural, livestock, fishery, and gathering products, for which Mali has a strong
  comparative advantage.” This was an improvement over the way the PDO was stated under the Results Framework and Monitoring section of
  the PAD, however, it was not formalized.




  Rating
  High


b. Relevance of Design

  Design included a broad statement of objectives that described the intended outcome, targeted beneficiaries and the project's approach to
  achieve the outcomes. However, the Results Framework did not provide clear connections between inputs, outputs and intended outcomes
  and it also included a PDO which is different from the one stated in the PAD as well as the one shown in the Legal Agreement which according
  to the ICR (para 123) lead to "confusion about the overall objectives (as well as key indicators) of the project." Also, the financial arrangements
  for the project financed facilities by the private sector were not clearly established at design.
  Design focused on a limited number of regions with high potential to conduct activities, however, it was ambitious and included the support of
  18 value chains (these were later reduced to 6 value chains in 2009 following the recommendation made at the Midterm Review). Design relied
  on holistic diagnosis of the chosen supply chains from farming and production to marketing. This allowed the identification of specific constraints
  and bottlenecks that could be addressed by the project rather than providing blanket support for the development of a supply chain. In addition,
  design sought to mitigate the risk associated with the transition to high value crops through promoting relevant technologies and facilitating
  access to both credit and markets.
  To achieve the stated objectives, design featured five components. The first would contribute to achieving the objectives through promoting low-
  cost, simple and adapted techniques and technologies to improve the production, productivity, processing and marketing of selected high value
  agricultural products. These activities were relevant and expected to improve productivity and post-harvest handling of targeted crops. The
  second component included activities that would improve the organization and performances of agricultural supply chains, reinforce private
  sector capacities to respond to market opportunities and improve the competitiveness of agricultural products, both traditional and new high
  value products, for which Mali had comparative advantage. These activities were relevant and would enable the country to diversify its export
  base and provide farmers with opportunities to generate new sources of income, thus reducing their exposure to risks. The third component
  would contribute to achieving the objectives through facilitating access to capital and financial services for the various private actors and
  operators involved in the agricultural supply chains and strengthening the current agriculture credit market in Mali. This activity was relevantt
  since access to credit is an important factor that would enable farmers and producers to adopt new technologies and improve their production.
  The fourth component would focus the provision of resources to carry out investments in basic commercial and communication infrastructure, in
  order to improve linkages to markets and reduce transaction costs. These activities were relevant and were expected to improve post-harvest
  handling and marketing of targeted crops in the project areas. The fifth component focused on the management of project activities. Overall,
  design included relevant activities that were well aligned and logically structured to support the achievement of the objectives. Design also
  featured much needed training activities—from farm level in handling improved equipment to processing and packaging of products which
  eventually enabled access to European export markets.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)




       Rating
       Substantial



   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     The objective as stated in the DCA was to: "Increase and diversify rural incomes through improvements in the performances of supply chains
     for agricultural, livestock, fishery and harvesting products for which the Borrower has a comparative advantage." The objectives as stated
     include two sub-objective:

     (a) to increase rural incomes; and

     (b) to diversify rural incomes.


    Rationale
    Outputs

        • The project partially financed 612 micro‐enterprises and SMEs compared to an original target of 300 and a revised target of 350. The
        majority of sub-projects went to papaya production (116) followed by mango (100), while cattle fattening and shallot production had 65 and
        64 sub-projects, respectively. Other financed sub-projects included: milk production (42), milk processing (8), meat processing (15), cereal
        processing (18), shallot processing (22), potato production (37), mango processing (24), cashew processing (4), tree nursery (2), and
        crafts (1).
        • As a result of the project activities, 5,248 jobs were directly created and benefitted the rural poor (ICR, para 99). However, it was not
        clear how many of these jobs were temporary and how many were permanent jobs that continued after project completion.
        • The project facilitated easier access to credit where actors in the agricultural value chains obtained credits of CFAF 983 million
        compared to a target of CFAF 1,100 million (89.4% of target achieved). In an environment where access to credit is limited, the project
        helped to improve the cash flow of enterprises participating in project activities.


    Outcome
    The absence of an outcome indicator to gauge rural incomes in project areas makes it difficult to assess the achievement of this sub-
    objective. Also, no house hold survey was carried out in project areas to provide a realistic picture on the impact of project activities on rural
    income. A comparison between rural incomes in project areas and outside project areas would have been helpful in assessing the impact of
    the project activities on rural income, however, this was not available. In addition, the data provided below reflected gross income for three
    targeted crops (potatoes, onions and papaya) and total combined productivity and value of production of mango, shallots and potatoes.
    However, total productivity might have also benefitted from the support provided from other development partners working outside project
    areas.
    The project reached 16,000 beneficiary (34% of which were women) compared to an original target of 7,000 and a revised target of 9,000.
    The project also partially financed 612 micro‐enterprises and SMEs and facilitated easier access to credit. However, 59 % percent (335
    subproject) of these joined the project portfolio in 2014, therefore their benefits was expected to appear only after the project completion. The
    ICR did not provide further details on the impact of such sub-projects on beneficiaries. According to the impact study (p. 43) the gross income
    of potato farmers increased from CFAF 157,900 in 2009 to CFAF 1,262,100 in 2012 (a net increase of 700%); of shallot/onion producers’
    gross income increased from CFAF 475,300 in 2006 to CFAF 884,400 in 2014 (an increase of 80%); and that of papaya farmers from CFAF
    460,500 in 2011 to CFAF 507,000 in 2014 (a modest increase of 10%). By project completion the total combined productivity of mango,
    shallots and potatoes reached 1.75 million metric ton compared to a revised target of 1.4 million metric ton and a baseline of 0.39 metric ton.
    The value of production of these three crops increased from a baseline of 49,500 million CFAF to 278,000 million CFAF compared to a
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)



    revised target of 230,000 CFAF. Despite the encouraging data, it is difficult to determine the impact of project activities on increasing rural
    income in project areas. Also, there was no counterfactual that would have helped identify the impact of exogenous factors affecting
    production and crop types.




    Rating
    Modest

PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 2

    Objective
     (b) to diversify rural income.

    Rationale
    Outputs
    Demonstration and dissemination of intensification and value-adding technologies

        • Under the guidance of the project the Centers of Demonstration, Dissemination, and Delivery promoted five new technologies and
        techniques of drip irrigation, corrugation irrigation, and spray irrigation, as well as eight technologies and techniques in processing shallots.
        However, it was not clear how many farmers/producers benefited from these technologies and what was the adoption rate.
        • The project facilitated the establishment of five sectoral inter-branch organizations for: mango, potato, shallot/onion, papaya,
        livestock/meat, However, these inter-branch organizations have not earned legal recognition. Also, it was not clear what role do these
        organization have in supporting value chains.
        • The project disseminated 17 kits (for best practices) for sub-projects, 26 Technical and Economic Guides and published 7 hands-on
        guides.


    Improving the performance of agricultural supply chains

        • By project completion 22 market information bulletins were disseminated compared to an original target of 20 and a revised target of 39
        (56% achievement of revised target).
        • Through project support 8 mango-exporting companies acquired Global Good Agricultural Practices (G.A.P.) certification. This was
        expected to enable these producers to access foreign export markets. Also, the project supported skills training of 9 Malian nationals for
        International Register of Certificated Auditors (IRCA) certification and 16 Malian consultants in Global G.A.P. to provide support services to
        businesses.
        • The project supported the preparation and dissemination of 4 quality standards on mango, potato, shallot, and meat, to actors of the
        value chains. Also, the project facilitated the understanding of value chains through the production and dissemination of various strategic
        documents, including 11 strategic development plans, 9 value chains competitiveness plans, 5 priority and 1 business intelligence system
        for mango, potato, shallot, and livestock meat value chains, with the support of inter-branch organizations. The collected commercial
        information was disseminated by cellphone Short Message Service (SMS).


    Access to financing

        • A partial guarantee fund was established and 32 credit files were approved for a total guarantee of CFAF 836 million against a forecast
        of CFAF 880 million. Recovery rate was 96% compared to a revised target of 94% (Target achieved).
        • The project financed 612 micro‐enterprises and SMEs through partial grants compared to an original target of 350 and a revised target
        of 550 (Target achieved).The project provided gave grants totaling CFAF 3,244 million to subprojects promoters, through the Innovation
        and Investment Fund. This necessitated contributions of up to CFAF 2,000 million from promoters.
        • The project facilitated easier access to credit where actors in the agricultural value chains obtained credits of CFAF 983 million
        compared to a target of CFAF 1,100 million (89.4% of Target achieved).
        • The project supported training for 4 experts from regional coordinating bodies and 16 Studies on Monitoring Structures (Structures
     Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
     ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)



  d’Etudes et de Suivi, SES) to use the management tools; and training of 100 members of financial institutions on the analysis of
  agricultural risk. Also, two studies on new financial products—collateral management and leasing were produced with project support.
  • The project promoted private investments and provided support to four private investment projects with ongoing implementation in joint
  venture as originally targeted. The four private investments included a commercial mango plantation of 200 ha (50 ha were already
  developed); a cardboard factory that produces packaging for agricultural products; a commercial plantation of 500 ha by the BAGOE
  company; and the development of 1,000 ha for the production of potatoes, rice, and powder by AGRIZED (Target achieved). The project
  also provided support to three private food companies, the first in their fight against fruit flies and the facilitation of the supply of raw
  materials while the other two in in their efforts to find strategic partners.


Market Oriented Infrastructure

  • By project completion 9 commercial infrastructure were implemented compared to an original target of 8 and a revised target of 21 (43%
  achievement of revised target). These include a cold storage and mango packaging facility, the shallot and potato centralization poles, an
  Improved Logistics Perimeter in the Airport Area, a Food Technology Laboratory, the Mandela packaging area, and three regional
  slaughterhouses. The impact study (p. 49) reported that the two infrastructures (PLAZA, mango packaging Centre) which each have an
  installed capacity of over 5,000 tons / year were hardly utilized. In addition, four private management delegation agreements were signed
  for the three rehabilitated slaughterhouses and Mandela commercialization area; a study was conducted to define the legal status and
  management arrangements of the Improved Logistics Perimeter in Airport Area; a consultant was recruited to support the process of
  private management of facilities; and a transitional management system was set up for the two packaging areas.
  • 1,101 km of rural roads were rehabilitated and transferred to the National Directorate of Roads, against a target of 1,100 km (Target
  achieved).


Outcome

  • The evidence and data provided in the ICR point to the success of the project in diversifying rural incomes. However, this was
  only gauged by a single proxy outcome indicator which assessed the increase in exports of three value chains supported by the project.
  The achievement of diversification could have been further verified through other indicators (see section 10 a), however, these were
  absent from the Results Framework. The impact of the project support was evident on two value chains (mango and shallots) while
  there was limited information on the other four chains.
  • The project promoted the use of adapted irrigation and processing technologies, compliance with the appropriate technological crop
  management programs including using quality seeds/seedlings, registered fertilizers and pesticides. These were combined with the
  improvement of the access to financing and access to markets. As a result of the new technologies and technical support provided by the
  project, productivity of selected crops improved. For example results from representative beneficiary farms showed that mango production
  increased from 10,000 kg/ha prior to project intervention to 17,500 kg/ha after project support, while potato increased from 10,500 kg/ha to
  21,000 kg/ha, shallots from 12,000 kg/ha to 26,000 kg/ha and papaya from 13,400 kg/ha to 26,000 kg/ha. The number of animals fattened
  annually per farm has increased nine fold. While there is no evidence that the quality of produce improved, it is notable that there was a
  significant increase in the volume of exported mango during the project years.
  • By project completion the total combined productivity of mango, shallots and potatoes reached 1.75 million metric ton compared to a
  revised target of 1.4 million metric ton and a baseline of 0.39 metric ton. The impact study showed that compared to the baseline situation,
  the average cultivated area per farm has increased from 0.95 ha to 3.08 ha for potatoes, 0.5 ha to 1 ha for shallot/onions and 0.3 ha to 1.5
  ha for papaya. This increase could be potentially attributed to improvement in technology promoted by the project that increased efficiency
  of land use, preparation and use of inputs including relatively reduced the level of toiling as well as improved irrigation efficiency.
  • The performance of the mango value chain notably improved as a result of project support. The impact study reported that the amount
  of mango marketed in regional and local markets registered a net increase of 668% in 2014 compared to its level in 2006. Access
  to foreign markets for the mango supply chain supported under the project also improved, for example, export of mango showed a net
  increase of 990% in 2014 compared to its level in 2006. In a further communication the project team explained that there was no other
  project during the same time working on diversification. However, attributing all these increments to project activities might not be accurate
  because it is possible that there were mango production areas outside the project area. Also, it is plausible to assume that the total area
  cultivated with mango in 2014 was more than 2006 and/or the existing orchards reached optimum productivity age.
  • The project also supported storage and conservation facilities. This particularly benefited shallot growers because it gave them the
  option to store their produce rather than selling at low market prices during peak harvest time. This enabled the farmers to sell at times
  when prices are higher and potentially improving farmers' income. The project also supported the introduction of papaya as a new crop to
  grow in Mali. This proved to be successful and there seems to be high demand for the locally produced papaya. The ICR did not provide
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                           Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)



    further details on how the project impacted the performance of other targeted value chains (potato, fattening of livestock, and milk),
    however, there were productivity gains reported. In a further communication the project team explained that the mango value chain
    received a lot of attention while intervention in other value chains targeted bottle neck areas.
    • To improve market infrastructure, the project financed 9 commercial infrastructure facilities and rehabilitated 1,100 km of rural roads.
    The ICR did not provide specific information on the impact of these investments. For example, how did road rehabilitation, food technology
    laboratory, slaughter houses and packaging facilities impact travel time, facilitate marketing, and reduce post harvest loses.




 Rating
 Substantial



5. Efficiency

Economic and Financial Efficiency
ex ante

  • A cost benefit analysis at the level of the whole project was carried out on the basis of (a) project and foreseeable private investment
  costs, and (b) expected project outcomes in terms of reduction in production costs (component 1) increased sales on domestic and export
  markets, and increased prices of exported products resulting from improved processing and marketing techniques.
  • For component 1, the analysis was based on farm models corresponding to the introduction of improved small irrigation (treadle pumps
  and drip irrigation systems instead of manual irrigation for farms between 0,15 and 0,20 ha cultivating tomatoes, onions, shallots or French
  beans; motorized pumps for larger farms of around 0,5 ha cultivating potatoes), and storage technologies (improved storage for potatoes and
  onions).
  • The analysis estimated the Financial Rate of Return ranging from 31% to 67% and from 68% to more than 400% with a matching grant at
  a 10% discount rate. While the Economic Rate of Return was estimated to range between 64% and 178% at 10% discount rate.
  • The analysis estimated the internal rate of return for the whole project at 16%. The same estimate was calculated at the Additional
  Financing stage.


ex post

  • With the grant, the FIRR at production level was estimated at 36.6% for shallot (Net Present Value NPV CFAF8,2 million at a 6% discount
  rate and a 25 year period), 62.4% for cattle fattening (NPV CFAF 32.5 million) , 73.5% for mango (NPV CFAF 58.5 million), and 134.4% for
  potato (NPV CFAF 39.5 million). At the processing/preservation level, the FIRRs were in the range of 75.4% for dried meat (NPV CFAF 67.4
  million), 82.2% for mango processed in juice (NPV CFAF 14.9 million), and 84.0%for preserved shallot (NPV,CFAF 13.0 million), all at 10%
  discount rate .
  • The Economic analysis of the whole project relied on the following assumptions: (a) the considered period was 25 years corresponding to
  the lifetime of mango orchards considered as investment with the longest life cycle; (b) 100% of the cost of Components 2 and 3 and 25
  percent of the cost of Component 1; (c) the cost of Components 4 and 5 was not considered; (d) 100% of the gross margin due to the project
  (financial prices of products were considered as similar to the economic prices due to the low level of exchanges of these products between
  Mali and other countries outside the West African Economic and Monetary Union [WAEMU]); (e) the labor economic cost corresponding to
  50% of the financial wage cost; (f) the opportunity cost of the selected long-term capital was 6% and (g) the cost conversion factors of the
  chosen project was 85%.
  • A sensitivity analysis was performed based on an increase of 10%, 20% and 30%of the project costs, profitability rates were of 14.1%,
  13.3%percent, and 12.5%, respectively. The sensitivity analysis was also conducted based on the margin due to the project of 10%, 20%
  and 30% compared to the gross margin of participating investors. It gave respective profitability rates of 14.0%, 12.9%, and 11.7%. When the
  advent of benefits were delayed by one or two years, the respective ERR was13.6% and 12.4%.
  • The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the whole project was estimated at 15%, and NPV of US$35.33 million at a 6% discount rate.
  • The analysis could have benefitted from some measure of cost effectiveness for the infrastructure component.


Administrative and Institutional Efficiency
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)



The project closed three years late beyond its expected date. This delays was due to a seven month suspension of activities after the political
turmoil in 2012 and two years extension to implement activities planned under the Additional Financing. In addition, there was a nine month
delay between Board approval and effectiveness. The project also suffered from minor implementation delays due to weaknesses in
procurement. Overall, however, administrative and institutional efficiency was satisfactory.
Overall, efficiency is rated substantial despite a slightly lower ERR at completion compared to appraisal.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                                 Rate Available?             Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                                100.00
 Appraisal                                                                  16.00
                                                                                                                Not Applicable

                                                                                                                100.00
 ICR Estimate                                                               15.00
                                                                                                                Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

Relevance of objectives is rated high while relevance of design is rated substantial. Efficacy of the first sub-objective is rated modest where it is
difficult to assess the impact of the project on increasing rural incomes due to the absence of relevant indicators. Efficacy of the second sub-
objective is rated substantial where the evidence points to the success of the project in diversifying rural incomes, however there were some
weaknesses. Efficiency is rated substantial.



a.      Outcome Rating
        Moderately Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

There are a number of concerns that impact the sustainability of the development outcome:

     • The project rehabilitated 1,101 km of rural roads, however, the arrangements for the maintenance of these roads is not clear. If these
     roads are not properly maintained, some benefits achieved under the project could be negatively affected, for example, access to certain
     markets, decreased travel time, and decreased post-harvest loses. While the ICR (p. 32) reported that the rehabilitated roads
     were transferred to the National Directorate of Roads, it was not clear if enough budget resources were available to cover road O&M.
     • Mali is a land locked country and this increases the export cost of its high value products due to air freight expenses or export via sea ports
     in neighboring countries. In 2010-2011 the political crisis in neighboring Cote D'Ivoir resulted in the shutdown of the port of Abidjan - a key
     outlet for export/import of goods accounting for 70% of Mali’s trade. This disrupted trade routes and alternative routes were more expensive.
     • There is a concern that countries with sea access might also compete and offer lower prices for the same Malian products.
     • The political situation continues to be fragile especially in Northern section of the country. The possibility of political turmoil and security
     concerns continue to be a major concern.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)




a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry

        • The project was a continuation of a series of Bank interventions in the agriculture sector. Lessons from these projects reflected in the
        project design included: adopting a holistic approach to supply chain development, market-oriented, private sector-led interventions, and
        sub-contracting and contracting- out the implementation to the private sector. Design focused on the most fertile areas for
        implementation given the potential for diversification and the concentration of unemployed rural poor. Design benefited from consultation
        with stakeholders at different levels, including with donors and private sector operators.
        • Design was over-ambitious and the target to support 18 value- chains for support proved to be so challenging that the number was
        reduced to 6 chains based on the MidTerm Review recommendation. While sector reforms were correctly supported, Borrower buy-in
        was overestimated and the delayed reforms meant that a project focus on cotton production had to be dropped and replaced with
        rehabilitation of rural roads in the cotton producing zone.
        • There was inconsistency with regards to the statement of objectives where the one in the Results Framework was different from the
        one shown in the PAD as well as the one shown in the Legal Agreement. According to the ICR (p.23) this led to "confusion about the
        overall objectives (as well as key indicators) of the project." In addition, the principles of the financial arrangements proposed for the use
        of project financed facilities by the private sector was not clear in the design.
        • Risks were correctly identified. Appraisal of procurement, however, underestimated institutional capacity and this subsequently led to
        delays.
        • M&E suffered from design weakness and implementation delays (see section 10a&b).



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Supervision missions were conducted twice per year and included a relevant skill mix that was needed for this multifaceted project.
     Supervision missions addressed implementation issues, visited subprojects sites, oversaw restructurings, reallocating funds to boost the
     matching grant facility, trimming the number of value chains supported, and revising output indicators to better reflect project activities. The
     project benefitted from the continuity in the Bank’s supervision team where only two TTLs served on the project. Also, the presence of the
     TTL in the country office was critical in providing implementation support and close follow-up of project activities. This arrangement also
     enabled dialogue during suspension of disbursement and facilitated a quick resumption of activities once suspension was lifted, particularly
     because the Bank supervision team was successful also in convincing the government to finance the project during disbursement
     suspension. The success of the team efforts was reflected in scaling- up the project and the approval of additional financing.
     Supervision provided active support and guidance to address weak performance from contracted service providers which ensured a smooth
     transition from the first batch of three-year contractors to the next. The team's efforts were also critical in convincing the government to
     bridge the gap between the project and the follow-on operation by financing the continuation of the PCU and its activities.
     However, supervision suffered from some weaknesses including the failure to address inconsistency of the development objectives across
     project documents early during implementation, and limited systematic attention to social issues until the Mid-term Review (MTR). Finally,
     the team should have addressed weaknesses in the implementation of M&E earlier in the project.



     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)



9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
  The Government and the Ministry of Agriculture were committed to the project. The Government facilitated stakeholders’ dialogue during
  project preparation and partnered with the Bank team in creating wide awareness about supply chain development. The Government
  ownership and commitment remained strong throughout implementation. The success of the project activities invited more support from
  different ministries within the Government. The Government ensured that the PCU was well staffed and it was supportive of the need for
  personnel changes and hiring experts to different positions within the PCU. It also provided the necessary budgetary support and raised its
  expenditure in agriculture. Further, the Government committed resources to finance the PCU and project activities until the end of
  December 2015. However, the Government could have acted earlier to avoid the delay between Board approval and effectiveness. Also,
  there were delays in the recruitment and contract renewal of private service providers due to inefficiencies in procurement at the Ministry of
  Agriculture. Also, the cotton sector reforms were not carried out which prompted the decision by the project team to drop the promotion of
  cotton and focus on road rehabilitation.



  Government Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
  The Ministry of Agriculture was responsible for implementing the project through a dedicated Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Despite
  delaying effectiveness by six months, the project benefitted from quality selection of the management team through a competitive
  process. The PCU participated in Bank supervisions and provided the necessary coordination for the regular meetings of the national
  and regional committees. It also oversaw the M&E database, but with delays in its implementation and produced several
  communications materials to promote the project. The PCU provided relevant M&E, fiduciary, and safeguard documents for Bank review.
  The PCU monitored and evaluated the private service providers and managed contracts to ensure continuation of activities and hired
  specialists in infrastructure, irrigation, and processing as the need arose during implementation. However, cooperation and coordination
  of the private sector with the PCU suffered due to limited capacity within the PCU. Finally, there were weaknesses in procurement
  capacity and management that resulted in implementation delays.



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating
  Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
  M&E design featured a decentralized system that relied on regional operators recruiting specialists for each region. Design also
  ensured collaboration with other agencies such as the Rural Economy Institute of Bamako that was in charge of carrying out the baseline
  study. M&E specialist at the national level was responsible for compiling and analyzing data from the regions. Arrangements for M&E
  management were appropriate for the project needs.
  To assess the project objective, the Results Framework included two key outcome indicators: one was geared towards gauging
  diversification through assessing broader range and increased volume of agricultural products marketed in Mali, and the other gauges the
  impact impact of project on macroeconomic indicators, however, there were limited details on these indicators. The project
  could have benefited from the inclusion of an indicator that assessed the impact of activities on rural income directly. Also, for
  diversification it would have been useful to include a true indicator of crop diversification through measuring the share of land devoted to
  high value crops promoted by the project in each targeted area and complement this with measuring the share of the targeted value
  chains in the overall value of agricultural output before and after the project intervention. A House Hold survey on a representative
  sample in project areas to assess the participation of smallholders in growing high value crops could have provided a better
  understanding of incentives needed for this group to adapt diversified cropping.
  Design also include seventeen intermediate outcome and/or output indicators to assess achievements under the five project components.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)



   However, most of these seemed quantitative and focusing mainly on providing numbers, for example: number of supply chains, number
   of private investments, number of new financing instruments, among others.




b. M&E Implementation
   M&E suffered from long delays and was only fully functional by 2008-2009. The Baseline was also established in 2008-2009 rather than 2006
   as envisaged. Once operational, the M&E system delivered a dynamic database of characteristics and techno-economic results of supported
   subprojects; technical implementation, M&E, and annual reports; three impact analysis reports; environmental monitoring reports; and reports
   to support over 30 field supervision missions in the region. However, M&E was weak on the evaluation side. The Results Framework was
   revised at the Level 2 restructuring on February 10, 2011 where some of the project’s intermediate result indicators were modified. The new
   set of key performance indicators focused on the number of beneficiaries and value and volume of production for three selected value chain
   produces (mango, shallot and potatoes).




c. M&E Utilization
   M&E provided important data that was used by the PCU to prepare the project report. The system also provided critical data and input in
   communication of project results. M&E database provided considerable information to the general public, summarized in tables and M&E
   reports were made available to the public through a website. Also, the Bank implementation support missions relied on progress reports
   prepared based on the M&E system. Despite design shortcomings, M&E data was used to inform project management decisions, for
   example: the decision to focus on six value chains was informed by M&E data and MTR recommendation. There was limited M&E on four
   out of six value chains supported by the project. Also, it was difficult to assess the impact of the project on increasing rural incomes due to
   the poor design of indicators.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as environmental category 'B' under Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01), and triggered two other
   safeguard policies: Pest Management (OP 4.09) and Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12). An Environmental and Social Impact
   Assessment (ESIA) was prepared where impacts were analyzed and addressed through the Environmental and Social Management
   Framework (ESMF).
   Environmental Assessment (OP4.01). The Environmental and Social Management Plan prepared for the original project provided
   guidance on management and mitigation measures for environmental and social impacts of the subprojects, such as road rehabilitation and
   construction of processing facilities. According to the ICR (para 52) "the environmental and social mitigation measures summarized in the
   Environmental and Social Management Framework, Project Management Plan, and the Resettlement Policy Framework, as well as the
   approved specific mitigation measures, were executed, monitored, and periodically reported."
    Pest Management (OP 4.09). There was expected to be pesticides use for high value crops. The ICR did not report on this safeguard policy
   and did not provide details on mitigation measures or level of compliance.
   Involuntary Resettlement (OPBP 4.12). No Resettlement Action Plans was prepared as no land was acquired and there was no loss of
   economic assets/properties to trigger involuntary resettlement and/or restrictions of access to resources and livelihoods (ICR, para 52).




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management. At the early stages of implementation there were shortcomings in financial management including weakness in
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                             Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)



   internal controls, mastering of the accounting software, and delay in the auditor recruitment. According to the ICR (para 53) audit opinion was
   qualified and financial management performance started as moderately satisfactory. However, all weaknesses were promptly addressed by
   the project team and as a result audit opinion was unqualified and financial management performance moved to a satisfactory rating. The
   support of the project team ensured good financial management quality and contributed to maintain sound internal control
   environment during much of the project life, until its closing.

   Procurement. The project suffered from procurement delays throughout implementation up to closing. Procurement weaknesses
   included insufficient proactivity, unrealistic planning on the part of the actors, and insufficient monitoring and control of the work by the
   delegated contract managers. These weaknesses resulted in implementation delays.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
       ---



d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                   Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                  IEG
                                                                                                                   Disagreements/Comment
                                                                                                                   Efficacy of the first sub-objective
                                                                                                                   was modest due to difficulty in
Outcome                                   Satisfactory                        Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                                                                   assessing project impact on
                                                                                                                   increasing rural incomes.
                                                                                                                   Concerns on road maintenance
                                                                                                                   arrangements and continued
Risk to Development Outcome               Modest                              Substantial
                                                                                                                   fragile political situation and
                                                                                                                   security.
Bank Performance                          Moderately Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory              ---
                                                                                                                   Failure to carry out cotton sector
Borrower Performance                      Satisfactory                        Moderately Satisfactory              reforms and procurement
                                                                                                                   weaknesses.
Quality of ICR                                                                Substantial                          ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR included nine lessons and four of these are emphasized below some adaptation of language:

   • In countries with limited capacity, it is very critical to start with a lower number of areas for intervention (number of regions or
   supply chains) and scale up once the system is found to be working. The project experience showed its selectivity by limiting the
   regions of intervention and targeting the fertile areas. However, with regard to value chains, it was ambitious.
   • In countries or regions with limited capacities the best approach to implement project activities is to contract a private service
   provider with experience and expertise in the sector. This project relied on the private sector and non-governmental organizations for
   executing project activities that reduced the burden on the PCU. Hiring a single lead contractor, charged with hiring and supervising the
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         ML:Agr Compet & Diversif (FY06) - (PCDA)(P081704)



     necessary experts for the job to be done, can bring about the desired outcome.
     • In projects that support the development of value chains, a rigorous study of the demand for the specific product and possibility
     of market penetration should inform the choice of products and supporting activities to be financed. Products supported under the
     project had sufficient markets that ensured successful outcome and sustainability of the operations.
     • An agribusiness and value chain development project requires a multifaceted integrated support team both within the sector and
     without. These include improving compliance, support in capacity improvement in certified processing, packaging, and preservation;
     establishment of packaging and cold storage facilities; training on international standards that improved quality to meet export standards;
     providing logistic staging-area; and facilitating contact with buyers, among others. Externally, providing the necessary infrastructure, such as
     roads, is also an important ingredient for success. Underlying all these is support to improvement of productivity through agricultural input
     support especially to small farmers.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR provided a detailed account of project activities. It include nine lessons that reflect the project experience. The ICR also include a
logical, but limited discussion of outcomes. More evidence was needed to support the assigned outcome rating. The overall tone of the ICR
was positive and there was limited reporting on shortcomings. At some sections the ICR suffered from repetition of information, for example,
Annex 3.
A notable shortcoming was the absence of the cost breakdown by component at completion in the Annex 1 of the ICR. The absence of the
cost breakdown is a serious shortcoming because the ex post economic analysis relied on the cost of components to estimate the ERR. This
information was later requested from the project team during the preparation of this Review, and the team promptly furnished it.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
