The World Bank                                            1818 H Street N.W.                (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT     Washington, D.C. 20433            Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                     U.S.A.                            Cable Address: INDEVAS


                                                                                    CONFORMED COPY

                                                                                            February 4, 2011

        H.E. David Deng Athorbei
        Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
        Government of Southern Sudan (GoSS)
        Juba, The Sudan

                                The Sudan: MDTF – SS Grant No. TF096243
            Additional Financing for Umbrella Program for Health Systems Development (Phase II)

        Excellency:

                 In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of the Government of
        Southern Sudan (“Recipient? or “GoSS?), I am pleased to inform you that that the International
        Development Association (“World Bank?), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by
        various donors under the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan (“MDTF-SS?), proposes
        to extend to the Recipient for the benefit of the Sudan (“Member Country?), a grant in an
        amount not to exceed seven million United States Dollars (USD 7,000,000) (“Grant?) on the
        terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this letter agreement (“Agreement?), which
        includes the attached annex (“Annex?) for the purpose of providing additional financing for
        activities related to the Original Project as described in the Annex (“Project?).

                 This Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank
        receives periodic contributions. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as
        defined in the Annex to this Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to
        the availability of such funds.

                 The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to enter
        into this Agreement and to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set
        forth or referred to in this Agreement.

                          Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing by having an
        authorized official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and
        returning it to the World Bank. Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this
        Agreement shall become effective as of the date of the countersignature.

                                          Very truly yours,
                             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                                               By: /s/ Ian Bannon
                                      Acting Country Director for the Sudan
AGREED:



By /s/ David Deng Athorbei
     Authorized Representative

H.E. David Deng Athorbei
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning

Date: February 23, 2011


Enclosures:

   (1)        Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds,
              dated July 1, 2008




                                             2
                                                                 MDTF-SS Grant No. TF096243
                                                                                    ANNEX

Article I

Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. Standard Conditions. The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out
of Various Funds dated July 1, 2008 (“Standard Conditions?), with the modifications set forth in
Section II of this Appendix, constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Definitions. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this Agreement.


                                            Article II
                                        Project Execution

2.01. Project Objectives and Description. The objectives of the Project are: (i) improve the
delivery of BPHS; and (ii) to strengthen key stewardship functions of the MOH, including
coordination of health sector activities, supervision, monitoring, evaluation, financing and resource
mobilization. The Project consists of the following parts of the Original Project:

Part A. Development of core health system

(1)     Support of the pharmaceutical management, supply and distribution system: (i) Support for
        the development of a pharmaceutical management capacity, supply and distribution chain in
        the MOH; and (ii) Support the MOH in the procurement and the distribution of drugs.

2.02. Project Execution Generally. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project. To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of: (a) Article II of the Standard Conditions; (b) the “Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants?, dated October 15, 2006 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines?); and (c) this Article II.

2.03.   Institutional and Other Arrangements.

         (a)    Project Implementation Manual. (i) The Recipient shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Project Implementation Manual. (ii) Except as the World Bank shall
otherwise agree, no amendment or waiver of any provision of the Project Implementation Manual
shall be made, without the prior written approval of the World Bank. In the event of any conflict
between the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual and this Agreement, the provisions
of this Agreement shall govern.

        (b)      Project Management. The Recipient shall maintain at all times during Project
implementation a Project Management Team with staff, terms of reference and resources
acceptable to the World Bank, to be responsible for implementation, management and
coordination of the Project.



                                                 3
        (c)     Safeguards.    The Recipient shall ensure that the activities are implemented in
 accordance with the Medical Waste Management Plan.

 2.04. Donor Visibility and Visit. (a) The Recipient shall take or cause to be taken all such
 measures as the World Bank may reasonably request to identify publicly the Donor’s support for
 the Project.

          (b)     For the purposes of Section 2.09 of the Standard Conditions, the Recipient shall,
 upon the World Bank’s request, take all measures required on its part to enable the
 representatives of the Donor(s) to visit any part of the Member Country’s territory for purposes
 related to the Project.

 2.05. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation. (a)           The Recipient shall monitor and
 evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions
 of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in
 paragraph (b) of this Section. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar
 semester, and shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the
 period covered by such report.

           (b)    The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph (a) consist of the
 following: (i) percentage of children 12 to 23 months old who received measles before the age of
 12 months; (ii) percentage of births attended in a health facility; (iii) Percentage of children under
 5 sleeping under insecticide treated nets the night before the survey; and (iv) percentage of health
 facilities submitting health management information system monthly reports within one month of
 the reporting month.

         (c)      The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
 provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report shall be furnished
 to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date. In order to assist the
 Recipient in preparing the Completion Report, the Recipient shall employ consultants whose
 qualifications, experience and terms of reference are acceptable to the World Bank.

 2.06. Financial Management. (a) The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management
 system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard
 Conditions.

          (b)      The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project
 are prepared and furnished to the World Bank as part of the Project Report not later than one
 month after the end of each calendar quarter, covering the quarter, in form and substance
 satisfactory to the World Bank.

          (c)      The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. The Recipient shall ensure
that the audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be: (i) furnished to the World Bank
not later than six months after the end of such period the date of the World Bank’s request; and (ii)
made publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner acceptable to the World Bank.




                                                  4
2.07.   Procurement

        (a)     General. All goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or
referred to in:

                (i)     Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits? published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010
(“Procurement Guidelines?), in the case of goods;

               (ii)   Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers? published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised
in October 2006 and May 2010 (“Consultant Guidelines?) in the case of consultants’ services;
and

               (iii)    the provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in the
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Recipient for the Project in
accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the
Consultant Guidelines (“Procurement Plan?).

        (b)      Definitions. The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of this
Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines,
or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

        (c)    Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods

        (i)    Except as otherwise provided in sub-paragraph (ii) below, goods shall be
               procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive
               Bidding.

         (ii)    The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be
used for procurement of goods for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (A) Limited
International Bidding; (B) National Competitive Bidding; (C) Shopping; (D) Direct Contracting;
(d)      Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

        (i)    Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants’ services shall be
               procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based
               Selection.

        (ii)   The following methods may be used for the procurement of consultants’ services
               for those assignments which are specified in the Procurement Plan: (A) Quality-
               based Selection; (B) Selection under a Fixed Budget; (C) Least Cost Selection;
               (D) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications; (E) Single-source Selection;
               ( (F) Selection of Individual Consultants; and (G) Sole Source Procedures for the
               Selection of Individual Consultants.




                                              5
         (e)      Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions. The Procurement Plan
shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the World Bank’s Prior Review. All other
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank.

                                        Article III
                                Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds


3.01. Eligible Expenditures. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in
accordance with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May 2006, as revised from time to
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions),
to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the following table. The table specifies the
categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
(“Category?), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

               Category                  Amount of the Grant              Percentage of
                                               Allocated               Expenditures to be
                                          (expressed in USD)                Financed
                                                                       (inclusive of Taxes)
  (1) Goods, and Consultants’                      7,000,000        100%
 services, Training and Operation
 Costs under the Project

 TOTAL AMOUNT                                      7,000,000



3.02. Withdrawal Conditions. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature
of this Agreement by the Recipient.

3.03. Withdrawal Period. The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard
Conditions is June 30, 2011.

                                          Article IV
                            Recipient’s Representative; Addresses

4.01. Recipient’s Representative. The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02
of the Standard Conditions is the Minister at the time responsible for finance.

4.02. Recipient’s Address. The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:

        Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
        Juba, The Sudan



                                               6
4.03. World Bank’s Address. The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the
Standard Conditions is:

       International Development Association
       1818 H Street, N.W.
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       United States of America

       Cable:                 Telex:               Facsimile:

       INDEVAS                248423 (MCI) or      1-202-477-6391
       Washington, D.C.       64145 (MCI)




                                               7
                                           APPENDIX

Section I.      Definitions

1.      “Anti-Corruption Guidelines? means the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating
        Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants?,
        dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in Section III of this Appendix.

2.      “BPHS? means the Basic Package Health Services as defined by the MOH to include,
        inter alia: (i) integrated management of childhood diseases; (ii) maternal interventions
        including emergency obstetrical assistance and family planning services, and (iii)
        interventions to address HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and other priority diseases.

3.      “Consultant Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
        Consultants by World Bank Borrowers? published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised
        in October 2006 and May 2010.

4.      “Fiscal Year? means the fiscal year of the Recipient which commences on January 1 and
        ends on December 31.

5.      “Medical Waste Management Plan? means the plan for the management of hazardous
        health care /medical waste under the Project prepared and adopted by the Recipient under
        the Original Project, as such plan may be updated with the prior written approval of the
        World Bank.

6.       “MOFEP? means the Recipient’s ministry responsible for finance and any successor
        thereto.

7.      “MOH? means the Recipient’s ministry responsible for health and any successor thereto.

8.      “Original Grant Agreement? means the grant agreement for South Sudan Umbrella
        Program for Health System Development Phase II Project between the Recipient and the
        Association, acting as administrator of grant funds provided by various donors under the
        Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan dated February 20, 2010 (TF Grant No.
        TF096243).

9.      “Operating Costs?: means reasonable recurrent Project expenditures, based on an annual
        budget previously approved by IDA, that would not have been incurred by the Recipient
        absent the Project, including: (i) office equipment and supplies; (ii) office utilities; (iii)
        office rental expenses; (iv) Project’s vehicles maintenance costs, fuel and spare parts; (v)
        travel expenses and per-diems for official Project staff (excluding salaries of Recipient’s
        government staff); and (vi) operation and maintenance of office equipment, financed with
        proceeds of the Grant , all needed for the supervision of the Project.

10.     “Original Project? means the project described in the Original Grant Agreement.

11.     “Procurement Guidelines? means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and
        IDA Credits? published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October, 2006 and May
        2010.


                                                 8
12.   “Program? means the Umbrella Program for Health System Development as described
      in the cover sheet of attached phase II proposal, adopted and approved on December 16,
      2009 by the Oversight Committee.

13.   “Procurement Plan? means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, dated
      April 20, 2010, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and
      paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to
      time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

14.   “Project Implementation Manual? means the manual dated April 20, 2010 adopted by
      the Recipient and setting out details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria,
      including administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements and
      procedures, as shall be required for the Project, as the same may be amended from time to
      time with the prior written agreement of the World Bank, and such term includes any
      schedules to the Project Operational Manual.

15.   “Training? means reasonable expenditures, based on an annual budget previously
      approved by the World Bank, (other than those for consultants’ services) incurred by the
      Recipient, to finance transportation costs and per diem of trainers and trainees,
      workshops, rental of training facilities and acquisition of training equipment and material
      needed for the implementation and supervision of the Project.




                                               9
Section II.     Modifications to the Standard Conditions

The modifications to the Standard Conditions are as follows:

1.      The provisions of Section 4.02 (c) of the Standard Conditions are deleted in their entirety.

2.      The provisions of Section 4.02 (j) of the Standard Conditions are modified to read as
follows:

        ...      (j) Ineligibility. IBRD or IDA has declared the Recipient (other than the Member
        Country) ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by IBRD or IDA or
        otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in
        whole or in part by IBRD or IDA, as a result of: (i) a determination by IBRD or IDA that
        the Recipient has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in
        connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by IBRD or IDA; and/or
        (ii) a declaration by another financier that the Recipient is ineligible to receive proceeds
        of financings made by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or
        implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of
        a determination by such financier that the Recipient has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt,
        coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing
        made by such financier.?

Section III. Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:
1.      Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read as
        follows:

“… (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed by the
       Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other individuals or entities
       who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the Borrower or the individual or
       entity has been debarred by another financier as a result of a determination by such
       financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt,
       coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing
       made by such financier.?

2.      Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:

“… (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures (fn13) a
       Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an individual or entity, including (but
       not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity ineligible publicly, either
       indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii)
       to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-
       contractor; and (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the
       project or any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the
       Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in corrupt,
       fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection with the use of loan
       proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has entered into an agreement for

                                                10
       the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has declared such person or entity
       ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made by such financier or otherwise to
       participate in the preparation or implementation of any project financed in whole or in
       part by such financier as a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower
       or the individual or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive
       practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such
       financier.?

Footnotes:

       “13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed contract
       upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the Bank’s sanctions policies and
       procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in
       connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction by another financier
       with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment agreement, as a result of a determination
       by such financier that the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or
       collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such
       financier.?

       “14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of any of its
       political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and agencies that are
       not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under
       paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.?

       “15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose of
       making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of
       sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining
       the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, and explaining how
       cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website and otherwise be made known to staff and
       other stakeholders.?




                                                 11
