OPPICtA             TO6 d
DOCUMEM
The World Bank                              1818 H Street N.W.        (202) 477-1234
INTERNATION,L BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION.      U.S.A.                    Cable Address: INDEVAS
October 11, 2012
H.]H. Kosti Manibe Ngai
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Juba, Republic of South Sudan
Excellency:
The Sudan: M)TF - SS Grant No. TFO96243
First Amendment to the Agreement Providing Additional Financing for
Umbrella Program for Health Systems Development (Phase II)
We refer to the grant agreement dated February 20, 2010 ("Agreement"), between the
Grernment of Southern Sudan ('Recipient") and the International Development
A   ciation ("World Bank"), acting as administrator of grant funds provided by various
donors under the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for the Southern Sudan ("MDTF-SS"). We
acknowledge your request for provision of additional financing to the Project. Further, we
wish to acknowledge the legal fact of the creation of the sovereign state of South Sudan in
the region formerly known as Southerr Sudan which replaces the Government of Southern
Sudn as the Recipient of this Grant. We are pleased to inform you that the World Bank
agntes to your request. Consequently, the Agreement is amended as follows:
1. The first two paragraphs of the Agreement are amended to read as follows:
"In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of the Republic
of South Sudan ("Recipient"), I am pleased to inform you that the International
Development Association ("World Bank"), acting as administrator of grant funds
provided by Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Southern Sudan ("MDTF-SS'), proposes
to extend to the Recipient, a gramt in an amount not to exceed seventy one million
five hundred thousand United States Dollars (USD 71,500,000) ("Grant"),
consisting of sixty three million United States Dollars (USD 63,000,000) in initial
grant ("Initial Grant"), seven million United States Dollars (USD 7,000,000) in
first additional grant ("First Additional Grant") and one million five hundred
thousand United States Dollars (USD 1,500,000) in second additional grant
("Second Additional Grant"), on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this letter agreement ("Agreement"), which includes the attached Annex, to
assist in the financing of the project described in the Annex ("Project").
This Grant is funded out of the abovementioned trust fund for which the World
Bank receives periodic contributions from the Donors. In accordance with Section
3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as defined in the Annex to this Agreement), the


﻿World Bank's payment obligat.ons in connection with this Agreement are limited
to the amount. of funds made available to it by the Donors under the
abovementioned trust fimd, and the Recipient's right to withdraw the Grant
proceeds is subject to the availability of such funds."
2. Section 1.01 of Annex is amended to read as follows:
"1.01. Standard Condidons. The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the
World Bank out of Various Funds dated February 15, 2012 ("Standard
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement."
3. Section 2.02 of the Annex is amended to read as follows:
"The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions
of: (a) Article II of the Standard Conditions; (b) the "Guidelines on Preventing
and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011
("Anti-Corruption Guidelines"); and (c) this Article II."
4. Section 2.07 (a) is amended to read as follows:
"(a) General. All goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the
requirements set forth or referred to in:
(i)   Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, in the case of goods and
non-consulting services;
(ii)  Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines in the case of
consultants' seivices; and
(iii)  The provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in
the procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by
the Recipient for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.18
of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of the
Consultant Guidelines ("Procurement Plan")."
i. The table at Section 3.01 of the Annex to the Agreement is deleted in its entirety
and replaced by the following table.
2


﻿Category       Amount of the     Amount of the      Percentage
Initial Grant   First and Second        of
Allocaled     Additional Grant    Expenditure
(expressed in      Allocated          s to be
USD)           (expressed in     Financed
USD)          (inclusive of
Taxes)
(1) Goods, and       63,000,000           8,500,000    100%
Consultants'
services, Training
and Operation Costs
under the Project
TOTAL                                     8,500,000
AMOUNT          63,000,000
6. The Recipient's address referred to in Section 4.02 of the Annex to the Agreement
is amended to read:
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
Juba, Republic of South Sudan
7. Paragraphs 1, 3, 4 and 11 of Section I of the Appendix to the Agreement are
amended to read as follows:
1. Anti-Corruption GuideLnes" means the "Guidelines on Preventing and
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011.
3. "Consultant Guidelines" means "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated January 2011.
4. "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the Recipient which commences on July
I and ends on June 30 of the following year.
11.   Procurement Guidelines" means "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods,
Works and Non-consulting Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and
Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 2011;
8. Sections H1 and III of the Appendix to the Agreement are deleted in their entirety.
3


﻿Please confirm your agreemen1 with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter of Amendment. Upon
receipt by the World Bank of the copy of this Letter of Amendment countersigned by you,
thi5 Letter of Amendment will become effective as of the date of countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By:
Greg Toulmin
Acting Country Director f or South Sudan, the Sudan and Somalia
Africa Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH SUDAN
MV 2012
B't                                               Date:
H E. Kosti Manibe Ngai
Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
4


