                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00003338



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IBRD 75800-CHA)



                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF USD$100 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                         PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                       FOR A

JIANGXI SHIHUTANG NAVIGATION AND HYDROPOWER COMPLEX PROJECT

                                  December 18, 2014




Transport & ICT Global Practice
China Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               Currency = Renminbi (RMB)
                                Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)

                                 Effective June 30, 2014
                                 RMB1.00 = US$0.1625
                                  US$1.00 = RMB6.15

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 －December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

                                             JANA-Jiangxi Administration of Navigation
CDM-Clean Development Mechanism
                                             Affairs
                                             JPCD-Jiangxi Provincial Communication
CER-Certified Emission Reductions
                                             Department
                                             JPDRC-Jiangxi Provincial Development and
CFU-Carbon Finance Unit of the World Bank
                                             Reform Commission
CPS-Country Partnership Strategy             JPFD-Jiangxi Provincial Finance Department
DO-Development Objectives                    JPMO-Jiangxi Project Management Office
DOE-Designated Operational Entity            LIBOR-London inter-bank offered rate
DSP-Dam Safety Panel                         O&M-Operation and Maintenance
EIA-Environment Impact Assessment            MOF-Ministry of Finance
EIRR-Economic Internal Rate of Return        MOT-Ministry of Transport
                                             NDRC-National Development and Reform
EMP-Environment Management Plan
                                             Commission
FIRR-Financial Internal Rate of Return       PAD-Project Appraisal Document
GOC-The Government of China                  PDO-Project’s Development Objectives
IBRD-International Bank of Reconstruction
                                             QEA-Quality at Entry Assessment
and Development
ICR-Implementation Completion and Results    RAP-Resettlement Action Plan
IP-Implementation Progress                   SCMS-Shihutang Complex Management Section
ISR-Implementation Status and Results        TA-Technical Assistance
IWT-Inland Waterway Transport                TEU-Twenty-Foot Equivalent Unit



        Vice President:                  Axel van Trotsenburg, EAPVP
        Country Director:                Bert Hofman, EACCF
        Senior GP Director:              Pierre Guislain, GTIDR
        Practice Manager:                Michel Kerf, GTIDR
        Project Team Leader:             Jiao Yuhui, GTIDR
        ICR Team Leader:                 Zhang Chuntai, GTIDR
                          PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
            Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and Hydropower Complex Project


                                                         CONTENTS

A. Basic Information .................................................................................................................. i
B. Key Dates................................................................................................................................ i
C. Ratings Summary .................................................................................................................... i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ....................................................................................................... ii
E. Bank Staff .............................................................................................................................. ii
F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................................. ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................................ v
H. Restructuring (if any)............................................................................................................. v
I. Disbursement Profile .............................................................................................................. v

1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .......................................................... 1
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......................................................... 4
3.   Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................................... 8
4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.................................................................... 11
5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................ 12
6.   Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................. 14
7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...................... 15

Annex 1. Project Costs, Financing, and Loan Disbursement .................................................. 17
Annex 2. Project Outputs ......................................................................................................... 19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 20
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........................ 23
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 25
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 29

MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Jiangxi Shihutang
                                                                          Navigation and
Country:                China                   Project Name:
                                                                          Hydropower Complex
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P101988                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-75800
ICR Date:               12/18/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 P.R.CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 100.00M             Disbursed Amount:         USD 100.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 100.00M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies: Jiangxi Administration of Navigation Affairs
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/23/2007     Effectiveness:             01/15/2009       01/15/2009
Appraisal:            02/13/2008     Restructuring(s):                           11/15/2011
Approval:             09/25/2008     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2014       06/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators


                                                i
    Implementation                                   QAG Assessments
                                Indicators                                        Rating
     Performance                                        (if any)
Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                          No                                               N/A
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                         N/A
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Hydropower                                                            40                  40
Ports, waterways and shipping                                         60                  60


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                        17                  17
Infrastructure services for private sector development                33                  33
Other rural development                                               33                  33
Water resource management                                             17                  17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country Director:          Bert Hofman                          David R. Dollar
Practice Manager           Michel Kerf                          Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
Project Team Leader:       Yuhui Jiao                           Wenlai Zhang
ICR Primary Author:        Chuntai Zhang
                           Jian Xie
                           Dafei Huang

F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project development objective (PDO) is to improve utilization of the Gan River for
more reliable freight transport and for cleaner energy production through: (a) improving
inland waterway transport capacity and service levels for primary and secondary
industries in the Nanchang-Ganzhou corridor of the Gan River; and (b) generating
renewable electricity to help meet rapidly growing demand for energy in the region.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

                                                ii
The PDO was not revised during implementation.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                           Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval        Target        Completion or
                                              documents)       Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in volume of cargo along the Gan River (1,000 ton)
Value
quantitative or   85,000                   131,600            131,600        285,500
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007               12/31/2013         12/31/2013     12/31/2013
Comments
                  Surpassed Achievement (217%). This increase in cargo volume cannot be
(incl. %
                  attributed entirely to the project.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Increase in volume of container along the Gan River (No. of TEU)
Value
quantitative or   50,625                   237,000            237,000        244,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007               12/31/2013         12/31/2013     12/31/2013
Comments
                  Fully Achieved (103%). This increase in container volume cannot be attributed
(incl. %
                  entirely to the project.
achievement)
                  Increase in volume of cargo passing the Shihutang ship lock during low
Indicator 3 :
                  water season during Oct to Dec. (1,000 ton)
Value
quantitative or 0                          1,031                1,031         9
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                   12/31/2013           12/31/2013    12/31/2013
                Not Achieved. Due to the development of Xiajiang ship lock 90 km downstream
Comments
                from the Project on Gan River, IWT was temporally suspended until May 2014.
(incl. %
                The full capacity will only be utilized after on-going improvements of Gan River
achievement)
                is completed by 2020.
Indicator 4 : Reduction of carbon emission (1,000 ton)
Value
quantitative or 0                          446.17               446.17        220
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                   12/31/2013           12/31/2013    12/31/2013
                Partially achieved (49%). The starting operation of the powerhouse was delayed.
Comments
                Power generated in 2013 was 284 GWh, which was 220,000 ton reduction of
(incl. %
                carbon emission. Power generation has begun to build-up. The target will be
achievement)
                achieved in next few years.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                            Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                              Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in navigable time for 1,000-ton vessels on the 38km channel to be

                                                iii
                  upgraded (%)
Value
(quantitative     27                        95                  95             95
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                12/31/2013          12/31/2013     12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Fully achieved (100%)
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Annual output of hydropower generation (GWh)
Value
(quantitative     0                         472.4               472.4          284
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                12/31/2013           12/31/2013     12/31/2013
Comments          Partially achieved (60%). Electricity generated in 2013 was less than anticipated,
(incl. %          mainly due to delays in generator installation and operation caused by
achievement)      unexpected floods. The target will be achieved in the next few years.
Indicator 3 :     Area of crop fields to be protected against 10-year flood. (ha)
Value
(quantitative     0                         4389                4389           4389
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                12/31/2013          12/31/2013     12/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved (100%).
achievement)
                  Study: Solutions to optimal operation of the Shihutang Complex are
Indicator 4 :
                  developed and adopted by JANA.
Value
(quantitative   None                     complete          complete      complete
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                 12/31/2012        12/31/2012    07/31/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (100%)
achievement)
                Study: Measures identified to treat 17 km river channel downside
Indicator 5 :
                Shihutang Dam are approved and accepted by JANA.
Value
(quantitative   None                     complete          complete      complete
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                 12/31/2010        12/31/2010    12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved (100%)
achievement)
                Number of trainees who start adopting the learnt international and
Indicator 6 :
                domestic experiences in the business.
Value
(quantitative   0                        182               182           593
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2007                 12/31/2012        12/31/2012    12/31/2013

                                                   iv
Comments
(incl. %       Target Exceeded (326%)
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                        Actual
        Date ISR
 No.                          DO                       IP           Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                    (USD millions)
  1    06/23/2009        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                5.50
  2    12/22/2009        Satisfactory              Satisfactory              16.12
  3    02/18/2011        Satisfactory              Satisfactory              34.24
  4    01/01/2012        Satisfactory              Satisfactory              62.08
  5    12/25/2012        Satisfactory              Satisfactory              81.69
  6    06/26/2013        Satisfactory              Satisfactory              92.15
  7    12/21/2013        Satisfactory              Satisfactory              92.15
  8    06/24/2014    Moderately Satisfactory       Satisfactory              98.07


H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     To reduce financing costs by
                                                     fully using the lower-interest-
                                                     rate Bank loan through
 11/15/2011       N       S       S          59.08
                                                     reallocation of loan proceeds
                                                     and modified disbursement
                                                     percentages.



I. Disbursement Profile




                                               v
1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal
1.       China’s inland waterway transport (IWT) network is the world’s largest in terms of
length and freight volume. Its higher standard waterways (Grade V and above) are approximately
the same size as the combined commercially significant networks of the EU and the USA. In the
period of 2001–2006, China’s IWT traffic had grown at 9% annually to 1.16 billion tons, slightly
higher than the combined IWT traffic tonnage of the USA and the EU. Although dominated by
flows of bulk raw materials, China had been gradually developing a major IWT container
operation with nearly eight million twenty-foot equivalent units (TEU) a year. Nevertheless,
freight density (tons per waterway kilometer) and waterway utilization in China was lower than in
the USA and in some of the EU countries.
2.       China had about 37,000 kilometers of Grade VI-VII inland waterways that were capable
of reliably carrying only small barges. But only a small fraction of the potential capacity of these
waterways was used. Navigation infrastructure either had deficiencies or was of a low standard,
which prevented the passage of larger and more efficient vessels that require higher standard
waterways. Also, historically there had been low investment in IWT to improve these standards.
Finally, institutional arrangements had made it difficult to take coordinated action to optimize
IWT development on such waterways, as most of them were administered by provincial
governments.
3.      At appraisal, the Government of China (GOC) wished to increase the contribution of
China’s waterways to meet its transport needs. The Ministry of Transport (MOT) had issued a
series of plans to direct and promote IWT development. GOC’s strategy recognized the high
energy efficiency and low greenhouse gas emissions associated with water transport, and the
importance of conserving scarce land resources.
4.       Jiangxi Province is a land-locked province in south-central China, which was one of the
six economically underdeveloped central provinces supported by GOC’s “Rise of Central China”
initiative. Transport became one of the priorities in this development strategy. But the growth of
IWT in the province lagged far behind the growth of road transport. The province therefore
decided to pursue a more balanced transport strategy that gives more prominence to IWT. The
priority for both MOT and the province was to improve navigation capacity on Gan River,
particularly in its middle and lower reaches.
5.      According to the Jiangxi Inland Waterway Navigation Development Plan (2006), the
middle and lower reaches of Gan River along the Ganzhou – Nanchang corridor (450 km) would
be upgraded to Grade III (allowing for year-round 1000 dwt vessels) by 2020. Six complexes are
planned in the Ganzhou-Nanchang Corridor: Wanan, Taihe, Shihutang, Xiajiang, Yongtai and
Longtoushan. Wanan Complex was already built in 1993. Taihe, Shihutang and Xiajiang
complexes, which are in the middle reach of Gan River, are planned for completion by 2020.
Xiajiang complex, located 90 km downstream of the Shihutang Project, was also in the
preparation phase. The implementation date for the Xiajiang Dam was unknown when the
Shihutang Complex Project was prepared. The feasibility study for the Yongtai (Xingan) complex
is being conducted now. The section between Yongtai dam and Nanchang has been upgraded to
Grade III.
6.      Jiangxi Province had a significant demand for power supply because of its rapid
economic growth at the time of appraisal. Hydropower generation, a clean and renewable power
resource that reduces greenhouse gas emission, had been given a key role in scaling up installed
capacity.

                                                 1
7.      In response to a proposal from Jiangxi Province, GOC requested the Bank’s financial and
technical support in implementing the Shihutang Navigation and Hydropower Complex Project
(the Project). 1 The Bank had provided financial and technical support to China’s IWT
development through five projects in six provinces over the previous 10 years, and was the
leading international financial institution in China’s IWT sub-sector. The Bank’s unique expertise
and experience, both international and local, could contribute to project design and
implementation as well as to strengthen the institutional capacity of the IWT sub-sector in Jiangxi
Province.
8.      The Bank’s involvement in Shihutang Project supported two of the five pillars of the
Bank’s FY06-10 China Country Partnership Strategy (CPS).2 The Project addressed the pillar of
“reducing poverty, inequality, and social exclusion” by providing more reliable IWT capacity,
and by improving the flood–protection capacity for 4,368 hectares of farmland around the Project
area. The rural poor would benefit from both improved IWT capacity and flood protection. The
Project also addressed a second pillar of “managing resource scarcity and environmental
challenges, through reducing air pollution, conserving water resources, and optimizing energy
use”, by generating renewable hydropower to meet the rapidly growing demand for energy in
Jiangxi Province.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators
9.       The project development objective (PDO) of the Project was to improve utilization of
Gan River for more reliable freight transport and for cleaner energy production through:
(a) improving inland waterway transport capacity and service levels for primary and secondary
industries in the Nanchang － Ganzhou corridor of Gan River; and (b) generating renewable
electricity to help meet rapidly growing demand for energy in the region.
10.     Indicators used to measure achievement of the PDO included increased IWT cargo and
traffic volume resulting from the improvement of IWT capacity and reduction of carbon
emissions.

1.3     Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/justification
11.     The PDO and the key monitoring indicators were not revised during implementation.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries
12.     The primary beneficiaries of the Project were: people and businesses engaged in IWT,
farming communities in the vicinity of project area, local residents who took advantage of
employment opportunities, enhanced flood protection and improved accessibility from the Project,
and the project implementation agencies. The rural poor would benefit from improved IWT and
jobs during project construction. Reduction of travel distance between Wanhe Town and Taihe
County by 12 km would benefit about 150,000 people.




1
  The World Bank, August 14, 2008, Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount of
US$100 million to the People’s Republic of China for a Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and Hydropower
Complex Project.
2
  The World Bank. May 2006. Country Partnership Strategy for the People’s Republic of China for the
Period of FY2006-FY2010. approved by the Board on May 23, 2006.


                                                  2
1.5     Original Components (as approved)
13.     Component A – Construction of Shihutang Complex (Total US$209.47 million, IBRD
US$91.59 million). The Shihutang Complex would be a single integrated infrastructure unit that
would form a reservoir with a designed normal pool water elevation of 56.5 meters and pool
storage of about 166.8 million cubic meters. The complex would consist of the main elements of
23 sets of dam sluice gates, a Grade III single ship lock to accommodate 1000-dwt vessels, a
powerhouse with a capacity of 120 MW, a connection dam of 931 meters, and a dam crest access
road of 937 meters.
14.     Component B – Flood Protection Works (Total US$80.11 million, entirely financed by
counterpart funds). The flood protection works would consist of approximately 43 kilometers of
dikes and 56 kilometers of diversion canals, about six sets of pumping stations, two sets of free
drainage sluices and two sets of regulating sluices.
15.      Component C – Technical Assistance (TA) (Total US$1.02 million, IBRD US$0.38
million). This component would consist of two studies and substantial training and study tours to
build institutional and technical capacities of JANA and the Project Management Office for the
Project (JPMO).

1.6     Revised Components
16.     Project components were not revised during implementation.

1.7     Other Significant Changes
17.     Quantity changes. The following changes were made during implementation:

      a) The dam crest access road was extended from the original 937 meters to 1,600
         meters for the benefit of local people and vehicular traffic;
      b) Two sets of pumping stations were added at Wanhe and Jintan to increase flood
         protection capacity;
      c) In place of the Donggang diversion canal (proposed for flood control) a pump
         station was added in order to address land acquisition issues.

18.     Project restructuring. In November 2011 the project was restructured to reallocate loan
proceeds and to modify the disbursement percentage.3 Savings in Bank loan proceeds under the
categories of Goods under Part A and Interest during Construction were reallocated to Category
(1) – Works under Part A, and the disbursement percentage for Category (1) was also increased
from 60% to 90%. This reallocation reduced the need for higher cost domestic commercial loans.4
19.     Project cost and financing. Project cost at completion was RMB2,234.80 million
(USD344.05 million equivalent), about 2.7% lower than the cost estimated at appraisal
(RMB2,296.87 million). However, project cost in USD was about 7.9% higher than that at
appraisal (USD319.01 million), as most project expenditures were incurred in RMB, while the
USD depreciated against the RMB. Other reasons for cost variations included: (i) use of


3
  The World Bank, November 15, 2011, Office Memorandum – Restructuring Paper for “Jiangxi
Shihutang Navigation and Hydropower Complex Project (Loan 7580-CN)”.
4
  The World Bank, November 15, 2011, Fax to the MOF, China: Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and
Hydropower Complex Project (Loan 7580-CN) – Amendment to the Loan Agreement.


                                                 3
competitive bidding under Bank Procurement Guidelines; and (ii) using pump stations at Wanhe
and Jintan in place of the diversion channel.
20.     At appraisal, the Project was expected to be financed by the central government (18.5%),
local government (50.2%), and the IBRD loan (31.3%). The central government increased its
financial support slightly from the original RMB425 million to RMB495 million and JANA
obtained a commercial bank loan of RMB540 million to supplement counterpart funds. These
contributed 24.1% of project costs and significantly lowered the direct local government
contribution to 24.7%. Annex 1 provides a comparison of project costs at appraisal and at
completion.
21.     Carbon Finance. The Emission Reduction Purchase Agreement (ERPA) signed between
the project entity and the Bank on January 15, 20105 contracted the purchase of 200,000 Certified
Emission Reductions (CER) generated by the Project by the end of 2013, of which at least 75%
should have been generated by December 31, 2012. Because of the record-breaking flood in June
2010, civil works and generator installation were significantly delayed, and only 17,595 CERs
were issued for the period January 1 to December 31, 2012.
22.    The ERPA was revised and the contracted CER volume was reduced from 200,000 to
23,460 based on CERs generated in Year 2012. The second verification for the period of January
1, 2013 to September 30, 2013 resulted in 168,120 CERs being issued on September 12, 2014.
However, as per the revised ERPA, only 5,865 CERs would be transferred.

2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
23.      The Project is an integrated development to upgrade the inland waterway channel,
generate renewable hydropower and enhance flood protection in the vicinity of the project.
Experience in preparing and implementing the preceding five projects (three completed and two
on-going) enabled the Project to be prepared in an efficient manner. The combination of the
improvement of IWT navigation facility and the development of a hydropower station made the
project financially sustainable.
24.     Lessons Learned. The following lessons from the previous Bank-financed inland
waterway projects in China and two recent hydro-electric projects were incorporated in the
project design:

      a) Avoidance of redesigns and consequent delays by a thorough investigation of
         geotechnical conditions for the foundations of dams;
      b) Provision of expert guidance on design and operational issues of dams through the use
         of a Dam Safety Panel;
      c) Ensuring stronger coordination among various agencies involved in water resource
         management and collaboration with local municipal governments for land acquisition
         and resettlement.



5
 January 15, 2010. Spanish Carbon Fund, Clean Development Mechanism Certified Emission Reductions
Purchase Agreement (Jiangxi Shihutang Hydropower Project), between Jiangxi Gan River shihutang Water
Resource Multipurpose Development Company Limited and International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (as trustee of the Spanish Carbon Fund).


                                                 4
      d) Careful demand analysis and traffic forecasts to evaluate the scope and expected
            benefits of the project.

25.      Analysis of Alternatives. Several alternatives were considered in arriving at the design
of the Shihutang Complex. These included: alternative analysis to determine the dam site and axis,
complex configuration, design of normal pool level, and installed capacity for the hydropower
station. Detailed geological and hydrological surveys were conducted during the feasibility study
and preliminary design to facilitate a reliable design. The structural safety and durability of the
dam and flood protection works were priorities in the design.
26.        Risks. The following risks were identified:
      a)    Construction-related risks, including procurement delays and large variations;
      b)    Failure to comply with Bank social and environment safeguards;
      c)    Weak institutional capacity;
      d)    Weak financial management.

27.     The following measures were proposed to address the identified risks: enhanced
engineering designs, based on geotechnical/hydrological surveys; a realistic procurement plan and
the involvement of a tendering agency; independent external monitoring of safeguard compliance;
appointment of a Dam Safety Panel; training of PMO staff; and the adoption of a financial
management manual, acceptable to the Bank.
28.     Safeguards. The project was assessed as Environmental Category A due to the
magnitude of the issues involved, the coverage area, and the nature of the proposed investments.
It triggered the following Bank safeguard policies: Involuntary Resettlement, OP4.12;
Environmental Assessment, OP4.01; Natural Habitats, OP4.04; Physical Cultural Resources,
OP4.11; and Safety of Dams, OP 4.37. A Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, was
prepared to guide the implementation of land acquisition and resettlement. An EIA report was
prepared to assess environmental impacts and develop mitigation measures to avoid, minimize,
mitigate and compensate the identified adverse impacts during the planning, construction and
operational stages. Two stand-alone EMPs were developed (one for the dam site and the other for
the flood protection area), which detail the environmental management organizations and
responsibilities, mitigation measures, capacity building plans, monitoring plans and budgets. A
Dam Safety Panel was appointed to provide professional review and advice during the design and
implementation of the dam. The project safeguard documents – RAP, EIA/EMPs - complied with
Bank safeguard policy requirements, including consultation and disclosure.
29.     Quality at entry. Project preparation and design were of good quality. There was no
Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) for this project by the Quality Assessment Group.

2.2        Implementation
30.     The project was completed satisfactorily, on schedule, and under budget by JPMO. The
full amount of loan of US$100 million was disbursed. An appropriate institutional arrangement
for implementing the project with the PMO located in JANA, comprised of seasoned technical
and management staff, as well as guidance provided by the Dam Safety Panel were among the
positive aspects affecting project implementation.
31.      Key factors that affected project implementation negatively included: major floods in
June 2010 resulted in the project falling four months behind schedule by 2012 (including the
installation of the first and second generator units), while the Spring floods in March 2012
delayed power generation and the implementation of flood protection works; unanticipated

                                                  5
difficulties in land acquisition for the diversion canal at some locations resulted in the project
design having to be changed to replace the diversion canal by a pumping station; and some
diversion channels had to be re-routed to avoid areas with unstable soil area as this was not
discovered during the preliminary design.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization
32.     Monitoring and Evaluation Design. The Results Framework in the PAD included: three
project outcome indicators to assess the benefits of IWT channel improvement and contribution to
Climate Change by generating renewable hydropower; and four intermediate indicators to
evaluate Project outputs: increased navigable time in the upgraded 38 km channel for 1000-ton
vessels; annual output from the Project hydropower station; area of farmland protected against
10-year floods; and the number of completed Project studies and the number of people receiving
trainings under the project.
33.      The results of two of the four PDO Outcome indicators (increase in volume of cargo
along the Gan River and increase in volume of container traffic along the Gan River) cannot be
attributed entirely to the Project. This is borne out by the fact that the end-of-project targets for
these two indicators were exceeded, while less than 1% of the end-of-project target for a third
indicator (increase in cargo passing through the Shihutang ship lock during the low water season)
- which could be considered to have a stronger connection with project outcomes – was achieved.
In the case of this indicator, the very poor end-of-project achievement is due to the failure to take
account of the construction plans of the Xiajiang Complex, downstream of the Project, and the
gradual development strategy for Gan River inland waterway transport during the design of the
Results Framework.
34.     Monitoring and Evaluation Implementation. Overall, the Project M&E system was
implemented as designed. JPMO collected data from the relevant authorities semi-
annually/annually, analyzed them, and incorporated the results in the semi-annual project
progress reports. Unfortunately, the weaknesses in the M&E design do not appear to have been
spotted and rectified during Project implementation.
35.     Monitoring and Evaluation Utilization. The results of M&E system implementation -
review of semi-annual progress reports, the review of audited annual financial statements, and at
least two supervision missions a year - were used to assess progress during Project
implementation.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
36.      Social safeguards. As discussed in Section 2.1, the Project triggered OP 4.12 on
Involuntary Resettlement and a RAP, acceptable to the Bank, was prepared. Upon completion, the
Project had permanently acquired 654.9 ha (appraisal estimate was 615 ha) and temporarily
acquired 70.6 ha (appraisal estimate 330 ha). In all, 141 households comprising 515 people were
relocated (appraisal estimate 169 households comprising 597 people). Special financial and
physical assistance were provided to the vulnerable households identified. Some farmland was
elevated to reduce inundation. Some activities were behind the schedule, especially the
construction of the Huangkeng resettlement site and land acquisition for the Dongmen Canal in
the Wanhe protection area. Land acquisition for the Donggang diversion canal also experienced
difficulties, which led to a revision in the engineering design.
37.     Social safeguards implementation was monitored by JPMO and related counties and the
monitoring results were incorporated in the semi-annual project progress reports. An independent
external agency monitored resettlement activities every six months and provided comprehensive

                                                 6
reports, which confirmed that Project resettlement complied with Bank requirements.
Implementation of RAP is considered Moderately Satisfactory because difficulties in land
acquisition impacted progress of Project implementation.
38.      Environment safeguards. As discussed in Section 2.1, the Project was classified as
Category A (Full Assessment) and triggered four environmental safeguards policies.
Environmental safeguards documents, acceptable to the Bank, were prepared, comprising:
(a) EIA report; (b) Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for Flood Control Areas;
(c) Environmental Management Plan for Navigation/Hydro Complex; and (d) EA Executive
Summary. JPMO, with the assistance of an external environmental monitoring consultant, closely
supervised implementation of the EMP. Construction management and post-construction
rehabilitation were managed well. In particular, the PMO made commendable efforts in the
protection of natural habitats, through further survey and protection efforts for camphor trees,
construction of fish channel and reproduction facilities, and restoration/enhancement of fish
habitats. These efforts constitute good practice and will be disseminated across the province and
the country.
39.      Civil works contracts included items related to environmental protection and water
resources conservation. JPMO retained an external environmental monitoring consultant and an
external water and soil preservation consultant to monitor environmental safeguard compliance.
Environment monitoring reports were included in the semi-annual project progress reports. The
monitoring reports showed that the mitigation measures were properly implemented and no
significant residual impacts remained.
40.     The Dam Safety Panel contributed significantly to ensuring compliance with the Dam
Safety safeguard policy. Implementation of the environmental safeguards is considered
Satisfactory.
41.      Financial management. Project financial management risk was assessed at appraisal to
be modest. During implementation financial planning and record keeping was satisfactory.
Counterpart funds were allocated to the Project in a timely manner and the Bank loan was
disbursed smoothly. JPMO submitted interim financial reports in accordance with the legal
covenants. Project financial audit reports for 2009–2013 were issued without qualifications and
were submitted to the World Bank in a timely manner, and were acceptable to the Bank. Overall,
project financial management is rated satisfactory.
42.     Procurement and contract management. Project procurement was carried out in
accordance with the World Bank’s “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits” dated May 2004 and revised in October 2006, and “Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 and revised in October
2006. A procurement agent was recruited to assist JPMO on procurement activities. The
procurement plan was updated several times based on implementation needs and these were
approved by the Bank. JPCD empowered JPMO to approve variations and claims below RMB5
million. JPTD and JPFD approved advance payments on materials available on site to help
contractors maintain a healthy cash flow during construction peaks. Upon completion, a total of
35 contract packages were procured, including 8 for civil works, 21 for goods, and 6 for
consulting services. Of these contracts, three goods contracts and two civil works contracts were
ICB contracts, and two consulting services contracts were subject to international competition.
Procurement under the Project is rated satisfactory.




                                               7
2.5        Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
43.     The completed Project is operated and maintained by the Jiangxi Port Investment
Company, which has sufficient experienced personnel to operate and maintain these facilities. It
has prepared and adopted an Operations and Maintenance Plan and an Emergency Preparedness
Plan in compliance with the Bank policy on Dam Safety. A complete set of monitoring equipment
has been installed and a professional institute has been assigned to conduct routine dam safety
monitoring. The Shihutang Complex generated 284 GWh in 2013, and is expected to generate
400 GWh in 2014. It will reach an annual average amount of 472.4 GWh in the next fewer years.
The power generation provides reliable and stable revenue to cover the expense for normal
operation and maintenance of the Complex. Furthermore, the revenue from hydropower
generation allows the free usage of ship lock.

3.         Assessment of Outcomes

3.1        Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: High
44.     Objective- Rated High. The PDO was consistent with China’s development priorities at
the time of appraisal and remains highly relevant to the themes of the Bank Group’s FY2013–
2016 CPS for China, 6 including: (i) supporting greener growth; (ii) promoting more inclusive
development; and (iii) advancing mutually beneficial relations with the world. IWT is the least
energy intensive, most cost effective, and lowest contributor to greenhouse gases of all transport
modes. IWT is also essential to the promotion of greater efficiency, productivity and
competitiveness in the use of inland water resources in the project area.
45.      Design – Rated High. Project design, comprising three components – an integrated
navigation and hydropower complex at Shihutang, flood protection works, and technical
assistance – built on the experience of earlier IWT projects financed by the Bank in China and
contribute to the achievement of the PDO. The project design is considered to be an appropriate
approach to support greener growth and promote more inclusive development, which are two
themes of the Bank Group’s FY 2013-2016 CPS for China. Project design also addressed the
priority of Jiangxi Province MoT to improve and facilitate navigation capacity in the middle and
lower reaches of Gan River.
46.     Implementation – Rated High. Project implementation upgraded 38 kilometers of
inland waterway in the middle reaches of Gan River to Grade III and installed renewable power
generation of 120 MW from a hydropower station. These achievements are consistent with the
Bank Group CPS and Government priorities.

3.2        Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Modest
47.      The Project had two objectives: (a) Improving inland waterway transport capacity and
service levels for primary and secondary industries in the Nanchang-Ganzhou corridor of the Gan



6
    The World Bank. October 2012. Country Partnership Strategy for the People’s Republic of China for the
     Period of FY2013-FY2016. Report No. 67566-CN.


                                                     8
River; and (b) generating renewable electricity to help meet the rapidly growing demand for
energy in the region.
48.    Improving inland waterway transport capacity and service levels for primary and
secondary industries in the Nanchang-Ganzhou corridor of the Gan River - Modest.
49.     The Project directly improved the capacity of the 38 km IWT channel by upgrading it
from Grade V to Grade III, which substantially increased the navigable time for 1000-ton vessels
from 27% to the end-of-project target of 95% of the time. The improved IWT capacity and
service level at Shihutang makes IWT a competitive mode for bulk and low-value cargo (e.g.,
agriculture products and construction material) along Gan River.
50.      Of the Project’s three outcome indicators that are meant to assess the achievement of this
objective, two were exceeded: increase in volume of cargo along the Gan River (217% achieved)
and increase in volume of containers along the Gan River (103% achieved). However, as
discussed in Section 2.3 under M&E Design, the results of these two indicators cannot be
attributed entirely to the Project. On the other hand, less than 1% of the end-of-project target
increase in volume of cargo passing the Shihutang ship lock during the low water season during
October to December (the third Outcome indicator to assess the achievement of this objective)
was achieved, as IWT in the Gan River was temporarily suspended near Shihutang due to the
development of the Xiajiang ship lock, downstream of Shihutang. The full capacity of the
Shihutang ship lock is expected to be fully utilized only by 2020.
51.     Therefore, the civil works envisaged under the project have been successfully completed
and they will improve transport capacity as expected, but the full realization of those benefits is
delayed due to the development of Xiajiang ship lock. In view of this, achievement of this
objective is rated as Modest.
52.      Generating renewable electricity to help meet the rapidly growing demand for
energy in the region - Substantial. Because of unanticipated floods, which delayed hydropower
generation from Project investments, the Project only generated 284 GWH, 60% of the output
target of 472 GWH in 2013. The estimated electricity generation for 2014 (based on generation of
350 GWH in the first ten months) is 400 GWH, i.e., 85% of end-of project target. The generated
electricity has been successfully networked with the regional electricity grid to effectively support
the rapidly growing demand for energy and significantly alleviate the status of insufficient power
supply in the region. Annual power generation is expected to increase 5% each year between
2016 and 2020 and will reach designed capacity before 2020. Achievement of this objective is
therefore rated as Substantial.
53.      Other significant Project benefits. The Flood Protection Works component
significantly improved 10-year flood protection for nearly 4,400 hectares in the project area
(100% of end-of-project target). The dam crest road has shortened travel distance between Wanhe
Town and Taihe County by about 12 kilometers, directly benefiting about 50,000 pedestrians and
vehicle users. The Project also contributed to the reduction of carbon emissions by 220 tons in
2013, although because of the delay in power generation start up, this constituted only 49% of the
end-of-project target.

3.3     Efficiency

Rating: Substantial
54.   Economic re-evaluation. Cost-benefit analysis conducted at appraisal estimated an
EIRR of 14.9%. Using the same valuation methods and the same assumptions of travel cost

                                                 9
savings per ton, as well as the economic benefits of electricity generated per KWh as presented in
the PAD, the EIRR of the Project at completion is 12.9%. The lower EIRR is mainly due to the
lower waterway traffic in the Shihutang section and lower electricity generated than projected at
appraisal. The reason for lower waterway traffic volume was due to the constructions of the
downstream Xiajiang Complex, which significantly blocked the river channel for navigation. The
lower power generation at completion is due to the delayed startup of power generation, discussed
earlier. Nevertheless, the EIRR of 12.9% is acceptable and the project’s economic objectives have
largely been achieved.
55.      Financial re-evaluation. Financial re-evaluation was carried out based on incurred
investment costs, incurred operations and maintenance (O&M) costs, and revenue generated, as
well as the corresponding projections provided by JANA. The recalculated FIRR was 3.5%
before tax and 1.6% after tax; these compare favorably with the appraisal estimate of 0.2%. The
higher FIRR is mainly due to lower investment costs and higher electricity tariffs. (See Annex 3
for details of the economic and financial re-evaluations.)

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
56.      Taking into account the ratings for relevance (high), achievement of PDO (moderately
satisfactory), and efficiency (substantial), Project outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.

                     Item                                            Rating
Relevance                                         High
       Relevance of objective                     High
       Relevance of design                        High
       Relevance of implementation                High
Achievements                                      Modest
Efficiency                                        Substantial
Overall                                           Moderately Satisfactory

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (Not yet reviewed from this
point.)
(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

57.       The social impact survey and assessment carried out during project preparation concluded
that: (i) no ethnic minority community/group was living in the project area; (ii) the Project does
not trigger the Bank’s OP 4.10 on Indigenous People; (iii) women accounted for approximately
50% of the population, but there were no special gender issues in the project area; (iv) about 2%
of households were vulnerable because of age, illness, or disability; and (v) there would be both
adverse and positive impacts on fishery. Some measurements were proposed to mitigate the
potential negative impacts and assist the vulnerable people, e.g., restoration of their households
and livelihoods, and building a fish pass area. During implementation, these measures were
implemented by the JPMO, including the construction of two collective resettlement sites,
special financial and physical assistance to identified vulnerable households, and recovery plan
and training for farmers who lost land.
(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening
58.    The Project has substantially strengthened the institutional capacity of JANA as a result
of implementing the project and the project’s capacity building programs. Advanced concepts,

                                               10
experience, and techniques in implementing a complex hydropower project were brought to
JANA, especially to JPMO staff, through training, study tours, and studies. The result of the
downstream waterway treatment study was applied to the ship lock design and power station
design in the early stage of the Project. The study on reservoir operation optimization provided
technical support for future reservoir management and the operation plan to optimize power
station operation and IWT navigation operation. Training provided to JANA and JPMO staff
under the project enhanced their capacity for procurement, safeguards monitoring and mitigation,
navigation channel maintenance and management, and hydropower station management. The
improved capacity benefited day-to-day project implementation and future operation of the ship
lock, navigation channel and power station, as well as environmental management in the post-
completion phase. The project supported the development of management and operational
procedures, regulations, and manuals, and their subsequent use has increased (and will continue
to increase) JANA’s capacity in IWT development.
(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

59.     Not applicable.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
60.   No beneficiary surveys or stakeholder workshops were conducted during and after project
implementation.

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low
61.     The risk to development outcome is negligible to low.
62.      IWT sub-sector development. Central and project provincial governments' commitment
to the Project is strong. Economic conditions in the country and in Jiangxi Province remain robust.
Traffic along Gan River has exceeded expectations, reflecting the rapid economic growth that the
region has enjoyed but also improvement in service and reduction in transport costs. Attention is
being paid to the maintenance of the hydropower and IWT facilities. Demand for IWT and
renewable power generation remains high. The risk to achieving the development outcome of the
Project is negligible.
63.      Shihutang Complex. There are clear institutional and financial arrangements for the
operation and maintenance of the Shihutang Complex. Despite delays in starting operation,
electricity generation has steadily built up and will reach planned output capacity in the next few
years to meet energy demand and support green development in the province. The dam crest
access road has provided a convenient transport facility for the local people and vehicles. Once
other ship locks along Gan River are completed by 2020, traffic passing through the Shihutang
ship-lock will increase substantially and reach planned levels. The risk of the Shihutang Complex
not functioning as envisaged is low.
64.       Flood protection works. Flood protection works constructed under the Project, including
dikes, diversion canals, pumping stations, and drainage sluices, are operated and maintained by
JANA with clear institutional and financial arrangements. Maintenance of these flood protection
facilities is adequate to keep them in good condition. Taihe County is managing the construction
of the pumping station at Donggang, with financial support from JANA and it will be operational
before the next flood season. The risk of the flood protection works failing to operate as intended
is low.

                                                11
65.     Capacity building. Two studies under the Project supported project implementation and
operation, as well as the downstream development of Shihutang Complex. The Project supported
substantial domestic and overseas training and study tours for staff of JANA and local
governments. Participants of training programs and study tours have increased their knowledge of
project management, IWT development, hydropower complex operation, dam safety, etc. The
risk of inadequate capacity to operate and maintain the Shihutang Complex in a satisfactory
manner is considered low.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1     Bank Performance
(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
66.      The Bank confirmed that the Shihutang Navigation and Hydropower Complex was
strategically relevant to Government’s and Jiangxi’s plans to develop inland waterway transport
in the lower and middle reaches of the Gan River and to meet energy demand in Jiangxi through
hydropower, a clean and renewable power source, as well as being relevant to the key pillars of
the Bank’s China Country Partnership Strategy for FY06-10. The Bank ensured that lessons of
previous projects in the IWT sector in China were incorporated in the design of the Shihutang
Project. During project preparation and appraisal the Bank ensured that: various alternatives
were analyzed; technical, financial, and economic analyses were carried out as per Bank policies;
implementation arrangements for the project were appropriate; project agencies addressed
environmental and social aspects of the project, including the preparation of the required
documents (EAs/EMPs, RAPs/RPF) in compliance with Government and Bank requirements;
appropriate procurement and financial management arrangements that meet Bank requirements
were put in place; and risks were identified and appropriate mitigation measures were
incorporated in the project design. During project preparation the Bank provided substantial
training to project staff on Bank project financial management and procurement procedures, as
well as environmental and social safeguards.
67.     The project was prepared in a fairly efficient manner, with less than a year between
concept review and appraisal, and 18 months to Board. The Bank preparation and appraisal task
team comprised Bank staff and consultants with the appropriate mix of technical, economic,
financial, fiduciary and safeguards skills. Comments provided by Peer Reviewers at various
stages were taken into account in the design of the project.
68.      Weak areas of project appraisal/quality at entry included: elaborate description of the
PDO, of which the front end was too broad and beyond the scope of the project; weak M&E
design, in particular the selection of two outcome indicators where achievements would not be
clearly attributable to the project; failure to take into account the impact of the construction of the
Xiajiang Dam, downstream of Shihutang, on the project; and a tight five year implementation
schedule, which did not anticipate and allow for delays due to flooding (which materialized
during implementation)..
69.      Taking the above factors into account, on balance, the Bank’s performance in ensuring
quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory.

(b)     Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

                                                  12
70.     The Bank provided implementation support to the project on a regular basis through:
(i) semi-annual missions with the required expertise and follow-up technical missions; (ii) review
of semiannual project progress reports, annual financial audit reports, and external safeguards
monitoring reports; (iii) monitoring results indicators; and (iv) provision of training / workshops
on Bank fiduciary and safeguards policies and procedures. The Bank monitored compliance with
safeguards and fiduciary policies closely and provided guidance on the proper implementation of
the EMP and the RAP. The Bank provided guidance to JPMO to improve the quality of bidding
documents.
71.     The Bank acceded to the Government’s request to restructure the project in order to
reduce the financing costs (of borrowing from a commercial bank to counterpart funding
requirements) by fully utilizing the Bank loan through reallocation of loan proceeds. The Bank
confirmed that capacity building activities were completed satisfactorily to ensure that the
Shihutang complex would be operated in a sustainable manner. The Bank provided additional
support on the carbon finance activities of the Project.
72.      While the Bank paid adequate attention to development impact, it should have paid
greater attention to the appropriateness of the PDO and the project’s Result’s Framework. In
particular the PDO and the Results Framework should have been revised through a Level 1
restructuring. In addition, the Bank should have counselled against the bidding and award of civil
works contracts for the construction of the dam, power plant, and ship lock on the basis of
technical specifications and bill of quantities based on preliminary design. This caused substantial
work variations during contract implementation and the award prices of these contracts were
significantly exceeded.
73.      The Bank prepared and archived implementation status reports (ISRs) at the required
intervals. The ISRs were of good quality and the ratings for development objectives and
implementation progress (as well as other ratings) were candid, and were based on project status
and likelihood of achieving project objectives at the time of rating. The final ISR downgraded the
DO rating to moderately satisfactory because some of the project’s PDO indicator targets would
only be achieved after a delay.
74.     On balance, the quality of Bank supervision is rated moderately satisfactory.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
75.     The overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory based on the ratings for
Quality at Entry and Supervision.

5.2     Borrower Performance
(a)     Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
76.      Government performance was satisfactory, based on the level of its commitment to the
Project. Ministry of Transport (MoT) respectively provided technical and financial support to the
Project. MoT increased the central government’s financial contribution to the project during
implementation and agreed to the Province’s request for restructuring the loan.



                                                13
77.      Jiangxi province gave the project a high level of attention. Jiangxi Transportation
Department, Jiangxi DRC, Jiangxi Provincial Financial Department, and Jiangxi Administration
of Navigation Affairs provided adequate support for project preparation and implementation.
There was effective coordination between JPMO and the municipal government to address land
acquisition and resettlement issues. At the municipal level, the county government provided
efficient support by assigning dedicated staff to assist JPMO with safeguards monitoring, surveys,
and implementation of EMP and RAP.
(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
78.      This major infrastructure Project was completed before the Loan closing date and 100%
of the Bank Loan were disbursed. JPMO was highly motivated and worked proactively on all
technical and management tasks, complied with Bank safeguard policies, coordinated with local
governments, prepared progress reports, and supervised project implementation. After the
significant flood in 2010, JPMO worked closely with the contractors to bring project
implementation back on schedule and under budget. JPMO and the supervision engineers
established an internal quality control mechanism during the project implementation. As a result,
the quality of construction was very good.
79.     The Project experienced a shortfall in counterpart funds, which was addressed through
commercial bank loans and restructuring of the World Bank loan. There were some unanticipated
delays in land acquisition and resettlement, which affected project progress during the
implementation. In place of the Donggang diversion canal (proposed for flood control) which had
land acquisition issues, a pump station was added.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
80.      The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory based on the satisfactory
ratings for Government performance and Implementing Agency performance.

6.      Lessons Learned

81.     The principal lessons from the project are summarized below.
82.      Combination of ship lock and hydropower station development. The combination of a
hydropower station with ship lock development makes the project financially viable. As Jiangxi
Province does not charge ships for use of the ship lock, revenue from power generation provides
financial support for the operations and maintenance of the ship lock and the dam and servicing
the debt. Free use of the ship lock is expected to attract more low value commodities to IWT from
other transport modes.
83.     Importance of good M&E design. The absence of a well-designed M&E complicates
the assessment of the achievement of the PDO. This reinforces the message of Bank Guidelines
on the importance of a well-designed M&E. In addition, the opportunity to rectify a weak M&E
through restructuring should not be missed.
84.     Impact of other projects in the overall program. The impact of the construction of the
Xiajiang complex on the end-of-project achievements of the Bank project highlights the need to

                                               14
take into account the status and potential impacts of other projects which are being implemented
contemporaneously with a proposed Bank project as part of an overall program. In such cases,
end-of-project targets need to be estimated taking into account of the impact of such other
projects.
85.      Need for design flexibility to address unanticipated land acquisition and
resettlement issues. Preparation of a RAP acceptable to the Bank is an important, but not
sufficient condition for successful project implementation. Project design should be flexible to
allow for unanticipated land acquisition and resettlement issues, as was the case with the
difficulties in land acquisition for the Donggang diversion canal.
86.      Need for realistic implementation schedule for power generation investments. Power
generation investments can be significantly impacted by slow progress of civil works and
equipment installation. Therefore, a more flexible power generation schedule should be prepared.
In addition, estimates of power generation should allow for a phased build up to full capacity.

7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners
(a)     Borrower/implementing agencies
87.     Lowest price bidding. While applying the Bank’s procurement policy and procedure of
lowest price bidding, bidding prices for most of the contract packages were much lower than
estimated. Some of them were lower than reasonable price. This might cause problems in the
project implementation, like delay in commencement, low construction quality, etc. It is
suggested that the World Bank might conduct related study to look for effective and efficient
procurement approach, which may both be compliant with World Bank policy and also avoid the
problem above.
88.      Bank’s comment: Current Bank procurement policy is to award the contract to the
lowest evaluated substantially responsive bidder who also meets the minimum qualification
requirements stipulated in the bidding documents. Price is not the only factor to be considered in
bid evaluation and bidding documents may also specify the relevant factors in addition to price to
be considered in bid evaluation and the manner in which the factors will be applied for the
purpose of determining the lowest evaluated bid (see paragraph 2.52 of the Procurement
Guidelines). In order to ensure quality, the technical specifications, standards as well as the
quality assurance mechanisms including testing, inspections and acceptance should be carefully
drafted in the bidding and contract documents and enforced during contract implementation. The
minimum qualification requirements should also be set so as to ensure that the bidder awarded the
contract has the requisite experience and performance record and technical and financial capacity
to successfully execute the contract. Competitive procurement under Bank Procurement
Guidelines has generally resulted in better prices in Bank projects. The Bank’s proposed new
framework for procurement emphasizes market analysis, procurement strategy and Value-for
Money decision-making and life cycle cost considerations in contract award decisions.
89.      Depreciation of foreign currency. In the project implementation period, the US$ against
RMB had significant depreciation, which led to shortage of project funds. For solving this
problem, the government and JANA made special efforts to increase the fiscal allocation and
obtain commercial loans from a domestic bank. It is suggested that the World Bank might
establish a special fund/loan for supplementing funding shortages caused by foreign currency
depreciation.


                                               15
90.     Bank’s comment: Depreciation of the US dollar against the Borrower’s currency is an
unusual case. It is noted that the issue was addressed through increased counterpart contribution
and partly through reallocation of loan proceeds and adjustment to disbursement percentages. The
option of additional financing was also available, but the Borrower did not choose to exercise it.

(b)     Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c)     Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                               16
                                      Annex 1 Project Costs, Financing, and Loan Disbursement

 (a)       Cost Comparison (USD million)
                                                                    At Appraisal                            Actual                  Increase/
          Component and/or Activity
                                                      Counterpart      IBRD        Total      Counterpart   IBRD       Total        Decrease

A. Construction of Shihutang Complex                       117.88         91.59      209.47        100.57      97.69     198.26          -5.3%
  1. Civil Works                                            49.26         41.19       90.45         42.49      63.24     105.73          16.9%
  2. M&E and Goods                                          44.65         50.40       95.05         34.29      34.45      68.74         -27.7%
  3. Land Acquisition and Resettlement                       2.13                      2.13          2.17                  2.17           2.0%
  4. Design, Supervision and Consulting                     13.65                     13.65          9.51                  9.51         -30.4%
  5. Others                                                  8.19                      8.19         12.11                 12.11          47.9%
B. Flood Protection Works                                   80.11                     80.11        130.95                130.95         63.5%
  1. Civil Works                                            44.33                     44.33         93.57                 93.57         111.1%
  2. M&E and Goods                                           2.14                      2.14          3.62                  3.62          69.1%
  3. Land Acquisition and Resettlement                      28.65                     28.65         28.87                 28.87           0.8%
  4. Design, Supervision and Consulting                      3.30                      3.30          2.23                  2.23         -32.4%
  5. Others                                                  1.69                      1.69          2.67                  2.67          57.9%
C. Technical Assistant (TA)                                  0.64          0.38        1.02          0.65       0.38       1.03           0.6%
  1. TA Studies                                              0.47                      0.47          0.48                  0.48           1.5%
  - Optimization of Reservoir Operation                      0.12                      0.12          0.11                  0.11          -9.8%
  - Technology for Waterway Treatment                        0.35                      0.35          0.37                  0.37           5.3%
  2. Capacity Building - Training and Study Tour             0.17          0.38        0.55          0.17       0.38       0.55          -0.2%
Total Baseline Cost                                        198.64         91.97      290.61        232.17      98.07     330.24         13.6%
Physical & Price Contingencies                              12.99                     12.99
                                 Total Project Cost        211.63         91.97      303.60        232.17      98.07     330.24           8.8%
                       Interest during construction          7.37          7.78       15.15         11.88       1.68      13.56         -10.5%
                                      Front-end Fee                        0.25        0.25                     0.25       0.25           0.0%
               Total Project Cost                          219.00        100.00      319.00        244.05     100.00     344.05           7.9%
 Note: The actual costs in USD were converted from the annual costs in RMB by using the annual average exchange rates in the project period.
 Source: The Project Appraisal Document. The Project Management Office



                                                                            17
                 (b) Project Financing (USD million)
                                               At Appraisal                   Actual
                         Source
                                             Amount         %        Amount            %
                 Central Government            59.00        18.5%       76.10          22.1%
                 IBRD Loan                    100.00        31.3%      100.00          29.1%
                 Local Government             160.00        50.2%       84.92          24.7%
                 Domestic Bank Loan                          0.0%       83.03          24.1%
                         Total              319.00     100.0%       344.05   100.0%
                Source: The Project Appraisal Document. The Project Management Office




(c)         Loan Proceeds Allocation and Disbursement (USD)
                                                Original         Revised               Disbursed
 Category        Category Description
                                               Allocation       Allocation         USD           %
      -1      Works under Part A                41,190,000      58,190,000     63,238,837.57      100%
      -2      Goods under Part A                50,400,000      38,400,000     34,454,223.06     100%
      -3      CS and Training under Part C         380,000          380,000            380,000   100%
      -4      CHARGES                            7,780,000       2,780,000      1,676,939.37     100%
      FEF     FRONT END FEE                        250,000         250,000        250,000        100%
                   Totals                     100,000,000 100,000,000        100,000,000         100%
Note: The loan reallocation was made at the project restructuring on November 15, 2011.
Source: The World Bank




                                                   18
                                      Annex 2 Project Outputs

Summary of the Project Outputs
                                                                                 Implementation
     Component                                Scope
                                                                               Start         End
 Component A:          The Complex consists of the main elements of         06/03/2009   08/30/2013
 Shihutang Complex     (1) Class III navigation waterway of 38
                       kilometers, (ii) main dam of 523 meters with
                       of 23 sets of dam sluice gates, (iii) a Grade III
                       single ship lock for 1,000 ton vessels, (iv) a
                       powerhouse with the capacity of 120 MW and
                       average annual power generation of 527
                       million KWH, (v) two sections of 842 meter
                       earth dam and 83.5 meters concrete gravity
                       dam for connecting the river banks; and (vi)
                       dam crest access road of 1.64 kilometers.
                       The output is the same as appraised, except
                       that the dam crest road is 700 meters longer.
 Component B:          The flood protection work include (i) 43             01/15/2009   10/20/2012
 Flood Protection      kilometers of dikes, (ii) 45 kilometers of
 Works                 diversion canals, (iii) 8 sets of pumping
                       stations with total capacity of 5,980kW, and
                       (iv) 2 sets of free drainage sluices and 2 sets of
                       regulating sluices.
                        Outputs are the same as appraised, except for
                       six kilometers of diversion canals under the
                       original design being replaced by two pumping
                       stations.
 Component C:          Study One: Optimization of Reservoir                 12/20/2007   03/24/2009
 Capacity Building     Operation
                       Study Two: Technology for Waterway                   05/08/2012   08/15/2013
                       Treatment
                       Training and study tour. Total participants of       04/10/2009   06/15/2013
                       576 persons, including 541 persons of
                       domestic trainings and 35 times of oversea
                       trainings and study tours.
                       Outputs are the same as appraised, except that
                       more staff was trained..
Source: The Project Management Office




                                                    19
                             Annex 3 Economic and Financial Analysis

i.       Economic Analysis

 1.       The development objective (PDO) of the Project is to improve utilization of Gan River for
 more reliable freight transport and for cleaner energy production. The PDO is to be achieved through
 (i) improving inland waterway transport capacity and service levels for primary and secondary
 industries in the Nanchang-Ganzhou corridor of Gan River, and (ii) generating clean renewable
 electricity to help meet rapidly growing demand for energy in the region. There have been no changes
 in the PDOs and in main economic benefits since appraisal.

 2.       The main beneficiaries of the Project were the people and businesses engaged in river
 transportation, farming communities downstream and the local population that took advantage of the
 increased electricity generated, and employment opportunities offered, by the Project. The project’s
 beneficiary areas are mainly poor inland areas (these areas are the source of raw materials that are much
 of the cargo carried on the river). Therefore, the Project has particularly benefited poor regions and
 poor populations through providing local economic development opportunities and improving the
 living standard of the local population.

 3.       The principal measured benefits of the project are savings in transport costs as a result of larger
 vessels using the inland waterway, the economic value of the power, and avoided property and
 productivity losses due to floods. In 2013waterway traffic in the Gan River was 285 million tons,
 double the projected number. However, the on-going construction of the downstream Xiajiang
 Complex has blocked the river channel for navigation and the number of the ships passing the
 Shihutang Ship-lock has been very low; only 35,000 tons passed through Shihutang ship-lock in 2012-
 14. Freight traffic volume passing through Shihutang ship-lock in 2020 is projected to be 4.4 million
 tons, i.e., 8,800 vessels at an average of 500s ton per vessel.

 4.       Six turbines, with a total generation capacity of 120 MW, were installed on schedule in April
 2013. Electricity generation at the Shihutang Complex was 24.6 GWh in 2012, 284.0 GWh in 2013,
 and 326.0 GWh in 2014. These are lower than the values estimated at appraisal due to flooding in a
 tributary above the Shihutang Complex and on-going delay in reservoir filling. Electricity generation is
 projected to reach 520 GWh by 2020 and 598 GWh by 2034. The projected reduction in CO2
 emissions has been correspondingly adjusted downwards.

 5.       The Complex provides benefits of flood control in the lower reaches of the Gan River. Annual
 flood control benefits remain the same as estimated at appraisal. The new road on the Shihutang Dam
 benefits local people who cross Gan River in terms of reduced road transport cost and time saved; this
 relatively small amount of USD0.5 million per year Was not envisaged at appraisal.

 6.       Cost-benefit analysis conducted at appraisal estimated an EIRR of 14.9% as reported in the
 PAD. Using the same valuation methods and the same assumptions of travel cost savings per ton and
 the economic benefit of electricity generated per Kwh, EIRR at the ICR stage is estimated at 12.9%.
 The lower EIRR is mainly due to the lower waterway traffic in the Shihutang section and lower amount
 of electricity generated than projected at appraisal. However, the EIRR of 12.9% is higher than the cut
 off threshold of 12%.




                                                      20
ii.      Financial Analysis

 7.     Financial re-evaluation was carried out based on incurred investment costs, operations and
 maintenance (O&M) costs and revenue generated, as well as corresponding projections provided by
 JANA.

 8.      Project Costs. Project cost at completion was RMB2,234.80 million (USD344.05 million
 equivalent at the average exchange rate), 1 about 2.7% lower than that estimated at appraisal
 (RMB2,296.87 million). Project investments commenced in 2009, about one year later than anticipated
 and was completed in 2014, about two years later than anticipated at appraisal.

 9.      The Shihutang Complex is being operated by the Shihutang Complex Management Section
 (SCMS), which is a regional unit of JANA. SCMS has three groups for operating and maintaining the
 power house, ship-lock, and flood protection facilities. Currently there is 52 staff for operating and
 maintaining the power house. The operation cost (mainly for salaries and management) was about
 RMB6.7 million in 2012 and RMB13.3 million in 2013, and is projected to be about RMB20.0 million
 in 2014. It is projected to increase 3% per year. The cost of routine maintenance (daily maintenance and
 small rehabilitation) was RMB1.7 million in 2012 and RMB3.3 million in 2013, and is projected to
 RMB5.0 million in 2014. Routine maintenance costs are projected to increase by 3% per year. Periodic
 maintenance for replacement of the generators and dam sluice gates is scheduled every 5 years at a cost
 of RMB12.0 million.

 10.      Currently there are six staff operating and maintaining the ship-lock at an operating cost of
 about RMB1.2 million in 2012 and RMB2.3 million in 2013. Operating costs in 2014 are expected to
 be about RMB3.5 million and are expected to increase 3% per year. Staff will be increased to 32 staff
 for the full operation of the ship-lock. Routine maintenance costs were RMB0.33 million in 2012 and
 RMB0.67 million in 2013; it is estimated to be RMB1.0 million in 2014. Routine maintenance costs are
 expected to increase by 3% per year. Periodic maintenance is scheduled in every 5 years at a cost of
 RMB5.0 million.

 11.     Flood protection facilities are now operated and maintained by 16 staff. Routine maintenance
 costs were estimated at RMB2.4 million in 2014. The routine maintenance costs are expected to
 increase 3% per year. Periodic maintenance is scheduled every 5 years at a cost of RMB3.0 million.

 12.       Electricity Generation and Revenue. At the end of June 2014, total electricity generated was
 472 GWh: 25 GWh in 2012, 284 GWh in 2013, and 163 GWh in the first half of 2014. Power
 generation is forecasted to increase 25% in 2015, 5% in 2016–2020 and reach 520 GWh in 2020 (the
 designed capacity); it is expected to further increase by 1% a year from 2021 and reach 598 GWh in
 2034. 2 Power generated has been successfully networked with the regional electricity grid. 3 The
 temporary tariff for electricity uploaded to the grid is RMB0.37 per KWh and yielded revenues of
 RMB8.6 million in 2012, RMB99.7 million in 2013, and RMB114.5 million in 2014. The proposed
 tariff of RMB0.43 per KWh is planned to be applied in 2016.

 1
   During project implementation, the exchange rates of USD to RMB had significant reduction from RMB7.20 at
 appraisal to RMB6.154 at completion. The project cost in USD was calculated using annual investment by cost
 items and the exchange rates in corresponding years.
 2
   In general, the designed capacity can be exceeded by 10%–20%.
 3
   The agreement on uploading the electricity generated by the Project to the regional electricity network was
 initialized on December 15, 2011 between Jiangxi Power Company and Jiangxi Ganjiang Shihutang Water
 Resources Development Company.


                                                       21
13.     The Shihutang Complex ship-lock was opened to traffic in October 2011. However, due to the
on-going construction of the Xiajiang ship-lock downstream, traffic was much lower than expected.
The Xiajiang ship-lock project was completed in May 2014 and traffic at Shihutang is expected to
resume. According to the Gan River development plan, total cargo would reach 8.8 million ton in 2020,
of which about half is expected to pass through the Shihutang ship-lock. It is projected that 2020 traffic
of 4.4 million tons would grow annually at about 10% in 2021–2025, 8% in 2026–2030, 5% in 2031
and onwards. Currently, there is no charge for using the ship-lock.

14.     In the financial re-evaluation, 5% of the self-used electricity was removed from revenue
generation. In the financial re-evaluation the tolling and revenue generation for the ship-lock were not
considered.

15.     Financial Internal Rate of Return. Based on the above assumptions and projections, the
financial internal rate of return (FIRR) of the Project was recalculated with the following additional
assumptions: (i) project life of 25 years, including 6 years for construction and 22 years for operation
(with a three year overlap); (ii) half of the capital cost was treated as residual value of the investment
and was added to the last year; (iii) revenues from the ship-lock and sale of carbon credits were
excluded; and (iv) value added tax (VAT) of 17% on total sales and corporative income tax rate of 25%
on profits were taken into account. The recalculated FIRR was 3.5% before tax and 1.6% after tax,
compared to the 0.2% estimated at appraisal.4 The higher FIRR is mainly due to lower investment costs
and higher electricity tariffs. However, the recalculated FIRR is still lower than the cost of capital
(5.1%) estimated at appraisal.




4
    In the PAD, it didn’t specify that the FIRR of 0.2% was for before or after tax.


                                                            22
          Annex 4 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)         Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
            Names                           Title                   Unit
                                                                               Specialty
      Lending
      Wenlai Zhang          Transport Specialist,                  EASCS   TTL
      John Scales           Senior Transport Specialist            EASCS
      Syed I. Ahmed         Lead Counsel                           LEGES
      Mei Wang              Senior Counsel                         LEGES
      Han-Kang Yen          Financial and Economic Specialist      EASTE
      Jianjun Guo           Procurement Specialist                 EAPCO
      Yi Geng               Financial Management Specialist        EAPCO
      Junxue Chu            Senior Finance Officer                 LOAFC
      Haiyan Wang           Finance Officer                        LOADM
      Xuan Peng             Team Assistant                         EACCF
      Xiaofeng Li           Senior Program Assistant               EACCF
      Peishen Wang          Senior Environment Specialist          EASCS
      Juan Quintero         Senior Environment Specialist          EASRE
      Songling Yao          Social Specialist                      EASCS
      Chaohua Zhang         Senior Social Specialist               EASSO
      Ximing Zhang          Water Resources Specialist             EASCS
      Alessandro Palmieri   Lead Dam Specialist                    OPCQC
      Paul Amos             Transport Adviser                              Consultant
      Kek Choo Chung        Waterway Specialist                            Consultant
      Jiang Dai             Hydropower Specialist                          Consultant
      Jianming Zhao         Geotechnical Specialist                        Consultant
      Hongkun Yang          Hydro-engineering Specialist                   Consultant
      Jianping Zhao         Lead Energy Specialist                 EASCS   Quality Reviewer
      Marc Juhel            Lead Transport Specialist              ETWTR   Peer Reviewer
      Jose Barbero          Senior Transport Specialist            LCSTR   Peer Reviewer

      Supervision/ICR
      Bank Staff
      Wenlai Zhang          Sr. Transport. Specialist              EASCS   TTL
      Songling Yao          Senior Social Development Specialist   EASCS
      Yi Geng               Sr Financial Management Specialist     EASFM
      Xuan Peng             Program Assistant                      EACCF
      Jianjun Guo           Senior Procurement Specialist          EASR2
      Ning Yang             Environmental Specialist               EASCS
      Aimin Hao             Social Development Specialist          EASCS
      Yuhui Jiao            Transport Specialist                   EASCS   TTL
      Limei Sun             Program Assistant                      EACCF
      Jian Xie              Senior Transport Specialist
      Non-Bank Staff
      Jiang Dai             Hydropower Specialist                          Consultant
      Hongkun Yang          Civil Works Specialist                         Consultant

                                                          23
      Jianming Zhao           Geotechnical Specialist                                  Consultant
      Baoru Song              Project Management Consultant                            Consultant
      Chuntai Zhang           Economist/Financial Specialist                           Consultant

(b)        Staff Time and Cost
                                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                   Stage of Project Cycle                             USD Thousands (including travel
                                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                                            and consultant costs)
               Lending
               FY07                                            23.85                                 52,418
               FY08                                            30.98                                 80,645
               FY09                                             4.30                                 23,823
                            Total:                             59.13                                156,886
               Supervision/ICR
               FY09                                             8.00                                 22,506
               FY10                                            14.02                                 33,002
               FY11                                             2.23                                 10,485
               FY12                                            10.96                                 19,820
               FY13                                             7.87                                 19,481
               FY14                                            11.08                                 24,874
               FY15                                             3.83                                 13,749
                            Total:                             57.99                                143,917


(c)       Bank Missions
  No                           Mission                           Dates (begin-end)         Mission Leader
   1                  Reconnaissance Mission                    September 5-6, 2006          John Scales
   2                    Identification Mission                  January 21-26, 2007         Zhang Wenlai
   3                     Preparation Mission                      May 21-25, 2007           Zhang Wenlai
   4                    Pre-appraisal Mission                  September 24-28, 2007        Zhang Wenlai
   5                      Appraisal Mission                     February 12-15, 2008        Zhang Wenlai
   6                Pre-Implementation Mission                 December 18-19, 2008         Zhang Wenlai
   7          Supervision Mission (Launch Workshop)*              April 20-23, 2009         Zhang Wenlai
   8                     Supervision Mission                   November 9-13, 2009          Zhang Wenlai
   9                     Supervision Mission                      April 21-23, 2010         Zhang Wenlai
  10                     Supervision Mission                     October25-28, 2010         Zhang Wenlai
  11                     Supervision Mission                      April 26-29, 2011         Zhang Wenlai
  12                     Supervision Mission                    October 10-13, 2011         Zhang Wenlai
  13                     Supervision Mission                      April 23-27,2012          Zhang Wenlai
  14                     Supervision Mission                     October 22-24,2012         Zhang Wenlai
  15                     Supervision Mission                      April 22-26,2013           Jiao Yuhui
  16                     Supervision Mission                      December 23 -26            Jiao Yuhui
  17                     Supervision Mission                     June 16 – 20, 2014          Jiao Yuhui
* The mission was led by Ede Ijjasz-Vasquez (Sector Manager)




                                                        24
          Annex 5 Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Introduction

1.     Upon completion, the Jiangxi project management office (JPMO) prepared the Borrower’s
Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) Report for the Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and
Hydropower Complex Project (the Project),5 which was submitted to the World Bank on July 21, 2014.
The Borrower’s ICR report was prepared in Chinese and generally in good quality. The Borrower’s
ICR report covered many aspects of the project preparation, implementation, and sustainability.
Following are the key points in the Borrower’s ICR report.

Achievements of the Project Development Objectives

2.       Highly relevant with government’s strategy. The project design and implementation was
highly relevant with government’s IWT sub-sector development strategy. The Project was a key project
for the whole Gan River IWT development, which was listed in the MOT’s and Jiangxi Provincial 11 th
Five Year Plans. The Project was also in line with the government’s strategy of develo ping clean
energy. In Jiangxi Province, IWT of Gan River was not well developed and utilized, and the power
supply could not meet the fast socioeconomic development. The construction and completion of the
Project has well improved the IWT condition in middle section of Gan River and also alleviated the
electricity shortage in the project area.

3.      Achievements of project outputs and objectives. All project components were completed as
anticipated at appraisal. The main dam and connecting bank dams were fully completed in March 2013;
the powerhouse started full operation in April 2013; all flood protection works were fully completed in
September 2012; and the capacity building programs were implemented as planned. The anticipated
project development objectives have been mostly achieved.

4.      Socioeconomic benefits. The Project has brought substantial socioeconomic impacts to the
project area. The Project has improved the IWT channel to Grade III, which has significantly reduced
the transport cost; The electricity generated by the powerhouse has alleviated the power shortage and
supported the industry and agriculture development in the project area; About 55,900 mu arable land
has improved its against flood capability from 5-years to 10–30-years floods; The dam crest access road
has shortened the travel distance of 12 kilometers between Wanhe Town and Taihe County. The total
beneficiaries are estimated at 150,000 people, including 50,000 direct beneficiaries.

5.      Overall assessment. The project design and implementation was highly relevant with
government’s IWT sub-sector development strategy. All project components were completed as
anticipated at appraisal. The project cost was controlled under the original budget. The Project has
brought substantial socioeconomic impacts to the project area. The operation has clear institutional and
financial arrangement.

Project Risks and Sustainability

6.      IWT sub-sector development. In the national 11th Five Year Plan, the waterway has been
designated as a key development sub-sector, especially for container, coal, crude oil, and iron ore

5
  The JPMO. June 2014. The Borrower’s Implementation Completion and Results Report for the World Bank
financed Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and Hydropower Project (P1010988—CHA).


                                                    25
transportation. Central and project provincial governments' commitment to IWT development has kept
strong. The IWT development along Gan River has been experiencing a booming stage, which has
ensured the strong sustainability of the Project.

7.      Initial operation of Shihutang Complex. The Shihutang Complex is now operated by
Shihutang Complex Management Section (SCMS), which is a regional unit of the JANA with full
financing by the government fiscal allocations. Currently, the SCMS has about 52 staff in responsible
for the management and operation of the powerhouse, ship lock, water discharge sluices, river banks,
flood protection facilities, etc. The operation and maintenance capacity of the Shihutang Complex is
adequate.

8.      Capacity building. The SCMS has regular training programs to its staff, including annual
domestic study tour and training. In addition, the JANA invites experts to the project site to provide
technical trainings on various aspects of the facility operation and maintenance.

Lesson Learned

9.      The Project was well implemented and achieved its objectives anticipated at appraisal. The
major lessons for ensuring the success of the project implementation included.

10.     Opening mind and learning. The Project was a key engineering project in the provincial IWT
development plan, as well as the biggest one in terms of investment. It was also the first one in the
Jiangxi IWT development, which was financed by the World Bank loan. All participants for
implementing the Project well adopted related national and provincial technical standards, procedure,
and legislation; strengthened construction quality and safety controls; and monitored the
implementation progress and timely adjusted the working plan.

11.     Restricting project management. According to the Project Administration Manual, the project
implementation restricted the project management throughout the implementation period, including
closely followed the implementation procedure, well designed contract packages, strictly carried out
procurements, enhanced quality and quantity control, and actively revised the project design and
approved project documents, and timely approved contract variations and disbursements.

12.    Paying enough attention to local socioeconomic development. The Project has substantial
impacts to the local transport development, revenue generation of local governments, flood protection
improvement, urbanization and livelihood improvements, etc. The project design and implementation
paid adequate attentions to such socioeconomic development in the project area. The project
achievements and impacts have proved that the Project is a key project in the history of Jiangxi IWT
development.

13.      Enhancing coordination. The project implementation enhanced the coordination with design
institutes, the contractors, and the local governments. Due to lowest-price bidding and serious floods,
the project implementation experienced some financial problem. The JPMO timely coordinated with
related government agencies and the contractors to optimize the project design and solve the problem in
contractor’s budget shortages.

14.      Strengthening ecology protection. The project implementation well complained with related
government’s and World Bank’s environment policies and requirements, including avoiding large earth
works, reducing soil erosion, minimizing land acquisition, recovering temporary land used by the
project implementation, and protected or rescued about 700 camphor trees.


                                                   26
15.     Intensifying communication. The Project implementation intensified communications with the
World Bank and related government agencies, like provincial financial department, audit authority,
quality inspection. The JPMO regularly reported the project progress to the related government
agencies, as well as invited them to visit the project site annually. Consequently, the project
implementation received various constructive guidance and timely supports from these government
agencies.

Recommendations

16.     Lowest price bidding. While applying the Bank’s procurement policy and procedure of lowest
price bidding, bidding prices for most of the contract packages were lower than estimated. Some of
them were lower than reasonable price. This might cause problems in the project implementation, like
delay in commencement, unreasonable contract variation, low construction quality, etc. Likely, this
problem has happened to other similar projects. It is suggested that the World Bank might design and
conduct related study to look for effective and efficient approach, which may well compliance with
World Bank policy and also avoid the problem above.

17.     Depreciation of foreign currency. In the project implementation period, the US$ against RMB
had significant depreciation, which led to shortage of the project fund. For solving this problem, the
government and JANA made special efforts to increase the fiscal allocation and borrow commercial
loan from domestic bank. It is suggested that the World Bank might establish special fund/loan for
supplementing the fund shortage caused by foreign currency depreciation.




                                                  27
          Annex 6 Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                        28
                          Annex 7 List of Supporting Documents

1. The World Bank, August 14, 2008, Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the Amount
   of US$100 million to the People’s Republic of China for a Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and
   Hydropower Complex Project.
2. Loan Agreement. November 28, 2008, Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and Hydropower Complex
   Project between People’s Republic of China and International Bank for Reconstruction and
   Development.
3. Project Agreement. November 28, 2008, Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and Hydropower Complex
   Project between People’s Republic of China and International Bank for Reconstruction and
   Development.
4. The World Bank. May 2006. Country Partnership Strategy for the People’s Republic of China for
   the Period of FY2006-FY2010. Approved by the Board on May 23, 2006.
5. The World Bank. October 2012. Country Partnership Strategy for the People’s Republic of China
   for the Period of FY2013-FY2016. Report No. 67566-CN.
6. The World Bank, November 15, 2011, Office Memorandum – Restructuring Paper for “Jiangxi
   Shihutang Navigation and Hydropower Complex Project (Loan 7580-CN)”.
7. The World Bank, November 15, 2011, Fax to the MOF, China: Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and
   Hydropower Complex Project (Loan 7580-CN) – Amendment to the Loan Agreement.
8. January 15, 2010. Spanish Carbon Fund. Clean Development Mechanism Certified Emission
   Reductions Purchase Agreement (Jiangxi Shihutang Hydropower Project), between Jiangxi Gan
   River shihutang Water Resource Multipurpose Development Company Limited and International
   Bank for Reconstruction and Development (as trustee of the Spanish Carbon Fund).
9. The World Bank, ISR #1— #8. Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and Hydropower Complex Project
   (P101988).
10. The World Bank, all mission AMs. Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and Hydropower Complex
    Project (P101988).
11. The World Bank, July 18, 2012, Fax to the JANA. China: Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and
    Hydropower Project (Ln No. 7580- CHA) — Audit Report for the year ended December 31, 2011.
    The project task team.
12. The JPMO. June 2014. The Borrower’s Implementation Completion and Results Report for the
    World Bank financed Jiangxi Shihutang Navigation and Hydropower Project (P1010988—CHA).
13. The JPMO. all semi-annual project progress reports. The World Bank financed Jiangxi Shihutang
    Navigation and Hydropower Project (P1010988—CHA).
14. The JPMO. Completion Report on Land Acquisition and Resettlement for the Gan River Shihutang
    Navigation and Hydropower Complex Project.
15. The JANA. February 2008. Resettlement Plan of Shihutang Hydropower Project on Ganjiang River
    in Jiangxi Province. China Pearl River Water Resources Planning, Design and Survey Co. Ltd.
    Jiangxi Provincial Water Conservancy Planning and Designing Institute
16. The JANA, October 2007, ENVIRONMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT (Executive Summary) of
    Shihutang Hydropower Project on the Gan River. CCCC SECOND HARBOR CONSULTANTS CO.,
   LTD. JIANGXI PROVINCIAL WATER RESOURCE PLANNING AND DESIGN INSTITUTE



                                               29
                                                                                                                             CHINA
                                              JIANGXI SHIHUTANG NAVIGATION AND HYDROPOWER COMPLEX PROJECT
                                                                                                 WATER SYSTEM ON THE GAN RIVER                                                                             SELECTED CITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROVINCE CAPITAL
                                                  SHIHUTANG DAM
                                                                                                                   GRADE I NAVIGATIONAL CHANNEL                                                            EXISTING EXPRESSWAYS
                                                  EXISTING DAMS
                                                                                                                   GRADE II NAVIGATIONAL CHANNEL                                                           EXPRESSWAYS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
                                                  FUTURE DAMS                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL ROADS
                                                                                                                   GRADE III NAVIGATIONAL CHANNEL
                                                  GAN RIVER BASIN                                                                                                                                          RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES


                         114°                                            115°                                                 116°                                                       117°                                                                    118°



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30°
            30°
                                                                                                                                                                         r
                                                                                                                                                                     Rive
                                                                                                                                                                   g
                                                                                                                                                            an
                                                                                                                                                         Ch
                                HUBEI                                                                  Ruichang
                                                                                                                                Jiujiang
                                                                                                                                                Hukou

                                          Tongshan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ZHEIJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jingdezhen
                                                                       Wuning

                                                                                                                  Wucheng
                                                Xiushui                                                                                       Poyang
                                                                                                                                                Hu                           Poyang
            29°

                                                                                                   Anyi
                                                                                                                                                           Ruihong

                                                                                                                               NANCHANG

                                                Tonggu
                                                                                        Gao’an                                                                                                                                                  Shangrao



                                                                                                                            Longtoushan                                                         Yingtan
                                                                                                                          Fengcheng
                                                    Wanzai
                                                                                                            Zhangshu                                     Linchuan                                                                                                                          28°
            28°
                                                                                                                                                                                Jinxi
                                                                     Xinyu                               Yongtai
                                                                                             r




                                                                                                       Xingan
                                                                                           Ri
                                                                                          ve




                                              Yichun
                                                                                      n
                                                                                   Ga




                        Pingxiang
                                                                       Xiajiang

                                                   Anfu                                                           Le’an
                                                                                            Yongfeng

                                                                                                                                                   Nanfeng
                                                                                        Jishui

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FUJIAN
                             Lianhua                                 Ji’an

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           27°
            27°

                                                                                     Shihutang                                                          Guangchang
                                                                             Taihe
                  Ninggang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0               25             50                 75


                                       Jinggangshan                    Taihe                                                                                                                                                           KILOMETERS

                                                                 Wan’an
            HUNAN                                                      Wan'an                                             Ningdu
                                                                                                                                                                                           117°                                                                    118°


                                                                                                                                          Shicheng
                                                                         Ga




                                                          Suichuan
                                                                              n River




                                                                                                                                                                                                     RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                   FEDERATION

                                                                                                Yudu                                                                   26°
            26°                                                                Maodian                                                                                                                                                                                  HEILONGJIANG
                                                              Ganzhou
                                                 Shangyou
                                                                                          Xiashan                                    Ruijin                                              MONGOLIA
                                    Chongyi                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JILIN
                                                       Nankang
                                                                                                                            Huichang                                                                                                 OL                      LIAONING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MO                                              D.P.R. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEIJING                                  KOREA
                                         Dayu                                Xinfeng                                                                                                                                                  BEIJING

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HEBEI    TIANJIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Yellow       KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                        NINGXIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHANDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sea
                                                                                                                                                                               QINGHAI
                                                                                                       Anyuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                GANSU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    HENAN                                           East
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SHAANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             G




                                                                                                                                                                       25°                                                                         ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SU




            25°                                                                                           Xunwu                                                                                                                                                                    China
                                                             Longnan                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHANGHAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IN




                                                                                                                                                                                        SICHUAN                                                                  ZHEJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Q




                                                                                  Dingnan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NG




                                          Quannan                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Area of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  O
                                                                                                                                                                                                           CH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JIANGXI              Map
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                    GUIZHOU                                               FUJIAN
                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                           the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                           World Bank. The boundaries,             YUNNAN                                                                                 TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                           colors, denominations and                                                  GUANGXI          GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                           any other infor mation shown                                                                                                           PACIFIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 35284R




                                                                                                                                           on this map do not imply, on                                                                         HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OCEAN
                                                          GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                           the part of The W orld Bank                                                                       MACAO
                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the
JUNE 2008




                                                                                                                                           legal status of any territor y,              LAO         VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                           or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                           acceptance of such                            P.D.R.
                             114°                                              115°                                                116°    boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HAINAN                                  PHILIPPINES
