 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14711

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 04/20/2015

               Country: China
             Project ID: P101988                                                    Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Jiangxi Shihutang             Project Costs (US$M):                       319                 344
                         Navigation And
                         Hydropower Complex
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                        100                 100
      Sector Board:      Transport                    Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                  09/25/2008
                                                              Closing Date:              06/30/2014          06/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Ports; waterways and shipping (60%); Hydropower (40%)
          Theme(s):        Other rural development (33%); Infrastructure services for private sector development (33%);
                           Climate change (17%); Water resource management (17%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Peter Nigel Freeman     Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 "To improve utilization of the Gan River in the Jiangxi Province of the Borrower for more reliable freight transport and
for cleaner energy production through: (a) improving inland waterway transport capacity and service levels for primary
and secondary industries in the Nanchang-Ganzhou corridor of the Gan River; and (b) generating renewable
electricity to help meet rapidly growing demand for energy in the region." (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, p.5; Project
Appraisal Document p.3).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 Component 1. Construction of Shihutang Complex (appraisal cost US$209.5 million; actual cost US$198.3 million)
was planned as a single integrated infrastructure unit that would form a reservoir with a designed normal pool water
elevation of 56.5 meters and pool storage of about 166.8 million cubic meters. The complex would consist of the main
elements of 23 sets of dam sluice gates, a Grade III single ship lock to accommodate 1000-dwt vessels, a
powerhouse with a capacity of 120 MW, a connection dam of 931 meters, and a dam crest access road of 937 meters.


Component 2. Flood Protection Works (appraisal cost US$80.1 million; actual cost US$130.95 million) was to consist
of approximately 43 kilometers of dikes and 56 kilometers of diversion canals, about six sets of pumping stations, two
sets of free drainage sluices and two sets of regulating sluices.

Component 3. Technical Assistance (appraisal cost US$1.02 million; actual cost US$1.03 million) included two
studies on optimization of reservoir operation and technology for waterway treatment, training and study tours to build
institutional and technical capacity of the Jiangxi Administration of Navigation Affairs (JANA) and the Project
Management Office for the Project (JPMO).

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project cost: The total project cost was US$344.05 million at closure, about 8% higher than the the appraisal
estimate of US$319 million as a result of exchange rate variation due to depreciation of US dollar against the RMB.

Financing: The IBRD loan of US$100 million was fully disbursed at closure as appraised.

Borrower contribution : At appraisal, the project was expected to be financed by the central government (18.5% of the
appraised project cost), and local government (50.2%). The central government increased its financial support from
the original US$59 million to US$76.1 million, and JANA obtained a commercial bank loan of US$83 million to
supplement counterpart funds, which contributed 24.1% of project costs. The direct local government contribution was
therefore lowered to US$84.9 million or 24.7% of the total project cost (ICR, p.4,18).

Dates: The project closed on time, June 30, 2014. In November 2011, the project was restructured to reallocate loan
proceeds and to modify the disbursement percentage. Savings in Bank loan proceeds under the categories of Goods
under Part A and Interest during Construction were reallocated to Category (1) – Works under Part A, and the
disbursement percentage for Category (1) was increased from 60% to 90%. This reallocation reduced the need for
higher cost domestic commercial loans (ICR, p.3).

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
The project development objectives were consistent with the focus on inland waterway transport development in the
Government of China's 11th Five-Year Plan, which also recognized the high energy efficiency and low greenhouse
gas emissions associated with water transport. Jiangxi Province is a land-locked province in south-central China,
which was one of the six economically underdeveloped central provinces supported by GOC’s “Rise of Central China”
initiative at the time of appraisal. The priority of the province to improve navigation capacity on Gan River was
reflected in the Jiangxi Inland Waterway Navigation Development Plan (2006), and Jiangxi Provincial Five Year Plans.
The project development objectives remain relevant to the World Bank Group's FY13-16 Country Partnership Strategy
for China, which aimed at improving transport connectivity for more balanced regional development, in particular
inland waterway. The objectives were also in line with the main priorities of the Bank's FY06-10 Country Partnership
Strategy at appraisal that supported development of inland waterways to help reduce transport costs and
transport-generated pollution.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Modest.
The causal chain between the activities financed by the project and the outputs and outcomes related to the
attainment of the project development objective was not convincing, because the objective of improving utilization of
the Gan River in the Jiangxi Province for more reliable freight transport, as the ICR p.12 correctly defines, was too
broad and beyond the scope of the project. The sub-objectives were more specific, with clear linkages to the activities
under the project, in particular construction of an integrated navigation and hydropower complex at Shihutang was
expected to improve inland waterway transport capacity and service levels in the selected corridor, as well as
generate renewable electricity. Construction was to be carried out along with flood protection works (Component 2) to
enhance flood protection in the vicinity.

The project design combined ship lock and hydropower station development as a way to support the operations and
maintenance of the ship lock and the dam through revenue from power generation. Jiangxi Province does not charge
ships for use of the ship lock in order to attract more low value commodities to inland waterway transport from other
transport modes (ICR, p.14).

The ICR p.12, however, find that the project design failed to take into account the impacts from the construction of the
Xiajiang Dam, located 90km downstream of Shihutang. The Xiajiang Dam was identified for upgrade along with the
Shihutang complex in the 2006 Jiangxi Inland Waterway Navigation Development Plan, and was in preparation stage
at the time of project appraisal (ICR, p.1). During implementation, the inland waterway transport through Shihutang
was temporarily suspended due to the works started at Xiajiang.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   "To improve utilization of the Gan River in the Jiangxi Province of the Borrower for more reliable freight transport
and for cleaner energy production through: (a) improving inland waterway transport capacity and service levels for pri
mary and secondary industries in the Nanchang- Ganzhou corridor of the Gan River; and (b) generating renewable
electricity to help meet rapidly growing demand for energy in the region."

a) To improve utilization of the Gan River in the Jiangxi Province of the Borrower for more reliable freight transport
through improving inland waterway transport capacity and service levels for primary and secondary i ndustries in the
Nanchang- Ganzhou corridor of the Gan River . Modest.

Outputs
  The capacity of 38km inland waterway transport channel was upgraded from Grade V to Grade III as planned.
    The works included main dam of 523 meters with of 23 sets of dam sluice gates, and a Grade III single ship lock
    for 1,000 ton vessels.
  The flood protection work included 43 kilometers of dikes, 45 kilometers of diversion canals, 8 sets of pumping
    stations with total capacity of 5,980kW, and 2 sets of free drainage sluices and 2 sets of regulating sluices. Six
    kilometers of diversion canals under the original design were replaced by two pumping stations due to land a
    cquisition issues.
  The study on optimization of reservoir operation was prepared as planned, and adopted by JANA. It provided
    technical support for future reservoir management and the operation plan to optimize power station operation and
    IWT navigation operation.
  The study to identify measures to treat 17 km river channel downside from Shihutang Dam was prepared as
    planned, and approved by JANA. It was applied to the ship lock design and power station design in the early
    stage of the project.
  593 of staff were trained (the target was 182) in the areas that included procurement, safeguards monitoring and
    mitigation, navigation channel maintenance and management, and hydropower station management.
  Technical assistance was provided in the development of management and operational procedures, regulations,
    and manuals.

Outcome
  The volume of cargo passing the Shihutang ship lock during low water season between October and December
    was 9,000 tons, less than 1% of the target of 1.03 million tons. This was due to the fact that the inland waterway
    transport had to be temporarily suspended until May 2014, due to the development of Xiajiang ship lock 90 km
    downstream from the project-supported area on Gan River. The ICR observes that the full capacity will only be
    utilized after the improvements of Gan River are completed by 2020 (Results Framework).
  The navigable time per year or 1,000-ton vessels on the 38km upgraded channel increased from 27% to 95%, as
    targeted.
  4,389ha of crop fields were protected against 10-year flood, as planned
  The achievement of the two outcome targets of increases in the volume of cargo and containers along the Gan
    River cannot be be attributed to the project, as noted by the ICR's Results Framework. The volume of cargo
    increased from 85,000 tons to 285,500, well beyond the target of 131,600 tons, and the container volume
    measured in TEUs (Twenty- Foot equivalent Unit) increased from 50,625 to 244,000 at project closure,
    surpassing the target of 237,000.


b) To improve utilization of the Gan River in the Jiangxi Province of the Borrower for cleaner energy production
through generating renewable electricity to help meet rapidly growing demand for energy in the region . Substantial.

Outputs
  A powerhouse with a capacity of 120 MW and average annual power generation of 527 million KWH was built.
    The works also included two sections of 842 meter earth dam and 83.5 meters of concrete gravity dam for
    connecting the river banks, as well as a dam crest access road of 1.64 kilometers, which was 700 meters longer
    than appraised.

Outcome
  284 GWh of hydropower was generated at project closure, which was 60% of the target of 472GWh in 2013. This
    corresponded to 220,000 ton reduction of carbon emission, which was about half the target of 446,170 tons. The
    outcome targets were not achieved due to delays in generator installation and operation caused by unexpected
    floods (ICR, Results Framework). The electricity generation for 2014 (based on generation of 350 GWH in the
    first ten months) was estimated to be 400 GWH, i.e., 85% of end-of project target (ICR, p.9). The ICR further
    adds that the annual power generation is expected to increase 5% each year between 2016 and 2020 to reach
    the design capacity.
  As an additional benefit provided by the dam crest access road, the ICR p. 9 reports that it shortened travel
    distance between Wanhe Town and Taihe County by about 12 kilometers, directly benefiting about 50,000
    pedestrians and vehicle users (ICR, p.9).
5. Efficiency:

The economic internal rate of return (EIRR) is estimated to be 12.9% at project closure as compared with 14.9% at
appraisal. The economic analysis used the same valuation methods and the same assumptions of travel cost savings
per ton, as well as the economic benefits of electricity generated per KWh. The lower ex-post EIRR is mainly due to
the lower waterway traffic in the Shihutang section (due to construction of the downstream Xiajiang Complex, which
significantly blocked the river channel for navigation) and lower electricity generated than projected at appraisal (due
to the delayed start-up of power generation).

The project closed on schedule, and the planned works were completed by project closure. There were delays during
implementation, which were beyond the project control, i.e., major floods in June 2010 resulted in the project falling
four months behind schedule by 2012 (including the installation of the first and second generator units), and spring
floods in March 2012 delayed power generation and the implementation of flood protection works.

Efficiency is assessed as substantial.


 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

      Appraisal                      Yes                                      14.9%                                    91%

      ICR estimate                   Yes                                      12.9%                                    96%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives is rated high, and that of design is modest. The project substantially helped improve
utilization of the Gan River in the Jiangxi Province for cleaner energy production, however only modestly for more
reliable freight transport. Efficiency is assessed as substantial.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

     Shihutang Complex. The central and provincial governments' commitment to inland waterway transport
      development remains strong, and there are clear institutional and financial arrangements for the operation and
      maintenance of the Shihutang Complex, and hydropower facilities, as reported by the ICR p.11. In particular, the
      Shihutang complex is operated and maintained by the Jiangxi Port Investment Company, with experienced
      personnel to operate and maintain these facilities. The company prepared and adopted the Operations and
      Maintenance Plan and the Emergency Preparedness Plan in compliance with the Bank policy on Dam Safety. A
      complete set of monitoring equipment was installed and a professional institute was assigned to conduct routine
      dam safety monitoring (ICR, p.8).

     Flood protection facilities that included dikes, diversion canals, pumping stations, and drainage sluices are
      operated and maintained by JANA with clear institutional and financial arrangements, as reported by the ICR
      p.11.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project design was built on other inland waterways and hydro-electric Bank -supported operations in
China, incorporating the following lessons: (i) avoidance of re-designs and consequent delays by a thorough
investigation of geo-technical conditions for the foundations of dams; (ii) provision of expert guidance on design
and operational issues of dams through the use of a Dam Safety Panel; and (iii) ensuring stronger coordination
among various agencies involved in water resource management and collaboration with local municipal
governments for land acquisition and resettlement.
The weaknesses at entry identified by the ICR p.12 included: (i) the project team did not take into account the
impact of the construction plans of the Xiajiang Dam on the Shihutang waterway development; (ii) M&E design
was weak, as two outcome indicators were not clearly attributable to the project; and (iii) the implementation
schedule did not anticipate and allow for delays, for example due to flooding.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The ICR p.13 reports that the project team carried out semi-annual missions with the required expertise and
follow-up technical missions. The ICR finds that the implementation status reports were of good quality. The Bank
monitored compliance with safeguards and fiduciary policies closely and provided guidance on the proper
implementation of the Environment Management Plan (EMP) and the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The Bank
also provided guidance to Jiangxi Project Management Office (JPMO) to improve the quality of bidding
documents.

The ICR p.13 finds that the project team should have paid greater attention to the appropriateness of the project
development objective and the results framework, and revised them through project restructuring. Also, the Bank
should have advised the borrower to update the estimates for bidding of civil works contracts for the construction
of the dam, power plant, and ship lock on the basis of technical specifications and bill of quantities. The actual
works contract values substantially increased during implementation (ICR, p.13)


   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The ICR p.13 finds the Government's performance to be satisfactory due to the level of its commitment to the
project. The Ministry of Transport (MoT) provided technical and financial support to the project. MoT increased the
central government’s financial contribution to the project during implementation and agreed to the Province’s
request for restructuring the loan.

The ICR p.13 notes a high level of attention to the project from Jiangxi province. In particular, Jiangxi
Transportation Department, Jiangxi DRC, and Jiangxi Provincial Financial Department provided adequate support
for project preparation and implementation. At the municipal level, the county government provided efficient
support by assigning dedicated staff to assist the Jiangxi Project Management Office (JPMO) in monitoring,
surveys, and overall compliance with safeguards.


   Government Performance Rating                              Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project was implemented by the Jiangxi Project Management Office (JPMO) at the Jiangxi Administration
of Navigation Affairs, one of the Jiangxi Provincial Communication Department's sub-administrations responsible
for waterway development and maintenance. The ICR p.14 finds that JPMO was highly motivated and worked
proactively on all technical and management tasks, complied with Bank safeguard policies, coordinated with local
governments, prepared progress reports, and supervised project implementation. After major floods in 2010,
JPMO worked closely with the contractors to bring project implementation back on schedule and under budget.
JPMO and the supervision engineers established an internal quality control mechanism during the project
implementation, which assured a good quality of construction (ICR, p.14).

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory
10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
    The Results Framework in the PAD included: three project outcome indicators to assess the benefits of IWT
channel improvement, and reduction of carbon emission by generating renewable hydropower. Two of these
indicators, however, as noted by the ICR p.6, could not be attributed to the project, in particular the increase in volume
of cargo and volume of container traffic along the Gan River. In case of the third indicator (increase in cargo passing
through the Shihutang ship lock during the low water season), despite a stronger connection with the project outcome,
it was dependent on external factors that were not taken into account at design, in particular, a gradual development
strategy of the Gan River inland waterway transport.

The intermediate indicators included the increase in navigable time in the upgraded 38 km channel for 1000-ton
vessels; annual output from the project hydropower station; area of farmland protected against 10-year floods; and the
number of completed project studies and staff trained.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The ICR p.6 reports that the M&E system was implemented as designed. JPMO collected data from the relevant
authorities semiannually/ annually, analyzed them, and incorporated the results in the semi-annual project progress
reports.

c. M&E Utilization:
  The M&E was used to assess progress during project implementation (ICR, p.6).

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
This was a Category “A” project that triggered five safeguard policies – OP4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP4.12
Involuntary Resettlement, OP4.37 Safety of Dams, OP4.04 Natural Habitats, and OP4.11 Physical Cultural
Resources.

Environmental Assessment and Management : The ICR p. 7 reports that the implementation of the environmental
safeguards was 'satisfactory'. Environmental safeguards documents, acceptable to the Bank, were prepared,
comprising: (a) Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report; (b) Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for Flood
Control Areas; (c) Environmental Management Plan for Navigation/Hydro Complex; and (d) Environmental
Assessment Executive Summary. JPMO, with the assistance of an external environmental monitoring consultant,
closely supervised implementation of the EMP. A Dam Safety Panel was appointed to provide professional review and
advice during the design and implementation of the dam, and contributed significantly to ensuring compliance with the
Dam Safety safeguard policy (ICR, p.7). The ICR p.7 reports that construction management and post-construction
rehabilitation were managed well. Civil works contracts included items related to environmental protection and water
resources conservation. The JPMO made commendable efforts, as described by the ICR p.7, in the protection of
natural habitats, through further survey and protection of camphor trees, construction of fish channel and reproduction
facilities, and restoration/enhancement of fish habitats. JPMO retained an external environmental monitoring
consultant and an external water and soil preservation consultant to monitor environmental safeguard compliance.
The monitoring reports showed that the mitigation measures were properly implemented and no significant residual
impacts remained (ICR,p.7).

Social Safeguards. The ICR p.6 reports that the project resettlement complied with Bank requirements, as confirmed
by the independent external agency, which monitored the resettlement activities and provided comprehensive reports
every six months. A Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, was prepared to guide the implementation of
land acquisition and resettlement. Upon completion, the project permanently acquired 654.9 ha (appraisal estimate
was 615 ha) and temporarily acquired 70.6 ha (appraisal estimate 330 ha). In all, 141 households comprising 515
people were relocated (appraisal estimate 169 households comprising 597 people). According to the ICR p.10, some
measurements were proposed to mitigate the potential negative impacts and assist the vulnerable people, in
particular restoration of their households and livelihoods, and building a fish pass area. Some farmland was elevated
to reduce inundation. The ICR p.6 further reports that some activities were behind the schedule, especially the
construction of the Huangkeng resettlement site and land acquisition for the Dongmen Canal in the Wanhe protection
area. Land acquisition for the Donggang diversion canal (proposed for flood control) experienced difficulties that led to
a revision in the engineering design to build a pumping station instead; this was due to refusal from a number of
households to the resettlement plan, as was subsequently clarified by the project team.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement: The ICR p.7 assesses procurement under the project as satisfactory. A procurement agent was
recruited to assist JPMO on procurement activities. The procurement plan was updated several times based on
implementation needs. The Jiangxi Provincial Communication Department empowered JPMO to approve variations
and claims below RMB5 million. JPTD and JPFD approved advance payments on materials available on site to help
contractors maintain a healthy cash flow during construction peaks. Upon completion, a total of
35 contract packages were procured, including 8 for civil works, 21 for goods, and 6 for consulting services. The ICR
p.15 discusses issues raised by the Borrower with respect to the selection of the lowest price bidder as per Bank's
procurement guidelines, in particular that bids lower than reasonable price might cause construction delays and low
quality. The project team indicated that the Bank requires the minimum qualification requirements to be set to ensure
that the lowest evaluative bidder has the requisite experience and performance record and technical and financial
capacity to successfully execute the contract.

Financial management. The ICR p.7 assesses the project's financial management as satisfactory, and reports that the
counterpart funds were allocated to the project in a timely manner. JPMO submitted interim financial reports in
accordance with the legal covenants. Project financial audit reports for 2009–2013 were issued without qualifications
and were submitted to the World Bank in a timely manner, and were acceptable to the Bank (ICR, p.7).


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  A number of lessons are selected from a longer list identified by the ICR, with some adaptation of the language,
as follows:

    In inland waterway transport development , ship lock development can be combined with hydropower station .
     The revenue from power generation can provide financial support for the operations and maintenance of a ship
     lock. Free use of the ship lock in the project province in China was expected to attract more low value
     commodities to IWT from other transport modes.

    Need for design flexibility to address unanticipated land acquisition and resettlement issues . Preparation of a
     RAP acceptable to the Bank is an important, but not sufficient condition for successful project implementation.
     Project design should be flexible to allow for unanticipated land acquisition and resettlement issues, as was the
     case with the difficulties in land acquisition for the Donggang diversion canal under this project.

    The inter-related development initiatives that could have an impact on the project 's outcome should be
     carefully assessed at design . Under this project, the impact of the construction of the Xiajiang complex
     located 90km downstream from the project area affected the end-of-project achievements.


14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise (only 16 pages) and clear. It is outcome-oriented, and the lessons are evidence- based. The ICR
would have benefitted from more detail in covering the land acquisition for the Donggang diversion canal.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
