                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank



                                                      Report No: ICR00003119



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (IDA-49100 IDA-49110 TF-11049)



                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 79.5 MILLION
                        (US$125 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                        ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                        FOR A

                FLOOD EMERGENCY CASH TRANSFER PROJECT



                                   October 17, 2014




Social Protection and Labor Global Practice
South Asia Region




                                              i
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective 00000000)

                           Currency Unit = PKR
                            PKR 1.00 = US$0.01
                           US$1.00 = PKR 59.90

                               FISCAL YEAR
                               July 1 – June 30


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CDCP     Citizen’s Damage Compensation program
CPS      Country Program Strategy
DCO      District Coordination Officer
DFID     Department for International Development
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
NADRA    National Database and Registration Authority
PDMO     Provincial Disaster Management Offices
PDO      Project Development Objective
RDMO     Regional Disaster Management Offices
USAID    United States Agency for International Development

        Vice President:        Philippe H. Le Houerou
        Country Director:      Rachid Benmessaoud
        Sector Manager:        Pablo Gottret
        Project Team Leader:   Kelly Johnson
        ICR Team Leader:       Kelly Johnson




                                      ii
                                                      COUNTRY
                                              Islamic Republic of Pakistan



                                                              CONTENTS


DATA SHEET ..................................................................................................................................
    A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iv
    B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iv
    C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... iv
    D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v
    E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... v
    F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... vi
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................. viii
    H. Restructuring (if any) .............................................................................................. viii
    I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. ix

MAIN TEXT
    1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
    2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
    3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
    4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
    5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
    6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16
    7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17

ANNEXES
    Annex 1. Project Cost and Financing………………………………………………….18
    Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
    Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 21
    Annex 4. The main elements of the Memorandum of Understanding on changes to the
             CDCP process, agreed between the Government and the Bank ................... 23
    Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24
    Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 26
    Annex 7. Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................................ 29
    Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 37
    Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 39
    Annex 10. MAP ………………………………………………………………………40




                                                                     iii
DATA SHEET
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Pakistan Flood
Country:                Pakistan                 Project Name:             Emergency Cash
                                                                           Transfer Project
                                                                           IDA-49100,IDA-
Project ID:             P125105                  L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                           49110,TF-11049
ICR Date:               10/17/2014               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     ERL                      Borrower:
                                                                           OF PAKISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 79.50M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 79.50M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 79.50M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA)
 Cabinet Division
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Department for International Development (DFID)
 USAID
 Government of the Italian Republic

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process               Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/27/2011     Effectiveness:                                06/28/2011
                                                                                   01/09/2013
Appraisal:            02/14/2011     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                   04/30/2013
Approval:             03/29/2011     Mid-term Review:            05/16/2012        05/18/2012
                                     Closing:                    06/30/2013        03/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory




                                                iv
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory        Government:        Moderately Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                                  92                   92
Public administration- Other social services                            8                    8


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                            100              100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:          Rachid Benmessaoud                    Rachid Benmessaoud
Practice
                           Pablo Gottret                         Mansoora Rashid
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Kelly Johnson                         Andrea Vermehren
ICR Team Leader:           Kelly Johnson
ICR Primary Author:        Hjalte S. A. Sederlof




                                                   v
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective was to support the recovery of flood affected
households by assisting the Government of Pakistan in strengthening the implementation
of its Citizen's Damage Compensation Program

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised during implementation

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
                At least one million flood affected eligible households as per the re-targeting
Indicator 1 :
                criteria benefit from cash grants
Value
quantitative or 0.00                       at least 1 million                1,204,624
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/16/2011                   03/31/2014                        08/09/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Targeting efficiency: average baseline poverty score of CDCP II households will
Indicator 2 : be lower than average baseline poverty scores of non-CDCP families in each
                province
Value
quantitative or 0.00                       10 percent                        25.3 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/16/2011                   03/31/2014                        08/09/2013
Comments        Targeting efficiency was calculated using the poverty scorecard database. The
(incl. %        average PSC for a CDCP II beneficiary was 19.27 while the average score for a
achievement) non-beneficiary was 24.14 a 25.3% difference.
Indicator 3 : At least 70% of beneficiaries express satisfaction with the program delivery.
Value
quantitative or 0.00                       70.00                             77.50
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/16/2011                   03/31/2014                        05/29/2014
Comments        There is no one question on overall satisfaction. However, the follow-up survey
(incl. %        asks beneficiaries: Would you say your overall experience with the payment
achievement) process was? 77.5% of beneficiaries stated good or very good.




                                               vi
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 : program evaluated, and results reported
Value           partial: a rapid evaluation
                                            Full program                      Full program
(quantitative   of CDCP I was
                                            evaluation                        evaluation
or Qualitative) undertaken
Date achieved 06/30/2011                    03/31/2014                        03/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Public Information Campaign carried out as per the agreed communication
Indicator 2 :
                strategy
Value
(quantitative   No                          Yes                               Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2011                    03/31/2014                        06/09/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Management Information System strengthened, as measured by MIS modules for
Indicator 3 : targeting, enrollment, etc. developed, MIS training provided, computer systems
                in place, etc., according to project activity
Value
                                            MIS Fully                         MIS Fully
(quantitative   Partial
                                            Operational                       Operational
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2011                    03/31/2014                        03/06/2014
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Functioning Grievance mechanism for retargeting and payments established and
Indicator 4 :
                accessible
Value
(quantitative   Partial                     Full                              Full
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2011                    03/31/2014                        03/31/2014
                All card centers had a grievance desk and trained staff. Support from IOM to the
Comments
                district coordinators resulted in improved operations and better record keeping.
(incl. %
                1,179,956 appeals were received, reviewed, and resolved. 29 percent were
achievement)
                included.
Indicator 5 : At least 85 percent of families pick up cash grants within stipulated timelines
Value
(quantitative   0 percent                   85 percent                        99.3 percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/16/2011                    03/31/2014                        03/31/2014


                                              vii
Comments
                  The target was exceeded by 17 percent, as 99.3 percent of participants withdrew
(incl. %
                  their complete payments within 72 hours of disbursement of their payments
achievement)
                  Mechanism agreed and established to enable GOP to effectively respond to
Indicator 6 :
                  potential future disaster recovery
Value
(quantitative     Partial                   Full                                Full
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/13/2011                 03/31/2014                        03/06/2014
Comments          An action plan was approved by the Prime Minister. Several provinical
(incl. %          workshops for dissemination were held to raise awareness. the CDCP II model
achievement)      was used as a blueprint for 2011 and 2012 flood responses at the provincial level
                  Operational Audit regularly carried out, and recommendations incorporated into
Indicator 7 :
                  program implementation
Value
(quantitative   No Audi                    Yes                                Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/13/2011                   03/21/2014                         03/16/2014
                The operational audits were applied during the entire time there were field
Comments
                activities and grievances were being reviewed. The consultant presented a final
(incl. %
                analysis and recommendations that will be incorporated into the disaster recovery
achievement)
                action plan

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                           IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     09/21/2011             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    40.00
  2     02/05/2012             Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory             45.67
  3     07/07/2012             Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   122.68
  4     04/04/2013             Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory            122.43
  5     10/19/2013          Highly Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            122.78
  6     04/05/2014          Highly Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            122.78


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Re-allocation of funds from
                                                     Component 1 to Component 2
 01/09/2013               S       S         122.07
                                                     to cover additional TA costs.
                                                     Potential need for this outlined


                                                   viii
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     in minutes of negotiations.
                                                     Extension of closing date to
 04/30/2013               S     MS          122.43
                                                     03/30/2014




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1. The project was introduced as an emergency response to massive flooding in the
   north and north-western regions of Pakistan and in the province of Sindh in the
   southeast when, over the course of the monsoon season in July and August 2010, the
   country experienced the worst floods in its history. The floods covered some 100,000
   square kilometers over 78 districts, and affected some 20 million people, or nearly 10
   percent of the population. Approximately 1.6 million homes were destroyed, and
   livelihoods were severely affected: 60 percent of households described themselves as
   being without a main means of earning a living, and 53 percent of households
   reported a 76 to 100 percent decline in household income.                 The floods
   disproportionately affected the poorer districts of the country, worsening a poverty
   situation that had been steadily improving.
2. Relief operations were launched immediately by the Government, assisted by various
   UN agencies. They focused on immediate relief: keeping people alive and safe, and
   ensuring that their basic needs were met. However, Pakistan did not have the
   mechanisms, notably the safety nets, to stabilize basic consumption and recapitalize
   assets, and begin to restore livelihoods. Social protection had only just arisen as an
   important agenda item, a national protection strategy had been put in place, and work
   had started on developing a national cash-based safety net program, with assistance
   from the Bank (the Benazir Income Support Program, BISP). But that program was
   not meant to address emergencies directly, although its poverty database is certainly a
   valuable tool for that purpose as well. Instead, the Government initiated a special
   cash grant program for flood-affected families, The Citizens’ Damage Compensation
   Program (CDCP) Phase I, using existing federal and regional-level institutions for the
   design, financing and implementation of the program. Applying mainly geographic
   targeting, the program transferred some US$400 million to some 1.8 million
   beneficiary households (US$200per beneficiary household). The program was
   coordinated by the Cabinet Division of the Prime Minister’s office in partnership with
   the provincial governments through their respective Provincial/Regional Disaster
   Management Offices (PDMOs, RDMOs). The National Database and Registration
   Authority (NADRA) that maintains the database of Pakistani citizens and issues them
   computerized national identity cards, led systems’ development and operations.
3. The CDCP covered immediate needs of flood-affected households, as cash benefits
   were used for basic consumption. Less was spent on recapitalizing assets, recovering
   livelihoods or repairing housing. To that intent, the Government sought to launch a
   second phase of the program, CDCP Phase II, with additional payments targeting
   some 1.1 million households, and it was seeking donor assistance. The Bank was
   well-placed to support Pakistan in extending and strengthening the CDCP. It had
   already been assisting the Government in its flood response through a post-disaster
   needs assessment and US$300 million in IDA resources for critical imports,
   introduced through additional financing under the Earthquake Emergency Recovery
   Credit Project (P099110). It had substantial regional experience in disaster recovery


                                            1
   and reconstruction through interventions in Sri Lanka and the Maldives following the
   2004 tsunami. The Bank also had considerable experience in crisis response in
   Pakistan from its involvement in the 2005 post-earthquake crisis to help finance the
   design and delivery of livelihood support cash grants to the poor. It had been
   supporting social protection sector reforms in Pakistan through a technical assistance
   project. And potential donors were looking to the Bank to take the lead in helping the
   Government provide further support to the CDCP.
4. Moreover, the project was consistent with the Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy
   (CPS) for FY 2010-2013. The CPS recognized the need to reduce vulnerability
   through effective safety nets as well as improved disaster risk management under
   Pillar 2 of the strategy, entitled Accelerating delivery of human development and
   social protection services.
5. Additional donor financing was necessary at the time. Pakistan faced significant fiscal
   constraints, and economic growth was at a modest 2.5 percent in 2010, in large part as
   a result of the flood. A coalition of development partners, led by the World Bank,
   was established, initially with participation by the Government, USAID and IDA.
   Later DFID, through a Bank-administered trust fund, and the Italian Government
   (who parallel financed the program) also participated in financing the second phase of
   CDCP. The overall amount covered under the World Bank Project for CDCP II was
   roughly US$216.4 million (IDA: US$125 million, DFID: US$91.4 million).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
6. The project development objective (PDO) was to support the recovery of flood
   affected households by assisting the Government of Pakistan in strengthening the
   implementation of its Citizens Damage Compensation Program (CDCP).
7. The PDO was to be achieved through the provision of cash grants to targeted
   households, and through technical assistance to CDCP to strengthen its management,
   transparency and accountability. Key indicators were the following:
       1. Coverage: At least 1 million flood affected, eligible households benefit from
          cash grants;
       2. Targeting efficiency: Average baseline poverty score of CDCP II families will
          be lower than average baseline poverty scores of non CDCP families in each
          province;
       3. Efficient delivery: At least 70 percent of beneficiaries express satisfaction
          with the program’s delivery system
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
8. Neither the PDO nor the key indicators were revised during implementation.




                                            2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
9. The project was designed to provide cash payments to an estimated 1 million poor
   households with housing damages caused by the 2010 flood. The beneficiaries could
   use the cash as they wished, but an underlying assumption was that cash transfers to
   households affected by housing damage would be taken as an opportunity for asset
   building and livelihood restoration, as the initial cash payment under CDCP I had
   overwhelmingly gone to meet consumption needs. The implementing agencies – the
   Cabinet Division and NADRA, as well as the Provincial Disaster Management
   Agencies (PDMAs) and the District Disaster Management Agencies (DDMAs) -
   benefited from technical assistance that strengthened their abilities to fulfill their roles
   in program implementation, albeit temporarily, since the need for such knowledge
   dispersed with the end of the project, reflecting its emergency nature. Permanent
   fallout from the project would prove to be a strengthened civil registry process in
   NADRA, as the CDCP, including the Bank-supported project, provided an
   opportunity to update and expand coverage of the national database and indicated
   means to strengthen national registry maintenance. As one feature of eligibility was
   to be in the database, this served to underscore to the population the importance of
   being on the national registry.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
10. Component 1: Effective delivery of cash grants to flood affected families (total
    estimated cost – US$115 million). The component provided cash grants to eligible
    households in two installments through the commercial banking system. Provision of
    grants included the processes for identifying beneficiaries, delivering benefits and
    addressing complaints. Facilitation centers were established to support households
    through the processes.
11. The processes were as follows:
•   Coverage and Targeting. The program was to provide payments to at least 1 million
    households in the flood-affected areas, identified through provincial housing damage
    data, and verified by NADRA through triangulation with the beneficiary database
    from the first phase of the program, as well as by independent spot checks.
•   Payments. All eligible beneficiaries were to receive a total of PKR 40,000,
    irrespective of the degree of damage to their houses, as long as damage could be
    determined. Payments were to be made in two installments of PKR 20,000 each. A
    10 percent contingency was included to address grievances of eligible beneficiaries.
    Payments could be drawn through ATM machines at regular bank branches using
    ATM debit cards, or through use of debit cards at point-of-sale facilities provided by
    participating banks at temporary payment centers, and based on beneficiary lists
    provided by NADRA. Information campaigns were carried out and help lines set up.
•   Grievance Redressal System: Depending on the grievance, different stakeholders
    were to respond:
    o Grievances related to personal identity cards. NADRA was responsible for
      ensuring that personal identity cards (necessary for getting ATM debit cards)


                                              3
       contained the correct information about the beneficiary; and NADRA was to
       regularly update the beneficiary database, as updated lists were received from the
       Provincial authorities (the Provincial Disaster Management Authorities, PDMAs).
       NADRA also operated help lines for beneficiaries to address grievances related to
       identity card details.
    o Grievances related to eligibility/targeting. District Review Committees (DRC),
      including representatives of civil society and the district administration, initially
      reviewed eligibility-related grievances, forwarded their recommendations to
      provincial appeals secretariats at the PDMA/RDMA level who in turn provided
      their final recommendations to NADRA for verification, amendment of eligibility
      rosters, establishment of payment lists and issuance of payment cards. Where
      District administrations were unable to effectively manage grievances, the
      PDMA/RDMA provided necessary support.
    o Grievances related to payments. The partnering commercial banks also
      instituted grievance offices and dedicated hot lines to respond to complaints
      related to payments.
    o The ombudsman process. As a last resort for grievances, federal and provincial
      ombudsmen would be available to the public to settle disputes.
12. The component included a social accountability and transparency element, focusing
    on spreading information about the program as broadly as possible. Eligibility
    criteria and beneficiary lists were published on the NADRA website and in notices
    placed in union councils (at the village and sub-village level). NGOs with presence
    in the flood-affected areas were enrolled to help inform about the program. A
    mobile-based text messaging system was set up by NADRA. Web-based updates on
    program progress were provided by NADRA on a dedicated website. A call center
    was also provided by NADRA for lodging complaints relating to service delivery
    issues, as well as for providing information to beneficiaries on the status of their
    grievances.
13. Component 2: Strengthen program management, monitoring and evaluation
    (total estimated cost US$10 million). This component was to provide technical
    assistance to strengthen program management, transparency and accountability at the
    federal, provincial and local levels through capacity building, communication and
    public information, monitoring and evaluation, as well as coordinating of advisory
    services for beneficiaries. The main areas of technical assistance included:
•   Operational Audits to review beneficiary targeting, payments, grievance redressal,
    public information, and program management and oversight.
•   Communications and Public Information where, to inform beneficiaries and
    minimize public grievances, support was provided to NADRA to develop an effective
    training and communication strategy.
•   IT software development and hardware provision was provided to complement the
    existing management information system (MIS) in NADRA, develop additional
    modules (e.g. for grievance redressal), and decentralize use of the MIS.



                                            4
•   Strengthening of the Cabinet Division through short and long-term consultancies to
    support it in its coordination and policy preparation functions, as well as in strategic
    questions on future disaster management with regard to cash transfers. Assistance
    was also provided to strengthen the financial management capacity of the Cabinet
    Division.
•   Strengthening of PDMAs/DCOs through technical assistance, training and hard and
    software acquisitions to support their playing an active role in this and future
    emergency programs, in particular in operations, outreach, communication and
    monitoring of the program.
•   Impact Evaluation. Using appropriate ex-post impact evaluation techniques to
    provide information on the short to medium term effects of Phase I and Phase II cash
    transfers on beneficiary households’ consumption, labor and investment outcomes
    and coping strategies. Negative or positive spillover effects on the local economy and
    community were assessed, Exclusion errors were assessed
•   Fiduciary and program management. Individual consultants including international
    and national technical experts and fiduciary consultants were to be contracted as
    needed.
•   Incremental operating costs to cover expenditures for the management and
    coordination of project activities which would not have been incurred in the absence
    of the project, excluding the salaries of the recipient’s civil servants.

Financing.
14. Against the estimated US$580 million equivalent needed to meet the Government’s
    target of covering at least 1 million beneficiary households, a Memorandum of
    Understanding was signed on July 9, 2011 between the Government, USAID, and
    IDA, confirming IDA financing of US$125 million, USAID financing of US$190
    million, and a Government contribution of US$100 million. Subsequently, DFID
    would participate with US$91.35 million equivalent and Italy with US$74 million
    equivalent.

1.6 Revised Components
15. Components were not revised during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes
16. There were two level-2 restructurings of the project during implementation. The first,
    approved on January 9, 2011 was to reallocate US$5 million from component 1 of the
    project to component 2 to cover additional technical assistance costs. During
    appraisal the estimated cost of component 2 was US$15 million but during
    negotiations the amount was reduced and the minutes documented that if additional
    technical assistance costs would be required they could be reallocated at that time.
    The second restructuring occurred April 30, 2013 and extended the closing date of the
    project from June 30, 2013 to March 30, 2014. The additional months were required


                                             5
    to oversee final payments to beneficiaries. Other than these minor changes there were
    no significant changes to the project during implementation, but some elements
    supporting implementation were reinforced. They are indicated in the section on
    “Implementation”.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
17. Project preparation. As noted above, the Bank had considerable prior experience of
    crisis interventions in the region as well as in Pakistan. In supporting a second phase
    of the CDCP, the Bank was able to bring to bear this experience, as well as
    considerable international experience in designing cash transfer schemes, and this
    allowed improvements in program design and implementation that were likely to lead
    to better outcomes when focusing on recovery rather than immediate relief. 1 A
    technical assessment of the first phase of the CDCP, including a third party evaluation
    of it, was undertaken, and consultations were held with relevant stakeholders at the
    federal and provincial levels to provide a design for the program that was likely to be
    both relevant and implementable, taking into account circumstances on the ground.
18. As a result, the emphasis of the project was placed on recovery; and a number of
    changes were introduced in the design of the initial CDCP, which were spelled out in
    a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Government and the Bank.
    Agreement on the MoU would trigger Bank involvement in the second phase of the
    program. The measures are detailed in the PAD (page 11) and Annex 4 of the ICR,
    and summarized in the discussion on design below. To guide implementation, an
    Operating Manual (OM) was developed, setting out the roles and responsibilities of
    program stakeholders, as well as policies, processes and procedures for program
    administration and results monitoring. In order to help increase implementation
    capacity, the Bank team developed a risk assessment framework in collaboration with
    the counterparts; and it carried out a Risk and Opportunities Workshop before project
    start-up. The main risks defined during the workshop included: (i) uneven capacity at
    the provincial level and potential conflicts with the Federal government; (ii) potential
    difficulties in improved targeting when distribution was universal in flood affected
    areas under the first CDCP; and (iii) fraud and corruption, as well as
    inclusion/exclusion errors in identifying beneficiaries.
19. Processes were adjusted to respond to identified risks. Interested development
    partners were consulted on project design from an early stage, and this would
    subsequently help firm up their engagement in the program. The project was
    prepared in three months, but it would take an additional five months until initial
    disbursements were made, as implementation capacity at provincial and district levels


1
  Post-disaster response distinguishes between immediate relief and recovery. Immediate relief focuses on keeping
people alive and safe and ensuring that their basic needs are met; while recovery emphasizes restoring livelihoods and
rebuilding assets.




                                                           6
   had to be built up, and cumbersome government procedures slowed down
   disbursements.
20. Design. In developing the project, the Bank chose to engage in an ongoing program,
    reflecting the emergency nature of the intervention, as well as the absence of suitable
    alternative means to intervene in the crisis. At the same time, the nature of the
    emergency was changing - it was passing from early relief to recovery. Early relief
    had been addressed in the immediate aftermath of the disaster and in the first phase of
    the CDCP; and the second phase (the project) was expected to increasingly emphasize
    recovery. Government and donors, including the Bank, recognized this, and the MoU
    brought in recovery aspects into the design. They also recognized that recovery still
    would have to include relief; and .unconditional cash transfers were maintained for
    the second phase to provide recipients with the opportunity to themselves determine
    their specific relief or recovery needs
21. With the shift in emphasis towards recovery, the targeting method was changed.
    Under the first phase, mainly geographic targeting had been used; under the second
    phase, more rigorous targeting was applied, based on housing damage as the main
    determinant of need, and consequently eligibility. Beneficiaries were then identified
    through provincial housing damage data verified by NADRA through triangulation
    with the beneficiary database from Phase 1 of the program, as well as through
    independent spot checks; female-headed households and households headed by
    disabled persons were automatically included. The targeting mechanism was backed
    up by a grievance redressal mechanism to capture errors. It was further underpinned
    by requiring household members to be present at assessment. While this may have
    made the process more cumbersome, it did help ensure the legitimacy of the
    assessment.
22. The financial and technical assistance that was introduced under the project aimed at
    directly supporting a more effective implementation of the CDCP. The MoU
    between the Government and the Bank was introduced as a condition of effectiveness.
    It served to introduce a number of changes to the design of the CDCP, involving in
    particular targeting and a robust grievance redressal mechanism; clarification of
    institutional roles; improved public communications and increased transparency in
    implementing the CDCP; third party program monitoring and evaluation; formal
    contracting of participating commercial banks; and the elaboration of an Action Plan
    for the development of a more effective future disaster recovery response through
    cash transfers that would include appropriate mechanisms for asset recovery. The
    elements of the MoU are summarized in Annex 4 of the ICR. Each one of the
    changes introduced through the MoU would bring more rigor into the program; it was
    also recognized that they would challenge implementation capacity. Consequently
    the design included an important management, monitoring and evaluation component
    (component 2) that incorporated capacity building in the main implementing agencies,
    communications campaigns to support coherent messaging and information
    dissemination at province levels, and a rigorous grievance process to correct errors,
    and contain fraud and corruption.
23. Especially challenging elements of project design were, first of all, the new processes
    that were put in place – targeting, beneficiary selection, payment systems, grievance


                                            7
   mechanisms, that all were largely new activities that were unfamiliar to all the
   involved stakeholders, with the possible exception of NADRA, which at least had the
   experience of maintaining a database of citizens and issuing them identity cards as its
   main function. Other stakeholders, the Cabinet Division, the Provincial Disaster
   Management Authorities, and the District administrations had no experience of the
   kind; nor did the eventual beneficiaries. Realizing this, the Bank team assessed the
   overall risks as “high”, and introduced mitigating measures into project design:
   capacity building in the main implementing agencies, communications campaigns to
   support coherent messaging and information at province levels, and a rigorous
   grievance process to correct errors, and contain fraud and corruption.
24. Also realizing that the project involved multiple stakeholders, a number of
    coordinating bodies were set up. A high-level Strategic Review Committee would
    provide overall leadership and coordination; and operational issues would be
    addressed in an Operational Steering Committee. In addition, the three main entities,
    the Cabinet Division, NADRA and the participating provinces signed a tripartite
    agreement on implementing the project.

2.2 Implementation
25. The efforts that were made during project preparation to strengthen beneficiary
    selection and payment processes and address potential risks would pay off during
    implementation and allow the project to reach all its key objectives, and even exceed
    the target of one million beneficiary households.
26. Implementation challenges would mainly relate to targeting, and payment delays due
    to cumbersome government procedures. The grievance appeals system was seen as a
    key element of successful project execution and would prove particularly important in
    beneficiary selection. Housing damage as a determinant of eligibility, including the
    presence of a household member at the site, would initially prove awkward and result
    in a significant number of eligible households initially being excluded. Results were
    affected by the following elements: (i) the housing damage survey was conducted
    almost a year after the initial floods; (ii) in some cases, flood victims had been
    displaced, or they had already repaired damages to their houses; (iii) initially,
    communications to flood-affected households were weak, and many were unaware of
    the assessment; this was aggravated by the requirement that a household member had
    to be present at the assessment of damages to a house. All three elements initially led
    to significant errors of exclusion, but these were subsequently addressed through the
    grievance mechanism. The new targeting mechanism was cumbersome for good
    reason – with fairly large transfers, the focus had to be on reducing errors of inclusion,
    and then addressing the exclusion challenge through a rigorously applied grievance
    appeals system that came to play a critical role in determining legitimate beneficiaries
    and drawing up beneficiary lists. The communications program was subsequently
    strengthened with donor support.
27. Grievance appeals are standard features in safety net systems, and can be particularly
    important in emergency-type interventions, where often simple and straightforward
    selection procedures are applied within relatively short periods of time, as the case


                                              8
   was in CDCP II. Anticipating grievances, NADRA undertook a capacity assessment
   to define needs at the province and district levels to handle grievances; and
   subsequently provided training, and logistical and operational support to district
   registration centers. Other measures were also taken: where capacity gaps were
   obvious, the International Office for Migration (IOM) was contracted to help staff
   registration centers; and grievance redressal coordinators were stationed in every
   PDMA. The Cabinet Division developed filters for managing the caseload.
   Systematic information and communications campaigns, aimed at encouraging
   beneficiaries to file appeals or withdraw their funds, guided potential beneficiaries
   through the system.
28. As these measures were applied, they made for substantially improved targeting.
    Whereas initial beneficiary identification (the baseline) had resulted in the estimated
    exclusion of 61 percent of potentially eligible flood-affected households, with
    modified processes, and especially a fully operational grievance redressal system,
    errors of exclusion were reduced to 32 percent. Where exclusion did occur, it was
    driven by difficulties in capturing people without identity cards (who would be
    automatically excluded), those without permanent address, very isolated households
    and those living in insecure areas. Enrollment difficulties were encountered in
    particular in Balochistan and Gilgit-Balistan, where low administrative capacity in
    both areas, and stone-built, less flood-sensitive houses in the latter, resulted in few
    households being verified. Still, improved processes would reduce exclusion errors
    in Balochistan to a low 30 percent, compared to a baseline of 73 percent.
29. Risk management was taken very seriously during implementation: As acknowledged
    in the DFID assessment of the program (see Annex 9), whereas many of the risks
    considered high initially did not materialize (e.g. corruption, fraud), implementing
    agencies and provincial governments reported that they valued the additional rigor
    brought by World Bank fiduciary controls. The central risk management forum was
    the Operational Steering Committee (OSC) which partners felt was an effective
    forum for discussing and acting on emerging risks.
30. The establishment of targeting and payment systems that would, and did, minimize
    implementation risks, notably with regard to exclusion, fraud and corruption, did not
    immediately allow for a smooth roll-out. As noted above, the first disbursements
    under the CDCP II started in December, 2011, and some 37 percent of beneficiaries
    had not yet received their full allotment of two benefits by the time of the impact
    evaluation surveys in mid-2013. This reflects both the slow roll-out as systems were
    put in place and adjusted during implementation; awkward budget transfer processes
    at the central government level; and delays in releasing some donor funds (see p. 5,
    paragraph on Financing). All donor funds have now been released, and remaining
    payments are being made beyond project closing.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
31. Design. Monitoring arrangements built on the management information system
    (MIS) that had been put into place for the first phase of the CDCP. Project
    monitoring reports, administrative data on processes generated by NADRA, and a


                                            9
   program impact evaluation towards the end of the project were to allow project
   management and donors to monitor progress towards PDO targets. NADRA was to
   draw on its database of individual identity numbers to track individual beneficiary
   status and benefit receipt. Monitoring reports and administrative data from the field
   were to provide information on the implementation of key processes. These were to
   be underpinned by third party verification (spot checks) of the quality of damage
   assessments; and third party operational audits to assess how implementing agencies,
   notably provincial PDMAs and DRCs, were applying the processes outlined in the
   OM. The impact evaluation was to draw lessons about the CDCP program, its
   approach and impact on those affected by the flood.
32. Implementation. The M&E design was successfully implemented. Supported by
    field visits by Cabinet Division and NADRA staff, it was able to monitor the key
    processes (targeting, enrollment, benefit payment, grievance redressal) and signal
    problems as they arose. The supporting spot checks and operational audits were
    carried out as intended. The impact evaluation was implemented drawing on follow-
    up surveys to assess the effects of the cash benefit on beneficiary households.
33. Utilization. The information coming from the M&E system was used to inform
    decision makers on progress and to take action where issues arose. As a result,
    damage assessment methods were adjusted, communications’ channels and messages
    refined, targeted technical assistance, training and incentives introduced to counteract
    weaknesses at the provincial and district administration levels. Lessons learned
    through the process, and the findings of the operational audits, were actively applied
    to adjust the program while it was being implemented; the longer term impact of the
    lessons may be felt to the extent that they are incorporated into disaster management,
    for instance the disaster response action plan that was being developed under the
    project. Useful lessons were learned in implementing an emergency operation, but
    ultimately, the CDCP was a temporary expedient put in place to deal with a particular
    issue. It was not intended to become a permanent tool for tackling emergencies.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
34. There were no deviations or waivers from the Bank safeguards and fiduciary policies
    and procedures during the implementation of the project. No safeguard policies were
    triggered by the project.
35. Financial management. Cabinet Division was in charge of the financial flows
    relating to the cash transfers; NADRA was in charge of managing the technical
    assistance. Both had adequate internal controls in place for processing payments and
    accounting purposes. While Cabinet Division initially faced a problem of staff
    turnover, no substantive financial management issues arose in either Cabinet Division
    or NADRA during project implementation. An overall satisfactory financial
    performance was moderated by delays in the disbursement of funds by the
    Government.
36. For the external audit, Cabinet Division’s financial statements were audited on an
    annual basis by the Auditor General of Pakistan, and NADRA’s by an independent



                                            10
   external auditor. Audit reports reported no material weaknesses, but pointed to
   control weaknesses in accounting in both agencies.
37. Procurement. No procurement issues arose during implementation. Contract award
    was completed in record time, and contract management was handled without
    problems.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
38. The CDCP, on which the project built, was conceived as an emergency operation,
    designed to provide a temporary safety net in an environment where there were no
    adequate mechanisms. While the structure seems to be dismantling as the emergency
    is no longer there, it has underscored the need for one – in an environment susceptible
    to environmental shocks, ad hoc arrangements may not be the most cost-effective
    approach. In the meantime, the Benazir Income Support Program (BISP), a targeted,
    unconditional cash benefit, has become fully operational. The systems and poverty
    score card underpinning the program could now be used for emergencies. This is in
    keeping with the future disaster response action plan that was designed under the
    project drawing on the experience of CDCP.
39. The current CPS (for the period of 2015-2019) contains provisions to build flexibility
    for the possible reallocation of resources within the country’s IDA portfolio to enable
    a rapid response in crisis and emergency situations, if needed. The foundation for
    building a suitable institutional environment including a future disaster relief
    instrument was laid through the institutional support provided under the CDCP II, and
    was codified in the future disaster respond action plan, which was approved by the
    Prime Minister. As such it could be re-mobilized by drawing together existing
    disaster relief agencies, and the experience gathered under CDCP, and BISP.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
40. The project was designed to address a particular event – the 2010 floods – and the
    PDO was relevant to dealing with that event. It was intended to be a disaster
    recovery effort, albeit one that could offer relief, or support for basic consumption, as
    well as help restore assets and livelihoods. Actual spending would, of course, reflect
    households’ actual needs and preferences. Project implementation was relevant to the
    recovery effort. Risk of further crises remains, and preparedness and shared
    approaches for managing disaster risk remains an explicit element in the most recent
    Bank’s CPS (2015-2019).

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
41. The project was to support recovery of flood affected households, that is, protect
    basic consumption, recapitalize assets and restore livelihoods. Mostly, it was
    expected that a majority of recipients would use their benefit to restore assets. Here,
    the impact evaluation provides a more nuanced picture of what the project achieved.


                                             11
      It appears that most beneficiaries used their benefit for house repairs, and on food and
      debt repayment, suggesting that people were still to some extent in a relief mode, and
      still needed to meet basic requirements. The program’s most significant effect seems
      to have been that it lowered the likelihood of reduced food consumption in the
      household. When spending on recovery type activities, on building productive assets,
      the focus was not unexpectedly on agriculture and on livestock management.
      Altogether, asset restoration (house repairs, household assets and livestock) totaled 35
      percent of spending. (Please see more detailed discussion of use and impact of cash
      transfers in Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis, and in Annex 6: Beneficiary
      Survey Results).
42. All three PDO indicator targets were met, and in fact exceeded. (i) The project was to
    provide cash benefits to at least 1 million flood-affected, eligible households. This
    was done: it provided full cash benefits of US$400 to close to 1.2 million households,
    and partial payments to another 0.6 million.2 The majority was in Punjab, Sindh and
    Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, although there also are significant numbers of beneficiary
    households (about 10 percent of the total) in Balochistan, despite the relatively high
    errors of exclusion. (ii) The targeting efficiency objective (poverty targeting) was
    achieved: the average baseline poverty score of CDCP recipients was some 25
    percent lower than the average baseline poverty scores of non-CDCP recipients in
    each of the participating provinces. (iii) The project quality indicator was exceeded:
    some 78 percent of beneficiaries expressed satisfaction with the program, compared
    to a target of 70 percent.
43. In summary, the project supported the effective distribution of cash benefits to almost
    all poor households in the flood area. It helped maintain the relief effort, and it
    promoted the beginnings of recovery through asset building. While it was focused on
    ensuring that the immediate emergency was addressed, it also launched a longer tem
    institution by helping formulate a national disaster response action plan.
    Consequently, the outcome is rated satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency
44. The ICR assesses efficiency against project design and implementation, and costs
    involved in achieving the project.
45. The following features of design and implementation influenced project efficiency.
    International experience, including in South Asia, and the trend in current best
    practice, suggest that post-disaster income support is best provided in the form of
    cash. This allows recipients to prioritize their spending, and the experience is that
    they do so sensibly. A number of criteria introduced through the MOU (Section 2.1.
    on Design) contributed to increasing efficiency: while stronger governance and


2
    The exact number is 1,208,302 households. With an average household size of 6.5, a total of 7,853,963 people
benefited from the program. This number includes households that had not yet received their full allotment at project
closing. As noted in Section 2.2, some 37 percent of approved households had not yet received their full allotment
(two payments) at the time of the impact assessment. Payments were continuing beyond project closing.




                                                          12
   institutional streamlining, and more rigorous assessment and grievance redressal
   processes increased the efficiency of the beneficiary identification, selection and
   payment processes and, ultimately, allowed wider coverage of needy households than
   had been the case in the initial phase of the CDCP. Efficiency was somewhat reduced
   by a slow startup of the project (Triggering the need for an extension of the closing
   date by nine months), and there is some evidence that the provision of the benefit in
   separate tranches rather than all at once may have reduced the impact on livelihood
   recovery (see also Annex 3).
46. Administrative costs were low, estimated at between 7 and 10 percent, compared with
    8-9 percent for other well executed cash and near-cash programs. This was largely a
    consequence of the relatively small number of large transfers involved, and the use of
    already existing supporting mechanisms for the project.
47. The ICR did not undertake quantitative analysis (cost effectiveness, benefit-cost
    analysis) of the program, noting its mainly short-term consumption effects on
    beneficiary households. Fiscal sustainability of the program is not an issue, as it
    supported short-term recovery of flood-affected households rather than the provision
    of a permanent safety net.
48. Overall, efficiency is rated substantial.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
49. The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory. The project objective – to
    help in the recovery of flood-affected households - was relevant, and in practice the
    project would come to support both relief and recovery: a significant number of
    households still felt a need to apply the funds to consumption-related expenditures
    three years after the flood. Project design was relevant in strengthening key elements
    of CDCP procedures, which was to bring more rigor into the program cycle, while at
    the same time maintaining low project costs.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
50. The targeting of female (and disabled) headed families that was introduced into the
    targeting process contributed directly to promoting economic empowerment of
    women, and inclusion of vulnerable groups. A key project outcome indicator
    addressed poverty targeting, measuring the average baseline poverty score of CDCP
    II households compared to non-CDCP II households, drawing on BISP’s poverty
    scorecard database. The average score for CDCP II households was 19.27, while the
    average score for non-CDCP II households was 24.14.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
51. The project had institutional implications: (i) it underlined the importance of getting a
    national safety net mechanism, and may have underlined the importance of the
    Benazir Income Support Program as a national safety net with the flexibility to scale


                                                13
    up its operations when necessary; and (ii) it signaled the need for a strong, coherent
    disaster relief system, and the importance of proceeding with disaster relief action
    plan.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
52. Drawing on the Impact Assessment (Annex 6), unintended outcomes and impacts
    included the following:
•    The demand for labor in flood affected communities contracted over the period after
    the flood, and workers have been moving away from farm wage labor to work on own
    farm as the relative returns between each activity have changed.
•   The CDCP II transfer appears to have reduced the level of child labor, although child
    labor still remains an important livelihood strategy.
•   Migration is becoming an increasingly important livelihood strategy for flood
    affected households, with both the likelihood of a household having a member who
    has migrated and the total number of migrating members increasing over the period
    of the evaluation. The most common reason given for migrating is for employment
    with respondents citing, low wages and a lack of employment opportunities as
    important factors. This correlates with findings of a contraction in local labor
    markets.
•   The CDCP II transfer did not impact child nutrition, and child malnutrition was found
    to be at critical levels. Child nutrition is dependent on a number of factors other than
    economic access, which the CDCP II transfer did not address. These include the
    general levels of hygiene and sanitation in a community, education levels of parents,
    particularly the mother, and the morbidity of children.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
53. See Annex 6.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low
54. At the time of evaluation for the ICR, institutions specifically set up for the project,
    such as arrangements within the Cabinet Division and NADRA, or the district review
    committees, are being dismantled. This is not an unlikely outcome, given that the
    project served a specific purpose at a specific point in time. To that extent, the
    project risk is assessed as low.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory
55. The Bank fielded an experienced team that could draw on prior work on social
    protection reform and emergency in Pakistan. It also brought broader international
    experience to bear. The team was able to prepare the project over a short three-month


                                            14
   period, and it became effective three months after preparation had begun. The
   changes in design of the CDCP that it insisted on introducing improved the rigor of
   the system, but also slowed down implementation in the face of capacity constraints
   in implementing agencies, notably at province and district levels, that had to be
   addressed during implementation. The team introduced a monitoring and evaluation
   system that allowed bottlenecks in implementation to be tackled, and lessons to be
   learned at the end of the project. The thorough work the team undertook during
   preparation provided the necessary comfort for other donors to participate in a Bank-
   administered multi-donor trust fund. The introduction of the action plan for the
   development of a future disaster recovery mechanism provided a valuable addition to
   the project, opening up the possibility to draw lessons from an operation where
   lessons otherwise easily might have been lost. Choosing to support an unconditional
   cash transfer proved to be sensible in a situation where individual household needs
   showed significant variation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Highly satisfactory
56. Realizing that the CDCP for the second phase was different than the first one, the
    Bank team worked closely with the main implementing agencies (the Cabinet
    Division, NADRA) throughout the project. Attention was paid to the implementation
    issues that did arise, essentially process ones, and the team stood ready to advise and
    allocate resources, mainly technical assistance, to reduce their impact, or recommend
    other solutions. No safeguard policies were triggered, nor did any fiduciary issues
    arise. Generally, supervision was hands-on, and this was appreciated by the
    implementing agencies. The fact that the team was a mix of headquarters and country
    staff facilitated this. Performance reporting on project progress was thorough, and
    ratings fairly reflected the degree of seriousness of issues. Missions focused on
    advancing solutions to the main concerns of implementation – strengthening appeals
    and review processes at province and district levels (where the main capacity
    concerns lay, as already identified during preparation); streamlining the grievance
    process, and completing damage validation and eligibility for payment.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
57. The overall rating of Bank performance is satisfactory. It is based on the quality at
    entry and supervision ratings. A higher rating was preempted by insufficient
    consideration of sub-national capacity, which did affect the project throughout
    implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory
58. Throughout preparation and much of implementation, Government support for the
    project was strong. With a good track record from the first CDCP, it nevertheless
    agreed with the design changes for the second phase, including more rigorous


                                            15
    targeting to identify beneficiaries; this also gave the project a greater poverty focus.
    At the same time, delays in the release of Government funds were a persistent
    problem for the flow of funds in the project, having some adverse effect on
    implementation and are to some extent reflected in the lag in benefit payments.
    Decisions on implementing the future disaster action plan still remain to be taken.
    This was a moderate shortcoming, and government performance is rated moderately
    satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
59. The implementing agencies, the Cabinet Division and NADRA, performed well.
    Their concern about capacity at the province and district levels throughout the project
    gave it a top-heavy emphasis, but was well-placed. Both applied a rigorous and
    active approach to implementation, focused on making it a success. Fiduciary
    responsibilities were met without problems. Some weaknesses in implementation
    might have been avoided, notably overcrowding at grievance redressal, with better-
    formulated information and communications campaigns. That is, however,
    counterweighed by negotiating a successful payment system with selected
    commercial banks and a nuanced approach to the diversity inherent in dealing with
    many provinces and districts with different capacities. Implementing agency
    performance is rated satisfactory.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
60. Overall Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory. While there were
    delays in the release of counterpart funds by the government, the project did exceed
    its key outcome targets, reflecting an overall strong implementation effort.

6. Lessons Learned
61. Some lessons to be drawn are the following:
•   Targeting. In an emergency program, targeting methods should be as simple and
    well understood and based on disaster impact rather than wealth. This places heavier
    reliance on grievance redress mechanisms, which become an important feature; this is
    not necessarily so in a normal project where more time can be spent on design than is
    appropriate in an emergency operation. Moreover, when significant amounts are
    being transferred, the system still requires rigor, and the focus should be on reducing
    inclusion errors. This may initially also lead to significant exclusion, but this can
    subsequently be addressed through the grievance mechanism. Requiring household
    members to be present at damage assessment in some instances proved to be
    cumbersome, but may have added to the legitimacy of the assessment process.
•   Phasing the response. While a post-disaster cash transfer program needs to be
    prepared more quickly after a disaster, applying a two-phase response may be
    effective – a first phase that is purely disaster targeted and provides immediate relief,
    focusing on keeping people alive and safe, and ensuring that their immediate needs


                                             16
    are met; and a second phase focused on recovery, not only protecting basic
    consumption but also recapitalizing assets and restoring livelihoods.
•   Identification cards. If national identification cards are to be used as an element to
    verify beneficiaries, they need to have broad coverage and be up-to-date. In the
    project, this did pose a risk and may have led to some degree of exclusion. On the
    other hand, it did offer incentives for both NADRA and flood victims to seek
    registration. Ultimately, maintaining ID cards up-to-date on a continuous basis
    should be a routine concern of NADRA or any other similar agency, as well as the
    population. That does, of course, require continuous communication about the
    importance of registration, especially in environments where civil registry is not
    recognized as an obligation.
•   Public awareness and well-prepared communications are essential to ensure
    smooth processes. This was not the case under the project; this created confusion and
    contributed to pressures on the grievance process. It points to the importance of
    carefully developing public awareness campaigns that draw on traditional (mosques,
    teachers) as well as modern methods of communications.
•   Cash payments. Recipients valued cash above other post-crisis assistance. Their
    needs continued to be a combination of relief and recovery, and cash gave them the
    flexibility to apply spending sensibly.
•   Payment in tranches. In the project, payment was in two tranches. In relief, where
    daily needs are being addressed, payment in tranches may be preferable. If the
    emphasis is placed on recovery, where single spending may be in larger amounts, a
    single, larger amount may be preferable. The use of debit cards and ATM machines
    is likely to reduce the risk of storing large amounts at home.
•   Impact Evaluation. The impact evaluation was accurate in capturing the impact of
    the two transfers under CDCP II on beneficiary households. However it was unable to
    capture the extent to which those transfers mitigated against the impact of the floods
    due to the lack of a pre-flood baseline. Preparing a pre-emergency baseline would
    help better understand the adequacy of transfer amounts and program design elements
    in mitigating against the impact of a disaster.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
N.A.

(b) Cofinanciers
N.A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N.A.



                                           17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing 3

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                      Actual/Latest
                                          Appraisal Estimate                                     Percentage of
            Components                                                Estimate (USD
                                            (USD million)                                         Appraisal
                                                                         million)
1. Cash Grants                                      570.00                 514.22                     90.2%
2. Program management,
                                                      10.00                    15.00                  150.0%
monitoring and evaluation
            Total Baseline Cost                     580.00                    529.22                  91.2%
Physical Contingencies                                0.00                      0.00
Price Contingencies                                   0.00                      0.00
             Total Project Costs                    580.00                    529.22                  91.2%
Front-end fee PPF                                     0.00                      0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                    0.00                      0.00
      Total Financing Required                      580.00                    529.22                  91.2%


(b) Financing
                                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                Type of                                    Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                      Estimate      Estimate
                                              Cofinancing                                   Appraisal
                                                               (USD million) (USD million)
Government                                    Budget                  100.00         84.62    84.6%
 US: Agency for International
                                              Grant                      190.00             190.00        100%
Development (USAID)
 UK: British Department for
                                              Grant                       91.35               91.35       100%
International Development (DFID)
IDA                                           Grant                      125.00             125.00       100%
Italy                                         Grant                       74.00             38.25 4      51.7%
Total                                                                    580.00             529.22       91.2%

Note : Gains in financing were made due to significant fluctuations in the exchange rate of the PKR
favoring the grants.




3
  This includes financing by the Government of Pakistan, IDA funding, DFID TF managed by the Bank, and funds
provided by other donors. For details see (b).
4
  An Italian share of US$21.6 million was still outstanding at closing, tied to delays in the procurement of an auditor
for the previous Italian disbursements.




                                                         18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Effective delivery of cash grants to flood affected victims (total actual
cost US$514.22 million)

The component was to provide cash grants to eligible households in two installments
through the commercial banking system. Beneficiaries were identified through
provincial housing damage data, and verified by NADRA through its population data
base and spot checks in the field. All eligible beneficiaries were to receive, irrespective
of the degree of damage to their houses, a total of PKR 40,000 (about US$390
equivalent) in two (?) installments of PKR 20,000 each. A grievance redressal system
was to address grievances related to national identity cards, eligibility, and payments.
To ensure transparency, eligibility criteria and beneficiary lists were to be published on
the NADRA website and in hard copy at the union council level by district authorities.
The component provided 1,204,624 people with cash benefits. Total complaints received
till the reporting period were 10,813. Analysis revealed that about 7,828 (71 percent) of
the complaints were lodged against the Banks including either there was no cash at the
ATM or the ATM was over-crowded or due to load shedding the ATM was out of service.
Most of such cases were happened in Baluchistan and Sindh. A total of 441 corruption
cases were lodged.
Component 2: Strengthen program management, monitoring and evaluation (total
actual cost US$15.00 million)
The component was to provide technical assistance to enhance program management,
transparency and accountability at the federal, provincial and local levels through
capacity building, communication and public information, monitoring and evaluation.
The main areas of technical assistance included:
•   Operational Audits to review the performance of the program throughout the project
    cycle including beneficiary targeting, payments, grievance redressal, public
    information, management and oversight.
•   Communications and Public Information. To inform beneficiaries of key
    information and minimize public grievances, NADRA developed an internal and
    external training and communication strategy to inform beneficiary populations of the
    program and payment schedule.
•   IT software development and hardware complemented the existing MIS and
    develop additional modules (e.g. for grievance redressal) including decentralized
    utilization of the MIS.
•   Strengthening of the Cabinet Division. Short and long-term consultancies supported
    the Cabinet Division in coordination and policy preparation functions.
•   Strengthening of PDMAs/district authorities through capacity building by
    technical assistance Capacity will be built through technical assistance.
•   Impact Evaluation. Using appropriate ex-post impact evaluation techniques to
    provide statistically robust information on the short to medium term effects of Phase I


                                            19
    and Phase II cash transfers on beneficiary households’ consumption, labor and
    investment outcomes and coping strategies.
•   Fiduciary and program management. Individual consultants including international
    and national technical experts and fiduciary consultants were contracted.




                                         20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

An economic and financial analysis was not done (see Section on Efficiency). The
following summarizes the impact of the project on beneficiary households and their
behavior, drawing on the findings of an impact evaluation report for the project (2013).
In terms of losses, livestock loss affected 35 percent of treatment households and many
households had other productive and household assets damaged by the floods. 28 percent
of households had at least one durable good damaged beyond repair, and an additional 17
percent experienced a repairable damage to a durable good. Further to the direct damage
caused by the flood, negative coping strategies adopted in direct response to the flooding
led households to further deplete their stock of productive assets. The average livestock
owning family incurred losses of livestock averaging approximately PKR 50,000. In
addition, the majority of households who are crop agriculture dependent, lost crucial
harvest crops from the spring Rabi harvest of 2010, as well as the loss of vital seed and
fertilisers required to restart in the winter Kharif season. To this should be added the loss
of income for households dependent on agricultural jobs.
In assessing the value of the transfer compared to the damages, the total damage to the
average flood affected household was PKR 57,402. Flood affected households may have
received up to a total of PKR 60,000 if they benefited from all three tranches that were
provided in Phases I and II. Thus for many households even the full value of both Phases
of the CDCP transfer would not be sufficient to compensate for the full value of the loss
caused by the flooding. In other households who were less severely affected by the
flooding it is likely that the value of the transfer was more than losses. This suggests that
in the future, consideration should be given to the possibility of flexibility in the value of
transfer. While this would require extra effort in the targeting stage, it would ensure that
the transfer more accurately reflected the needs of the beneficiaries and would free up
extra resources for those who are the most severely affected by future flooding.
While beneficiary households could use the benefit as they wished, an underlying driver
was to support asset building and livelihood restoration. In line with this, benefits were
mainly spent on repair & other house building related expenditures (22 percent).
Expenditures on food took up 21 percent of the value of the transfer. Some 15 percent
was used for debt repayment, mainly of debt accumulated to cope with flood-generated
shocks, as borrowing from relatives was the most commonly used coping strategy. Some
14 percent was spent on agriculture and livestock, household assets and non-farm
business investment.
The emphasis of spending on asset building may reflect the lag between the shock and
receipt of the cash. Where cash is being provided as emergency relief, the majority of the
funds are often spent on immediate consumption. When the situation is less acute, cash
can help to stimulate productive investment. The CDCP II transfers reached a large
number of households more than a year and a half after the flooding, when they had
already applied their coping strategy; selling livestock or increasing their debt levels.




                                             21
Their needs were therefore to invest in productive assets, as immediate needs, such as
basic essentials (i.e. food) has already been satisfied or dealt with.
                 Annex Table. Project Transfers by Expenditure Type 5

                            % of Total Value by Expenditure
                                           Type
                           Repair & other house
                                                     22
                           building related
                           Food                      21
                           Debt Repayment            15
                           Medicines and health
                                                     13
                           services
                           Agriculture and
                                                     10
                           livestock purchases
                           Household assets          3
                           Education                 1
                           Non-farm business
                                                     1
                           investment
                           Savings                   1
                           Other                     13
                                                    100

There is some evidence that efficiency was somewhat diluted by a slow startup of the
project, and delays in benefit payments. The first benefits were distributed almost a year
after project approval, or some two years after the flood. Three years after the flood, 63
percent of eligible households had received both tranches, 24 percent had received one
tranche, while 13 percent had not yet received a benefit. With such delays, beneficiary
households are likely already to have addressed immediate needs, influencing how
project moneys would be spent. A one-off cash transfer given in the early stages of
emergencies is likely to be spent on priority basic needs, such as food and emergency
health care. Transfers given later in the recovery stage may be better suited for
investments and recovery of livelihood assets. CDCP II presents a mixed picture, with
the bulk of benefit spending going to housing repairs, food and debt repayment. In part
this may reflect the emphasis of selection criteria on the assessment of housing damage
and the less well-off. In part it may also reflect the design of benefit delivery. Cash
transfers were delivered in two separate tranches rather than all at once. In the impact
evaluation, several beneficiary focus groups indicated that PKR 20,000 was a small
amount relative to requirements for indivisible asset purchases.




5
    Source: Impact Evaluation Report (2013)




                                              22
Annex 4. The main elements of the Memorandum of Understanding on changes
to the CDCP process, agreed between the Government and the Bank


      MoU points                                                 Agreed Actions
Adopt improved              Housing damage, captured through provincial surveys in flood affected areas, would
targeting                   target beneficiary households for Phase II. The Bank and donors agreed subject to the
                            following: 1) satisfactory validation of the survey methodology and data to ensure that
                            it is objective and accurate; 2) exclusion of the well-off; 3) equal payment for
                            beneficiary independent of the extent of housing damage; 4) inclusion of
                            legitimate flood affected vulnerable households from Phase I not eligible through the
                            targeting criteria in Phase II.
Clarify the roles and       Institutional roles clarified by assigning the Cabinet Division and NADRA the
financing by Federal        respective roles that they had performed in the first phase, appropriately enhanced with
and Provincial levels:      technical assistance. The Government co-financing for the CDCP Phase II was
                            confirmed.
Disburse the payments       Beneficiaries were to receive two installments of PKR 20,000 each.
in installments
Strengthen the              The grievance redressal and public information campaign in coordination with
grievance redressal         PDMA’s, for Phase II was to be improved. The Government agreed
mechanism and               to settle all legitimate grievances of Phase I
institute a robust public
information campaign
Deploy robust               A third-party rapid implementation evaluation of the first phase of the CDCP
evaluation systems          was deployed in January 2011. A more rigorous impact evaluation was to be carried
                            out in Phase II. Operational audits were also to be fielded.
Formal contracts with       Were to be negotiated
participating
commercial banks
Strengthen governance       The project would emphasize governance through effective controls and accountability
of the program              mechanisms (above) as well as public disclosure of program performance, hotlines for
                            grievances, and strengthening of oversight institutions e.g. Cabinet Division.
Develop advisory            NGOs were to provide advisory services to beneficiaries once the payments are made.
services for the poor to    This was to be done through targeted communication and coordination with the main
assist in responsible use   service providers such as Rural Support Program Network (RSPN), Pakistan Poverty
of funds                    Alleviation Fund (PPAF), Strengthening Participatory Organization (SPO), and
                            others.
Time-bound action plan      The Government understood the need to develop more sustainable mechanisms for the
for the development of a    recovery phase of disasters. Cabinet Division was tasked with this endeavor. The
future disaster recovery    Action Plan was to be a condition of disbursement of category 2 (cash transfers) of the
response through cash       proposed Bank project.
transfers that include
appropriate mechanism
for asset recovery
Source: PAD




                                                   23
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
            Names                       Title                   Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Andrea Vermehren        Senior Social Protection Specialist      SASSP
                        (Co-Task Team Leader)
Iftikhar Malik          Senior Social Protection Specialist (Co- SASSP
                        Task team leader)
Cem Mete                Senior Economist                         SASSP
Maria Gracheva          Senior Operations Officer                SASHN
Naoko Ohno              Operations Officer                       SASHN
Nistha Sinha            Senior Economist                         PRMGE
Yue Man Lee             Young Professional                       SASHD
Kelly Johnson           Extended term Consultant                 OPCFC
Amjad Zafar Khan        Extended Term Consultant                 SASSP
Martin Serrano          Senior Counsel                           LEGES
Akiko Ogawa             Counsel                                  LEGES
Asif Ali                Senior Procurement Specialist            SARPS
Shahzad Sharjeel        Senior Communications Officer            SAREX
Khalid Bin Ajum         Procurement Specialist                   SARPS
Hasan Saqib             Sr. Financial Management Specialist SARFM
Chau-Ching Shen         Sr. Financial Officer                    CTRFC
Anwar Bhatti            Financial Analyst                        SACPK
Chaohua Zhang           Sr. Social Sector Specialist             SASDS
Samina Musarrat Islam   Social Development Specialist            SASDI
                        (Consultant)
Javaid Afzal            Senior Environment Specialist            SASDI
Francisco Ayala         Consultant                               ECSHD
Alison Barrett          Consultant                               SASHD
Quanita Ali Khan        Consultant                               SASSP
Mohammed Aslam Malik    Team Assistant                           SASSP
Elfrida Vincent         Program Assistant                        SASSP

Supervision/ICR
Iftikhar Malik          Senior Social Protection Specialist (Co- SASSP
                        Task team leader)
Cem Mete                Senior Economist                         SASSP
Maria Gracheva          Senior Operations Officer                SASHN
Naoko Ohno              Operations Officer                       SASHN
Kelly Johnson           Operations Officer (Co-Task Team         SASSP
                        Leader
Amjad Zafar Khan        Social Protection Specialist             SASSP
Martin Serrano          Senior Councel                           LEGES
Shahzad Sharjeel        Senior Communications Officer            SAREX
Khalid Bin Ajum         Procurement Specialist                   SARPS
Hasan Saqib             Sr. Financial Management Specialist SARFM
Chau-Ching Shen         Sr. Financial Officer                    CTRFC
Anwar Bhatti            Financial Analyst                        SACPK


                                         24
Shahzad Sharjeel          Senior Communications Officer         SAREX
Khalid Bin Ajum           Procurement Specialist                SARPS
Hasan Saqib               Sr. Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
Chau-Ching Shen           Sr. Financial Officer                 CTRFC
Anwar Bhatti              Financial Analyst                     SACPK
Quanita Ali Khan          Consultant                            SASSP
Mohammed Aslam Malik      Team Assistant                        SASSP
Elfrida Vincent           Program Assistant                     SASSP
Mohammad Khalid Khan      Program Assistant                     SASSP

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                         USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks       (including travel and
                                                         consultant costs)
Lending                         111.10                   749,316.83
Total:                          111.10                          749,316.83
Supervision/ICR                 101.31                          427,145.39
Total:                          101.31                          427,145.39




                                           25
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results 6

The beneficiary survey compares the situation of beneficiary and non-beneficiary
households at the time of their selection into the programme (baseline), with their
situation 12 months later. Over that 12 month period beneficiary households were
expected to receive PKR 40,000 in two tranches of PKR 20,000.

Experience with the CDCP Phase II transfer

Despite the launch of an extensive grievance redressal mechanism, 32 percent of
flood affected households who attempted to become Phase II beneficiaries were
unsuccessful in their applications. Exclusions errors were partly explained by high
exclusions in Balochistan which as significant accessibility, security and administrative
challenges. Based on the initial survey prior to launching the grievance process, errors of
exclusion were at 61 percent.
Almost 40% of households entered a grievance case because: 1) they were excluded
due to completed housing repairs; or 2) housing damage was not assessed; or 3)
assessment findings were considered incorrect by the household.
Beneficiaries experienced delays in receiving payments, with just 63% of beneficiaries
having received both tranches of the transfer and 13 percent of households having
received neither tranche, more than a year after the inauguration of Phase II and almost
three years after the 2010 flooding.
Despite these delays beneficiaries were in general satisfied with the enrolment and
payment mechanisms. The majority of households expressed that their experience with
both of these mechanisms was either good or very good.
There was less satisfaction expressed with the grievance redressal mechanisms.
Whilst this is likely a reflection of the proportion of households who had a grievance case
rejected, there was some evidence from the qualitative research of a lack of
responsiveness and transparency in the process from the point of view of the applicants.
The majority of the CDCP Phase II transfer was spent on house repair, food and
debt repayment. Suggesting that many households are still recovering their basic
requirements following the flooding, though there was also evidence of some expenditure
on productive assets, particularly for agriculture or livestock.

Livelihoods and household productive assets
Flood affected households are predominantly dependent on agriculture. However,
the demand for labour in flood affected communities has contracted and workers are
moving away from farm wage labour to work on own farm.



6
    The text is drawn from the CDCP Impact Evaluation Report




                                            26
There appears to be little impact on the proportion of the adult population that is
inactive, allaying fears that a cash grant may discourage adult work. Instead, there is a
reduction in the level of child labour particularly in Punjab and Balochistan.
There is strong evidence that migration is becoming an increasingly important
livelihood strategy for flood affected households, with both the likelihood of a
household having a member who has migrated and the total number of migrating
members increasing over the period of the evaluation.
The CDCP Phase II transfer reduced the number of migrating members in Punjab,
suggesting that at least in the short term the transfer has protected beneficiary households
from adopting migration as a livelihood strategy.
The CDCP Phase II transfer has had a positive impact on livestock ownership in all
provinces bar Punjab. This is likely a result of households rebuilding herds lost to the
flooding. The transfer has had an impact on the ownership of some productive assets
including blacksmithing tools and motorcycles.


Economic and material welfare and poverty
Despite impact on purchases of livestock and productive assets, there is no impact
on consumption expenditure. This finding is consistent with the fact that the CDCP
Phase II transfer is a one-off cash grant, rather than a regular and reliable source of
income which could be used by to consistently increase their level of consumption.
Despite the CDCP Phase II transfer, poverty rates did not change in most provinces
and in fact increased in Sindh and Balochistan. Many households in Sindh and
Balochistan have experienced multiple rounds of flooding and it is likely that this is
contributing to the increase in poverty observed. However the transfers did reduce the
likelihood that households reduced food consumption as a coping mechanism suggesting
they prevented further increases in poverty.
The CDCP Phase II transfer does not have an impact on household amenities
including access to clean drinking water, sanitation and electricity.

Food security
There was no positive impact of the CDCP Phase II transfer on household food security
across multiple measure of food security. In line with the findings on poverty, there was
evidence of increased food insecurity for flood affected households in Sindh and
Balochistan in terms of overall food expenditure and dietary diversity.
The CDCP Phase II transfer does not impact child nutrition, and child malnutrition was
found to be at critical levels. Child nutrition is dependent on a number of factors other
than economic access that the Phase II transfer does not address. These include the
general levels of hygiene and sanitation prevalent in a community, education levels of
parents particularly the mother and the morbidity of children.




                                             27
Access to services
There was no impact on savings and the proportion of households with savings
remains low. However, financial penetration remains low particularly in flood affected
communities which are predominantly rural. Furthermore evidence of impact on
livestock and other productive assets could indicate that households are using other
informal savings methods.
There was no impact on expenditure on health and only a small impact on education
expenditure in Sindh. The lack of impact on health expenditure is likely related to
households viewing health spending as a necessity which must be ‘afforded’ in the face
of a health shock. The lack of a significant impact on education expenditure is likely
related to the nature of the cash grant. Given that it is one off households will not rely on
it for the continued education of their children.


Vulnerability to shocks
The CDCP Phase II transfer significantly reduces the likelihood of reducing food
consumption in the face of an exogenous shock suggesting that the Phase II transfer has
had a role to play in protecting households against shocks to their welfare.




                                             28
Annex 7. Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Genesis of CDCP

Over the course of the monsoon season in July and August 2010, Pakistan
experienced the worst floods in its history. Heavy rainfall caused flash and riverine floods
in the north and north-western regions of Pakistan (parts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa [KP],
Gilgit Baltistan [GB], Balochistan, and Azad Jammu and Kashmir [AJK]) that combined
to create a moving body of water equal in dimension to the land mass of the United
Kingdom traveling southwards. The floods affected 78 districts and nearly 10% of
Pakistan’s population over a vast geographical area. The National Disaster Management
Authority (NDMA) has estimated that in the affected districts, the floods covered over
100,000 square km affecting more than 20 million people3, with over 1,980 reported
deaths and nearly 2,946 injured. Approximately 1.6 million homes have been destroyed,
and 2.4 million hectares of crops damaged. The Multi-Cluster Rapid Humanitarian
Needs Assessment (McRAM) conducted in August 2010 found that farm and non- farm
livelihoods were severely affected with 60% of households describing themselves
as without a main source of livelihood post floods, and 53% of households reporting 76-
100% decline in household incomes. The overall recovery and reconstruction cost
associated with the floods is estimated to be between US$8.7 and US$10.8 billion, which
includes costs for relief, early recovery, and medium to long term reconstruction.
International experience and evidence largely endorses the use of cash transfers at the
recovery stage of post disaster response. In light of the lessons from international
experience on best practice, the Citizen’s
Damage Compensation Program has been
reasonably designed and implemented.
                                                   The floods were likely to have worsened
The initial payment of PKR 20,000 helped
                                                   the poverty situation in Pakistan. Support
households to cover immediate needs.               to flood affected households was
However, it was unlikely to be sufficient          essential in mitigating the adverse effects
for recapitalization of assets given the           of income shocks and increased poverty
extent of damage and loss. The rapid               and vulnerability. Pakistan’s existing
evaluation of Phase I found families               social safety nets were unable to cope
spending the grants mostly on food,                with the scale of support needed at the
healthcare and medicines, repair of                recovery stage. Therefore, a rapid
housing, and paying off debts. The GoP             response cash transfer program focused
sought to provide total additional                 on supporting flood affected families was
payments of PKR 40,000 to flood affected
households. The selection of beneficiaries
was based on their housing damage as a
proxy for eligibility. In addition, particularly vulnerable flood affected households
(female and disabled headed households) from Phase I were included. Beneficiaries
were expected to use these funds to not only cover basic consumption but to also
recapitalize assets, recover their livelihoods and repair housing. The GoP sought to
provide these additional payments to an estimated 1.1 million households. As there
were, on average, 6.9 people per household in flood affected areas in Pakistan,



                                             29
the program was expected to reach between 7.5 and 8.3 million people.
Program Objectives
The objective of the program was to support the recovery of flood affected households
by assisting the Government of Pakistan in strengthening the implementation of its
Citizen’s Damage Compensation Program. This was achieved through the provision of
cash grants to selected households through the banking system (Component 1), and
through technical assistance to enhance program management, transparency and
accountability at the federal, provincial and local levels through capacity building,
communication and public information, monitoring and evaluation, as well as
coordination of advisory services for beneficiaries (Component 2).

Key performance indicators

The following set of quantitative and qualitative indicators was used to assess project
performance:

Coverage:
At least 1 million flood affected, eligible households benefit from cash grants.

Targeting efficiency
Average baseline poverty score of CDCP II families will be lower than average baseline
poverty scores of non CDCP families in each province.

Efficient delivery:
At least 70% of beneficiaries express satisfaction with the Program’s delivery system.

Achievements of CDCP

Component 1
Component 1 comprised of effective delivery of cash grants to flood affected families.
The component provided cash grants to eligible households in two installments through
the commercial banking system. Following are the details highlighting the CDCP
achievements;

Enrolment
The program provided payments to an estimated 1.1 million households identified
through the provincial housing damage data, and verified by NADRA through
triangulation with the beneficiary database of Phase I of the program, as well as
independent spot checks according to mutually agreed parameters. The Program included
beneficiaries which were registered in the notified flood- affected areas including the
legitimate vulnerable.

           Province wise Breakup – Watan Card Facilitation Centers
S. No. Province                Total Affected Total WCFCs Closing Date
                               Districts      Launched
1      Khyber pakhtunkhwa             26             26         Jan 31, 2013


                                            30
2         Baluchistan                       13                 14          Jan 31, 2013
3         Sindh                             14                 17          Jan 31, 2013
4         AJ&K                              10                 10          Mar 31, 2013
5         Gilgit Baltistan                  07                 05          Jan 31, 2013
6         Punjab                            11                 21          Dec 31, 2012

         Beneficiaries’ Biometric Verification and Debit Card Processing
S. No. Province                   Total Caseload Processed         Processed
                                                   (NADRA)         (Banks)
1      Khyber pakhtunkhwa                 312,477          302,314         302,112
2      Baluchistan                        124,537          117,295         116,966
3      Sindh                              433,180          416,081         415,644
4      AJ&K                                14,951           14,309          14,302
5      Gilgit Baltistan                    12,823           12,445          12,423
6      Punjab                             351,253          345,859         345,816
       TOTAL                            1,249,221        1,208,303       1,207,439

Payments
All eligible beneficiaries received, irrespective of the degree of damage to their houses, a
total of PKR 40,000. Payments were made in installments of PKR 20,000 each, and were
staggered within and between districts and provinces in accordance with the logistic plan
agreed with partner Banks. The program included provisions for a 10% contingency to
attend the grievances of eligible beneficiaries. Payments were delivered using the same
system as Phase I, wherein beneficiaries were paid using ATM/debit cards issued to them
during Phase I. Phase II beneficiaries were re-certified by NADRA if necessary and
informed of the amount, payment period, and payment points as well what documentation
to bring to the payment center via a communications campaign. Informed by NADRA of
the list of beneficiaries, Partner Banks set up Point of Sale and ATM machines at
payment centers, created virtual accounts for payment and activated debit cards enabling
beneficiaries to withdraw their funds. Help lines were set-up by NADRA and the Partner
Banks to support beneficiaries who encounter difficulties with withdrawing their funds,
lost their debit cards or PIN or experienced other issues related to payment.

Sr. No.  Province                                       Total Amount Disbursed (PKR)
1        Khyber pakhtunkhwa                                 12,049,940,000
2        Baluchistan                                          3,474,560,000
3        Sindh                                              16,161,740,000
4        AJ&K                                                   570,000,000
5        Gilgit Baltistan                                       496,720,000
6        Punjab                                             13,813,760,000
         TOTAL                                              46,566,720,000
Grievance Redressal System

Grievance redressal centers were opened and staffed by NADRA and District officials
(DCOs). These were responsible for addressing grievances related to eligibility, and
inform appellants as to why they were excluded. Depending on the nature of the


                                            31
grievance, different stakeholders were responsible for providing solution to the
grievances:


Grievances related to Computerized National Identity Cards (CNIC)

NADRA ensured the updating of CNICs, as appropriate, including changes in family
status, updating address, family name etc. NADRA also regularly updated the beneficiary
database, as per the updated lists received from the PDMAs. NADRA operated help lines
for beneficiaries to address grievances related to CNIC details.

Sr. No.    Province                  Updates Filed Updates Resolved Pending
1          Khyber pakhtunkhwa                 1,104           1,096     08
2          Baluchistan                        1,004             986     18
3          Sindh                                524             500     24
4          AJ&K                                 123             123      0
5          Gilgit Baltistan                      10              10      0
6          Punjab                             3,055           3,047      8
           TOTAL                              5,820           5,762     58

Grievances related to eligibility/targeting

The District Administration was the key local body collating the beneficiary lists based
on household damage. The beneficiaries whose names did not appear in the lists were
first checked with their local authority at the moaza/goth/village level and requested for
an update. This information was then passed on the District Administration, who
subsequently informed the PDMAs to update the beneficiary lists. These updated
beneficiary lists were then sent to NADRA, who verified and included eligible
beneficiaries into the formal lists for generation of payments and issuance of Watan cards.
Where the District Administrations failed to effectively manage these grievances, the
respective PDMA was responsible for ensuring the capacity and transparency of the
process.

Province          Appeals             Resolved by       Approved by           Passed
                  Lodged                 DRC               DRC               through
                                                                          Business Rules
Punjab                    301,802            301,802            35,754            31,266
Sindh                     436,810            433,957           214,733           184,556
KPK                       284,125            277,263            53,876            32,398
GB                         13,499             13,452             9,384             8,380
AJK                        25,034             24,892             9,984             7,780
Baluchistan               118,686            110,613            88,661            74,473
TOTAL                   1,179,956          1,161,979           412,392           338,853

Grievances related to District Administration, NADRA or Partner Banks



                                           32
The partner commercial banks responded to grievances related to payments, such as lost
Watan cards, forgotten PIN numbers etc., the Partner Banks operated dedicated hotlines.
These help-lines were used to provide guidance about the different grievance processes.


Total Closed Complaints
Status                DA       NADRA Alfalah    UBL       HBL
Closed Complaints        2213      711      126     1727       5944
Total Complaints         2250      715      132     1752       5944
%age                      98.4    99.4     95.5      98.6     100.0

Component 2

It comprised of strengthening program management, monitoring and evaluation (total
estimated cost – US$10 million). This component provided technical assistance to
enhance program management, transparency and accountability at the federal, provincial
and local levels through capacity building, communication and public information,
monitoring and evaluation, as well as coordinating of advisory services for beneficiaries.
This component was implemented by NADRA. The main areas of technical assistance
included:

Operational Audits
The objective of the audit process was to review the performance of the program
throughout the project cycle including beneficiary targeting, payments, grievance
redressal, public information, management and oversight.
Communications and Public Information
To inform beneficiaries of key information and minimize public grievances, NADRA
developed an effective internal and external training and communication strategy. This
also informed existing organizations providing advisory services to beneficiary
populations of the program and payment schedule allowing them to provide timely
support to beneficiaries.
IT software development and hardware
IT software and hardware was developed / procured to complement the existing
Management Information System (MIS) and develop additional modules (e.g. for
grievance redressal) including decentralized utilization of the MIS.
Strengthening of the Cabinet Division
Short and long-term consultancies were hired to support Cabinet Division in its
coordination and policy preparation functions (for NODMC), as well as in strategic
questions on future disaster management with regard to cash transfers. Assistance
was also provided to strengthen the financial management capacity of the Division
through staffing and provision of improved office facilities.
Strengthening of PDMAs/DCOs
Capacity was enhanced through technical assistance, training and possible hard and
software acquisitions to support their playing an active role in this and future emergency




                                           33
programs. Assistance was given to enhance their role in operations, outreach,
communication and monitoring of the program.
Impact Evaluation
Impact evaluation was carried out by using appropriate ex-post impact evaluation
techniques to provide statistically robust information on the short to medium term effects
of Phase I and Phase II cash transfers on beneficiary households consumption, labor
and investment outcomes and coping strategies. Negative or positive spillover effects on
the local economy and community was assessed. It also explored the extent to which any
households have been inappropriately excluded from the program and if so whether there
were any common factors leading to their exclusion. Following are the key findings of
impact evaluation exercise;
    • The payments system seems to have been a success with beneficiary households
        satisfied with the way in which payments were delivered to them with more than
        80% of beneficiaries reporting that they thought the payments system was very
        good or good.
    • Encouragingly it was found that the CDCP transfer reduced the incidence of child
        labor by 9% in Punjab.
    • Evidence was found that the CDCP induced an increase in the incidence of
        livestock ownership by 4% nationally with statistically significant impact in Sindh
        (impact of 8%) and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (impact of 16%). Further, CDCP Phase
        II transfer enabled beneficiary households to purchase larger animals such as
        cows and buffaloes.
    • In addition, the CDCP appears to have had an impact on the ownership of
        productive assets). In particular the transfer has caused an increase in the
        ownership of blacksmithing tools (7%), sewing/knitting tools (5%), food
        preparation tools (7%) and motorcycles (7%).
    • CDCP transfer may eventually have an impact on consumption expenditure and
        poverty through its indirect effects on livelihood recovery.
    • It was found that the CDCP transfer impacted on the proportion of households
        whose main coping strategy was to consume less or lower quality food.


Lessons Learnt
The program has generated following lessons learnt during its implementation.

Enrolment & Payment
   • Electronic ticketing can be used through the SMS Server for more
      effective/planned mobilization in any future programs.
   • At the time of issuance of ATM Cards at WCFCs, the ATM card number should
      be saved in the NADRA database against the particular CNIC. This will help
      eliminate chances of malpractices and aid in data reconciliation activities.
   • The partner banks must provide real-time electronic feedback to the implementing
      agency for each transaction and payment to beneficiaries. This will provide the
      stakeholder with the opportunity to track the progress of payments made to the
      beneficiaries.



                                            34
   •   Installation of Point of sale (POS) to be ensured for facilitating payments to
       beneficiaries at the centers; adopting one window operation mechanism.
   •   Provision of a valid mobile number should be mandatory for all beneficiaries of
       any future programs. This number can be used by all the stakeholders for
       contacting the beneficiary and in particular by the partner banks for informing the
       beneficiaries about card activation and amount withdrawal.

Grievance Redressal
   • GR Registration time period should be identified at the Planning stage of the
      program and a cut-off date should also be communicated to the beneficiaries
      accordingly. This will ensure that the beneficiaries are fully aware of the program
      Grievance mechanism and duration at the time of registration.
   • A mechanism should be officially recognized by all stakeholders that enables the
      District Administration to provide a schedule for mobilization of the GR
      appellants in registration of their appeals. This would help organize the queue
      management at the facilitation centers.
   • At the time of Data Entry of GR, the CNIC validation and verification should be
      made part of the MIS. This will ensure the appellant is valid and further filter out
      any fraudulent or invalid CNICs registration; hence reducing the invalid entries in
      the system and ensuring a more accurate and transparent system.
   • A provision to resolve/review the Appeal Cases using the real-time MIS system.
      This will help track the appeals within the system, eliminating the issue of
      missing appeal cases. It will also enable NADRA to generate real-time reports for
      Appeals.

Monitoring & Evaluation
  • For future programs, the Monitoring & Evaluation function should be
      strengthened to cater the program needs at the time of inception.
  • Operational Audit function has been instrumental in providing external
      monitoring to the project. For future preparedness, Operational Audit firms should
      be identified and reserved (with MOUs) by the stakeholders so that the quick
      mobilization of operations is underway in case of any future calamity/disaster
      response.
  • Instructional Capacity of PDMAs should be strengthened for Monitoring &
      Evaluation.
Public Information Campaign
   • Before launching any future programs, a work shop may be held at Divisional
       level for briefing the concerned stakeholders about the awareness of the program
       as well as the Campaigns and their role in beneficiary facilitation.
   • Metrics and methodology to determine the accurate effectiveness of the media
       campaigns should be devised in the Planning stage of any future programs. This
       would highlight the accurate representation of the effectiveness of the Campaigns.
   • Social Mobilization also plays a major part in any PIC for information
       dissemination to the beneficiaries. It is suggested that the traditional methods
       (Announcements from the Masjid, School Teachers and Patwaris) in rural areas



                                           35
       are found to be most effective for social mobilization and special funds may be
       dedicated for this purpose.
Borrower’s Rating of Performance
Overall, the performance of CDCP can be rated as “Satisfactory” as the program has
achieved its objectives of covering 1.2 million flood affected households out of which
more than 80% were satisfied with the cash assistance and delivery mechanism. There
were significant improvements in a number of indicators such as livelihood recovery,
assets, economic & material welfare, food security, access to services and vulnerability to
shocks (reference Impact Evaluation Report).

Bank’s Performance
The World Bank and development partners were very much proactive in providing
necessary support for preparation and implementation of Program operations.




                                            36
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The following draws on comments in DFID’s assessment of the program. It largely
expresses concerns or views that also were expressed by IOM, USAID and the
Italian representative. It is a strongly abridged version of DFID’s conclusions.

Impact. CDCP II has met expectations in terms of the number of flood-affected people
who benefited from the transfer and meets targets on women beneficiaries. Few other
interventions following the 2010 floods had such wide coverage and feedback from the
Government and targeted communities has been positive. CDCP II allowed beneficiaries
to meet some of their immediate food and health needs and to rebuild their home or paid
debts from earlier rebuilding efforts. The Impact Evaluation demonstrated it enabled
beneficiaries to replenish some of their livestock. Yet the payments did little for the
poverty rate, childhood nutrition or food security. Part of this is due to the size of the
transfer and the serious payment delays. Exclusion errors reduced its potential coverage
to more flood-affected households.

Targeting. While beneficiaries were satisfied with the transfers, CDCP II had serious
delays, starting with the initial targeting system. Several aspects were at odds with the
nature of the floods: (i) the household damage survey required a member of the
household be physically present to provide CNIC information, even though the floods
had displaced many households for months; (ii) it was clear villages in flood plains had a
very high proportion of their households affected and individual household damage
surveys were unnecessary; (iii) while household damage was designed as a proxy for
flood affectedness, it underemphasized wider livelihoods impact (such as damage to
agriculture land/crops, livestock); (iv) assessments based on household damage were
time-consuming and costly to administer.

Government systems, the operational audit, the third party validation and the support to
grievance redressal worked effectively to [avoid inclusion errors]. In contrast, there was
relatively little focus on exclusion errors.

Grievance. Thirty percent of the ultimate beneficiaries came through the grievance
mechanism and this added to efforts, corruption risks, administration costs and delays.
Although the grievance process was well managed, relying on proactive complaints
through the grievance mechanism was likely to exclude the vulnerable and marginalized.
.
Communications. Beneficiaries had varying degrees of awareness about the source of
funds. Some knew it was from the government, but still others did not, and some of the
groups surveyed believed it was direct from God, from Benazir Bhutto from the grave or
from Turkey. Beneficiary feedback and the high number of grievances suggest the
communication campaign was insufficient in informing people about eligibility criteria.
There was too great a focus on formal media (e.g. newspapers). Through IOM, DFID
provided NADRA with important resources for communications, but the campaign
terminated early, leaving communities with little information on the closure of centers:
some were still waiting further payments.


                                           37
Payments. The use of debit cards and national ID card verification contributed to a
transparent implementation with minimal fraud and financial mismanagement. The
majority of recipients were satisfied with the use of debit cards, though they would have
preferred a single, large transfer to be able to invest in larger assets.

Risks. Many of the risks considered high in the initial WB project document did not
materialize. The risk of improper use of funds was minimized by the World Bank’s
fiduciary controls, the use of bank accounts, mag-stripe cards combined with biometric
identification, and through Third Party Validation. Implementing Agencies and
Provincial Governments reported they valued the additional rigor brought by World Bank
systems. The central risk management forum was the Operational Steering Committee
(OSC) which most partners felt was an effective forum for discussing and acting on
emerging risks. There was evidence that some of the OSC was not receptive to some of
the challenges identified by PDMAs, such as the speed at which the initial household
damage survey could be completed. The Operational Audit undertaken by Deloitte was
an important source of information on practical challenges and the experience of
beneficiaries.

Governance. World Band technical assistance and the trust fund appears to have
provided a good coordinating center and fiduciary reassurances, however there is room to
make better use of technical expertise in social protection.

Sustainability. There has been some good capacity building and sharing of experiences
amongst provinces, but with significant expertise held by individuals, there is a risk of
knowledge being lost. Provincial Disaster Management Authorities are functional and
active at provincial level, but have limited actual presence in the districts. District
Disaster Management Authorities are only partially functional and district-level capacity
to monitor or support CDCP payments or complaints is limited.

Value for Money. CDCP II was very “cost-efficient” with low program costs relative to
the transfers to beneficiaries.




                                           38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

CDCP – Building Resilience – Case Study, June 2013, World Bank
CDCP Impact Evaluation Report, Oxford Policy Management, August 2013
DFID – Project Completion Review – CDCPII, February, 2014
Emergency Project Paper – Pakistan Flood Emergency Cash Transfer Project, March 16,
2011
Final Operational Audit Report – CDCP II; Deloitte, December 13, 2013
Implementation Status and Results (ISR) 2,3,5,6
Memorandum of Understanding between Pakistan, the US, the World Bank and
Additional Development Partners, June 9, 2011
Restructuring Paper – Pakistan Flood Emergency Cash Transfer Project, April 30, 2013
Supervision and Evaluation Mission Reports 12/2010, 02/2011, 08/2011, 29/2011,
03/2012, 07/2012, 12/2012, 05,2013, 10/2013, 05/2014




                                          39
Annex 10. MAP




                40
