Report No. 1217-COB                                                                 FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a Second
Education Project in Congo
November 22, 1976
Projects Department
Western Afnca Regional Office
Education Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their officiai duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed withtout Worid 8ank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =     CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                 =     CFAF 225
CFAF 1 million          =     US$4,444
MEASURES
1 m             =     3.28 ft
1 m2                  10.76 sq. ft.
1 km 2                0 0.38 sq. miles
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



CONGO                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ......     .......................   i-iv
I*  INTRODUCTION       ........................................  1
II.   THE SETTING ........     .................................  1
A.   Development Setting and Prospects ............. .      1
B.  The Education System ..................                 2
External Efficiency of Education:
Employment Requirements and Output
from the Education System ...............      3
Internal Efficiency and Equal Access
to Educational Opportunities ............      5
The Government's Education Plans ..........      6
C.   The Role of the Project .................              8
III.  THE PROPOSED PROJECT ................................       8
A.   Summary ..........     ..............................  8
B.   The Project Components .........................       9
Primary Teachers College .............           9
Educational Publications Unit .............      9
Technical Teacher Training .............. ..   10
Forestry School ...........................      il
Educational Planning    .     .....    ...............   12
C.  Project Cost    ................. ..................   13
IV.   IMPLEMENTATION ......................................   15
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....     ..........   17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Congo in March 1976. The mission consisted of Ms. J. Edstrom (economist),
Messrs. W. Cooper (technical educator), B. Hubert (architect) and R. Romain
(general educator), all Bank staff, and Mr. F. Schmithusen (forestry training
specialist), FAO consultant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Sectoral Distribution of GDP, 1967-1974
3.   Formal Sector Employment by Industry Group, Occupational
Group and Nationality, 1973
4.   Projected Formal Sector Manpower Requirements and Supply, 1973-1983
5.   Projected Primary Teacher Requirements and Supply, 1975-1985
6.   Projected Technical Teacher Requirements and Supply, 1973-1985
7.   Internal Efficiency of Primary Education, 1974
8.   Recurrent Education Expenditure, 1974
9.   Cost per Student-Year by Level of Education, 1974
10.   Summary of Estimated Project Costs
11.   Contingency Allowances
12.   Allocation of Financing by Category of Expenditure
13.   Requirements for Technical Assistance and Fellowships
14.   Schedule of Disbursements
15.   Disbursements by Year and Major Category of Expenditure
16.   Implementation Schedule
CHARTS
1.   Structure of the Education System, 1975
2.   Structure of the Ministries of Education, 1976
3.   School Enrollments Pyramid, 1975
MAP
IBRD 12284R Congo: Second Education Project



GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
DCUH:    Direction de la Construction         Directorate of Construction,
de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat    Town Planning and Housing
FAC:     Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération    French Government's fund for
aid and cooperation
INRAP:   Institut National de Recher-         National Institute for Peda-
che et d'Action Pedagogique         gogical Research and Action,
responsible for developing and
testing reformed curricula and
instructional materials
INSSED:  Institut Supérieur des Sciences   Higher Institute of Education
de l'Education                      Sciences, responsible for
training secondary teachers
MEPS:    Ministere de l'Enseignement          Ministry of Primary and Second-
Primaire et Secondaire              ary Education, also responsible
for technical and adult education
MESCA:   Ministère de l'Enseignement          Ministry of Higher Education,
Supérieur chargé de la              including vocational training
Culture et des Arts                 in agriculture, health and for-
estry
MER:     Ministère de l'Economie Rurale    Ministry of the Rural Economy,
responsible for forest adminis-
tration
ONLP:    Office National des Librairies    Publi.c Bookstore Organization
Populaires






CONGO
BASIC DATA 1/
General
Area                                                    342,000 km2
Population (1974)                                       1,300,100
of which urban                                       491,600 (37.8%)
GNP per capita (market prices)                          US$500
Education
A.   Enrollments/Teachers (1974)
Unadjusted               Teachers
EnrolLment           Teacher:       %
Level                 Enrollments        Ratio 2/   Total   Pupil    Congolese
Ratio
Primary                 293,138           133%       4,649    63          100
Lower General
Secondary              58,308  )                   1,053    55           93
Upper General                     )
Secondary               8,402  )                     248    34           39
Lower Technical                   )        33%
Secondary               3,809  )                     256    15 3/        89
Upper Technical                   )
Secondary               1,433  )                      86    17 3/        36
Primary Teacher                   )
Training                  793  )                      50    16           66
University of
Brazzaville             2,509           3.4%         130    19           33
B.   Education Finance (1974)
Recurrent Cost        Distribution of Recurrent
Level                          per Student 4/        Education Expenditure (%)
Primary                        US$         48                  39.7
Lower General Secondary                    96                  15.8 )
Upper General Secondary                   238                   5.6 )   21.4
Lower Technical Secondary                 447                   4.8 )
Upper Technical Secondary                 673                   2.7 )    7.5
Primary Teacher Training                1,197                   2.7
University of Brazzaville               2,140                  21.4
Administration and other training         -                     7.3
100.0
% of GNP devoted to education 4/                                 6.0%
% of current government expenditure devoted to education        24.4%
1/   Comparative education data in Annex 1.
2/   Includes under- and over-aged students.
3/   Understates actual ratio due to inclusion of teachers
holding administrative positions.
4/   Public expenditure only.






CONGO
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a second education project in Congo, for
which a Bank loan of US$8.0 million is proposed.
ii.       As in many African countries, enrollments in the Congolese educa-
tion system have grown rapidly, responding both to popular demand and to the
Government's desire to increase the supply of trained manpower. Available
data show that Congo most closely approaches universal primary education of
any West African country, although unreliable census figures and large numbers
of over-aged students in primary school make it impossible to be absolutely
sure of the proportion of the primary age group enrolled.
iii.      The first Bank Group education project (Credit 237-COB of March
1971) provided US$3.5 million to assist the Government in increasing the
number of primary teachers and in improving the employment orientation of
secondary level education. It included provision for expansion of science
teaching in secondary schools and for the establishment of a primary teachers
college, a rural vocational training center and a technician training insti-
tute. Construction of all project schools is expected to be completed by
March 1977.  The Goverunent has requested IDA to provide supplementary
funds (US$0.5 million) for this project to cover part of the shortfall in
project financing caused by dollar devaluation.
iv.       Despite the benefits the project is expected to generate, the educa-
tion system will continue to be confronted with a number of problems relating
to both internal and external efficiency. At the primary level, the pupil/
teacher ratio and proportion of unqualified teachers will remain high even
with the anticipated output of the first project's primary teachers college.
A dearth of books and instructional materials contributes further to the low
quality of instruction at this level. Secondary level institutions are
ill-equipped to respond to manpower needs: technical schools in particular
suffer from shortages of buildings, equipment and trained Congolese teachers.
In addition, the Government's planning and administrative capacity needs
strengthening for more efficient development and leadership of the education
system.
v.        The proposed Bank project would focus on three essential areas
of constraint upon which the Government wishes to act. The project would
assist in:
(a) supporting qualitative improvements in learning opportunities,
especially at the elementary level, through:
(i) expansion and improvement of primary teacher training to
decrease the pupil/teacher ratio and the proportion of
untrained teachers, and to provide pedagogical support to
primary schools in the northern part of the country; and



- ii -
(ii) local preparation and production of textbooks and other
educational materials to increase their suitability and
availability and, in the process, to strengthen the
capabilities of the country's pedagogical research
institute to develop and test reformed curricula and
instructional materials;
(b)  adapting the system more to employment needs by establishing
programs to train secondary technical teachers and middle-
level forest technicians, thereby increasing the supply of
technicians, the level where manpower shortages are projected
to be most acute; and
(c)  reinforcing the Government's educational planning capability
so as to better program the future development of the education
system.
vi.       To meet these objectives, the proposed project would comprise:
(a)  construction or conversion of buildings, furniture and/or
equipment for:
(i)  a primary teachers college;
(ii) an educational publications unit at the National Institute
for Pedagogical Research and Action (INRAP);
(iii) a technical teacher training program at the secondary
teacher training institute;
(iv) a forestry school; and
(v)  the planning units of the two ministries of education;
(b)  the provision of 33 man-years of technical assistance and
47 man-years of fellowships for (a) above, plus archi-
tectural consultant services for preparation of a possible
future project; and
(c)  staffing, equipment and operating expenditures for project
administration.
vii.      The project unit established under Credit 237-COB, responsible to
the two education ministries, would administer the proposed second project.
The unit is headed by a senior official of the Ministry of Higher Education
(MESCA) who serves as part-time director. Full-time project unit staff would
include a coordinator, an educational adviser, an architect, an engineer
during the construction period, and support staff. The project architect
would have primary responsibility for the design, planning and supervision



- iii -
of the construction of all project institutions. He would be assisted by the
project engineer and by the Directorate of Construction, Town Planning and
Housing (Direction de la Construction, de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat - DCUH).
viii.     The total cost of the project is estimated at CFAF 2.6 billion, or
US$11.4 million equivalent, excluding taxes and customs duties, with a foreign
exchange component of US$8.0 million equivalent, representing 70 percent of
the total. The distribution of costs per category, including contingencies
and net of taxes, is as follows: civil works, 45 percent; furniture and
equipment, 23 percent; architectural services, 2 percent; technical assis-
tance and fellowships, 27 percent; and project administration, 3 percent.
Construction costs have been estimated as of Jùly 1976, on the basis of
contracts for civil works similar to those in the project, including first
project contracts adjusted for price escalation. Agreed space standards for
facilities would be within the range of other comparable facilities financed
by the Bank. The estimated average unit cost of school building construction
per square meter of gross area is US$280. This unit cost is high due to the
location of the majority of civil works in more remote areas of the country
where construction costs average at least 80 percent higher than in the
capital of Brazzaville. Based on personnel recruitment experiences of UNDP
and bilateral agencies in Congo, the estimated average cost of technical
assistance per man-year is US$66,000 (of which US$40,000 is estimated to be
for salaries). The recurrent expenditure incurred by project institutions is
expected to constitute less than two percent of the Government's recurrent
education budget and should not create financing difficulties.
ix.       Procurement contracts for building works (US$5.1 million), furniture
(US$0.4 million) and equipment (US$2.2 million) would be awarded following
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
The building works are within the capacity of Congo's construction industry;
contractors would, however, be prequalified. Based on experience under the
first project and on the expected size of the contracts, it is anticipated
that civil works contracts will be won by local firms. To the extent practi-
cable, contracts for furniture and equipment (US$2.6 million) would be let in
packages of at least US$50,000. Local manufacturers of furniture and equip-
ment would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the c.i.f. price of
competing imports or the total applicable customs duties and import taxes,
whichever is lower. Small items of furniture and equipment which cannot be
grouped in packages of at least US$50,000 would be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
x.        The funds from the Loan Account would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 100 percent of the foreign cost of equipment and materials
or 90 percent if procured locally, US$1.6 million;
(b)  70 percent of expenditures for furniture, US$0.2 million;
(c)  80 percent of expenditures for architectural services,
technical assistance and fellowships, US$2.2 million;



- iv -
(d) 70 percent of expenditures for project administration,
US$0.2 million; and
(e) 55 percent of expenditures for civil works, US$2.3 million.
US$1.5 million of the loan would be unallocated to cover contingencies. Any
funds remaining undisbursed at the completion of the project would be cancel-
led. Construction is scheduled for completion within about two years of
Loan signature. The entire implementation of the project would be completed
in approximately five years.
xi.       The proposed project forms a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$8.0 million for a period of 20 years, including a grace period of 4-1/2
years.



CONGO
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Discussions with the Government of Congo on education project prio-
rities began with a joint Unesco/Bank sector mission which visited the coun-
try in April/May 1974. A Unesco preparation/planning mission was invited to
Congo in May 1975 to identify and prepare a second education project for Bank
financing. A Bank mission visited Congo in September/October 1975 to complete
preparation.  The project was appraised in March 1976 by a Bank mission com-
prising Ms. J. Edstrom (economist), Messrs. W. Cooper (technical educator),
B. Hubert (architect) and R. Romain (general educator), all Bank staff, and
Mr. F. Schmithusen (forestry training specialist), FAO consultant.
1.02      The proposed project would provide US$8.0 million to assist in:
(a) supporting qualitative improvements at the elementary level through
expansion of primary teacher training and preparation and production of
school texts; (b) increasing the supply of technicians through establish-
ment of a technical teacher training program and a forest technician school;
and (c) reinforcing the Government's educational planning capability.
1.03      The first Bank Group education project, Credit 237-COB (signed
in March 1971, with an anticipated closing date of June 1977) provided US$3.5
million to assist the Governnent in improving the quality of teaching in
both primary and secondary education and the employment orientation of secon-
dary level education. It included provision for expansion of science teaching
in secondary schools and for the establishment of a primary teacher training
college, a rural vocational training center and a technician training insti-
tute. Most project schools are still under construction but are expected to be
completed by March 1977. The credit closing date is expected to be June 30,
1977, nine months later than originally forecast, due mainly to delays in
design work and award of contracts, frequent shortage of building materials
and the need to cancel and re-award some of the civil works contracts because
of poor performance of some contractors. The project has been well adminis-
tered nonetheless, and institutional arrangements are proceeding satisfac-
torily.  The Governnent has requested IDA to provide supplementary funds
(US$0.5 million) for this project to cover part of the shortfall in project
financing caused by dollar devaluation.
II. THE SETTING
A.   Development Setting and Prospects
2.01      The People's Republic of Congo, with an area of some 343,000 km 2
has a population of about 1.3 million (1974 est.), growing at an annual rate
of about 2.1 percent. The population is distributed unevenly, with a con-
centration in the more developed south. Almost 40 percent of the population
lives in urban areas, giving Congo one of the highest urbanization rates in
Africa.



- 2 -
2.02      Until recently, Congo's development potential was based on its
small but relatively literate population (about 50 percent of the total),
its extensive forests which cover 60 percent of the country, and its loca-
tion and river/rail network from which it derives its importance as a sup-
plier of regional transportation services for the neighboring landlocked
central African countries. During the period 1967-70, overall economic
growth was about 8.1 percent per year in current prices and 4 percent in
real terms. The discovery of off-shore oil reserves and their exploita-
tion beginning in 1972 strengthened the resource base, contributing to higher
real growth in 1973 and 1974 (Annex 2). GNP per capita is projected to have
increased almost 70 percent in current prices between 1970 and 1974, from
US$300 to US$500. It is likely that there was no real growth of GNP in 1975
since oil production was 25 percent below 1974 output because of geological
difficulties.
2.03      Of the total labor force of about 540,000, only 13 percent, or
70,000 persons (excluding domestic servants), are employed in the modern
sector (Annex 3) and an estimated 18,000-22,000 are unemployed. The Govern-
ment, excluding employees of parastatal enterprises, accounts for about 37
percent of jobs in the modern, or formal, sector. This sector still relies
heavily on expatriate manpower at the higher levels; 60 percent of all high-
level managers and 75 percent of all engineers are non-Africans, despite
their small share (3-4 percent) of the formal sector labor force. Given
the lack of demographic data, it is difficult to classify by occupation or
activity the more than 80 percent of the labor force employed in the tradi-
tional, or informal, sector. But with such a large proportion of the popu-
lation residing in urban areas, it is likely that relatively fewer Congolese
are employed in primary sector activities than in other African countries,
while more are on the fringe of the formal sector, employed in small-scale
manufacturing, service and commercial activities.
2.04      Future growth of employment in the formal sector is expected to
follow the Government's investment priorities, which include the transport,
forestry and agriculture sectors. The relaxation of the transportation con-
straint through realignment of the railway will stimulate employment not
only in transport but also in timber production and processing and in ser-
vice industries related to these two sectors. Employment in modern agri-
culture is also expected to grow, but the absolute level of employment will
remain low due to the small share of the sector in the economy. The Govern-
ment, transportation, food and beverage industries and commerce are expected
to remain the largest employers in the formal sector.
B.   The Education System
2.05      The Congolese system of general education follows the French pat-
tern, consisting of six years of primary school, a secondary program divided
into a four-year lower cycle and a three-year upper cycle, and a tertiary
level of university study. Responsibility for education and training is
shared between the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (Ministere



- 3 -
de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire - MEPS) and the Ministry of Higher
Education (Ministère de l'Enseignement Supérieur charge de la Culture et
des Arts - MESCA). The latter Ministry's jurisdiction includes all vocational
schools, such as those for primary teacher, health and agricultural training,
as well as the University of Brazzaville. The National Institute for Research
and Pedagogical Action (INRAP) is responsible for developing and testing
reformed curricula, teaching methods and instructional materials at the
primary and secondary levels.
2.06      As in many African countries, enrollments at all levels have grown
rapidly, responding both to popular demand and to the Government's desire
to increase the supply of trained manpower. From 1968 to 1973, enrollment
growth in general secondary and technical education averaged 25 and 15 per-
cent p.a. respectively, while university enrollments increased by 18 per-
cent per year. Primary enrollments have grown more slowly, at 6 percent
per year. Available data show that the Congo, with its nearly 100 percent
adjusted enrollment rate for the primary school population, most closely
approaches universal primary education of any West African country. How-
ever, unreliable census figures and large numbers of over-aged students in
primary school make it impossible to be sure of the proportion of the pri-
mary age group enrolled.
2.07      Despite the large number of children in school, the Congolese edu-
cation system faces a number of problems. These include:
(a)  education and training programs that are poorly adapted
to the country's employment needs;
(b)  poor learning conditions due to inadequate facilities
and lack of books and trained teachers, especially in
primary education, reflected in low student perform-
ance and high repeater rates;
(c) weaknesses in education planning and administration.
External Efficiency of Education: Employment Requirements and Output
from the Education System
2.08      On the basis of investment priorities and past trends in employ-
ment growth and distribution (para. 2.04), roughly 57,000 new jobs are ex-
pected to be created in the formal sector during the decade 1973-1983 (Annex
4). In addition, about 7,000 jobs will become available to school leavers
through labor force attrition and replacement of some expatriate personnel.
Hence, there will be about 64,000 jobs to be filled by school leavers over
the ten-year period, or 6,400 per year. The table which follows compares
projected job opportunities with school leavers (primary school and above)
expected to enter the labor market.



-4-
Average Annual Manpower Requirements and Supply, 1973-1983
Formal Sector            Output
Jobs Available        from Education   Output/
to New Graduates      System to Labor    Jobs
& School Leavers            Market          (%)
High-Level Managers                      -
Engineers and Equivalent                130                    80            60
Technicians                             260                   150            60
Middle-Level Administrators             160                   620           390
Office Workers                          900                 5,090           570
Skilled Workers                        650                    400            60
Semiskilled Workers                  2,000                  2,750           140
Unskilled Workers                    1,410                  2,800           200
Teachers                               840                    790            95
TOTAL                           6,350                 12,680           200
2.09      These estimates are only indicative, but they show that there
are likely to be shortages of engineers, technicians, and skilled workers.
Within the teacher category, technical teachers will be in extremely short
supply; the output of primary teachers, on the other hand, is expected to
be sufficient to begin replacing untrained teachers (Annexes 5 and 6). The
principal issue for manpower planning concerns the output of secondary school
leavers and university dropouts who have traditionally become middle-level
administrators and office workers employed largely in the public sector.
Because of recent expansion of general secondary education, a large number
of secondary school leavers will have difficulty obtaining employment in
the public sector, and will be obliged to find jobs elsewhere, mainly in
the informal sector.  At the same time, there will be skill shortages at
the middle-level administrator and office worker levels since the general
secondary school leavers and university dropouts aspiring to fill these
jobs will be poorly equipped for some of the more technical tasks. The
Government's future education/training policies will therefore need to
focus on stronger technical and commercial programs adapted to both formal
and informal sector employment needs.
2.10      The projected shortage of technically trained persons is due both
to the small number of students enrolled in technical institutions and to the
poor quality of training at many technical schools. Many of the graduates
have received a training unrelated to industry's needs or have been trained
under such poor conditions that their skills are weak. Most technical train-
ing institutions suffer from serious overcrowding, chronic shortages of equip-
ment and materials, insufficient numbers of trained Congolese teachers and
heavy emphasis on theoretical training. The Bank Group's first education
project is helping to improve the technical/vocational training system
(para. 1.03). However, a stronger planning mechanism is required within



both ministries of education to plan enrollment growth in relation to an-
ticipated manpower requirements, to develop more job-related training pro-
grams, to strengthen liaison with industry and to coordinate between the
two ministries.
2.11      There are several specific areas of manpower shortage that are not
revealed in the above aggregates for which training is required. For example,
the civil service and state enterprises have insufficient numbers of quali-
fied managers. A training component of an ongoing ILO project to assist
state enterprises should help to ease this problem since it provides on-the-
job training adapted to the particular needs of each enterprise. Similarly,
the training proposed under a third highway project and provided under the
second railway project financed under Bank Loan 1228-COB will upgrade high-
way maintenance, railway and river transport personnel, thereby contributing
to increased productivity in the transport sector. Forest exploitation,
another important but still largely untapped sector of the economy, has
suffered from continuous shortages of forest technicians. This personnel
shortage has exacerbated the tendency toward over-exploitation of the easily
accessible forests in the south, while the northern forests remain untouched.
For efficient management of its timber resources, the Governnent will need to
reinforce its forest services and enterprises with greater numbers of suitably
trained staff.
Internal Efficiency and Equal Access to Educational Opportunities
2.12      Internal efficiency and quality.  Rapid expansion of enrollments
has had a deleterious effect on learning conditions and the internal effi-
ciency of the education system. Nowhere is this more evident than in pri-
mary education, where the pupil/teacher ratio is 63:1 and the proportion
of trained teachers is only 57 percent of total staff. Moreover, both of
these rates are deteriorating. One result of the poor learning conditions
in primary schools is a high repeater rate which in 1973/74 varied from
27 to 42 percent of enrollments in the different grades. Due to the large
numbers of repeaters, it requires more than 11 student-years on average to
produce one child who has completed the six primary school grades (Annex 7).
Hence, the cost per student-year in primary education was US$48 in 1973,
relatively low compared with the cost in other French-speaking West African
countries, 1/ but the cost per graduate was about US$530.
2.13      Pupil/teacher ratios remain high through lower secondary school
(at 55:1 in 1974). Overcrowded classrooms, scarcity of books and other
educational support materials, and inadequate provision and utilization of
practical work facilities, which characterize every level of the system,
all act to depress student performance. More and better trained teachers
and inereased provision of equipment and materials would help to improve
student performance. However, the Governnent already devotes 24 percent of
the current budget to education and cannot afford to permit recurrent educa-
tion expenditure to grow as rapidly as in the past (11.7 percent in real
1/   US$76 in Ivory Coast (1970) and Gabon (1972/73).



terms, 1964-1973, versus 6.3 percent for the Government's total current
budget). Hence, increasing the efficiency of the system will require a
careful assessment of what quality-improving measures can most improve
progression rates and student performance at the lowest cost.
2.14      Access to Educational Opportunities.  All education in Congo is
public and in principle compulsory up to 16 years of age. With such a high
proportion of the primary school-age population in school (para. 2.06), edu-
cational opportunity is more equitable in Congo than in many other African
countries. While local communities are responsible for provision of primary
school buildings, and parents must purchase most books and pay a small ini-
tial enrollment fee, education is otherwise free of cost to the individual.
Moreover, to ensure that no person misses the opportunity of furthering his
education beyond the primary level because of poverty, scholarships are
awarded to many of those who gain places in secondary schools and to all in
universities, teacher training institutions and other professional schools
to meet living, transport and education expenses. Equal opportunity ex-
tends in large measure to both sexes, at least at the lower levels: girls
constitute 46 percent of primary school enrollments and 39 percent of en-
rollments in lower secondary school.
2.15      There are, however, certain imbalances which the Governnent wishes
to correct. One of these is geographical disparity in the quality of edu-
cational opportunity, with the northern part of the country as deprived
educationally as it is undeveloped economically. There is only one upper
secondary school in the north, and lower level schools suffer from even
more acute shortages of teachers, books and supplies than do schools in
the south. Another imbalance in educational provision is the small pro-
portion of the budget allocated for books and materials (Annexes 8 and 9).
Only 2 percent of budgeted expenditure per primary student is allocated for
instructional materials, rising to between 6 and 24 percent at other levels.
Schoolbooks are scarce; since most are imported and expensive (the first
grade reader costs US$3.50, for example, and the seventh grade book-list
totals US$32), they are beyond the financial reach of the majority of
parents.  The Government is therefore examining ways of supplying cheaper
instructional materials to students through local book production.
The Government's Education Plans
2.16      The latest Governnent policy statement on education was made in
1970, when the Party Colloquium set forth broad recommendations, summarized
in the term "Ecole du Peuple," for making the education system more egali-
tarian and better aligned with Congo's economic and employment requirements.
The Colloquium proposed a loosely-defined four-cycle structure corresponding
roughly to primary, lower and upper secondary and university education. The
two lower levels would aim at general culture and understanding of the
environnent, with concentration on language, science, mathematics and
prevocational subjects. Upper secondary education would train people for
specific lower and middle level skill professions, and the post-secondary
level, access to which would be gained only after a period of work, would



-7-
deepen students' theoretical understanding to allow them to engage in
research or professional work.  The reform's objectives are reasonable but
require more precise elaboration. Since many of the proposals, such as the
pre-university work program, require political decisions, several years of
close interaction between policy makers and educators will be needed to move
toward a reformed system.
2.17      Pending the preparation of longer term development plans and educa-
tional reforms, the planning unit of the Ministry of Primary and Secondary
Education (MEPS) has prepared a three-year education development program,
1975-77. The Ministry's goals for expansion of and qualitative improvements
in the existing system may be over-ambitious if viewed in a short-term con-
text, but they provide a broad policy orientation upon which detailed pro-
gramming and planning can be done. The program's targets include:
(a)  for primary education:  reduction of the number of repeaters
and under/over-aged children; improvement of the teacher/
pupil ratio as well as the average qualifications of teachers,
in part through in-service training programs; revision of
curricula; and strengthened supervision of schools through a
larger and better trained primary inspectorate;
(b)  for secondary education:  at the lower secondary level, a modest
increase in the intake into Grade 7; a more practically-oriented
curriculum through introduction of productive work activities;
expansion of boarding capacity; progressive Africanization and
improved qualifications of teachers; and, for upper secondary
education, decentralization of school facilities and better
articulation of the curriculum with post-secondary education or,
for those not continuing their education, with the employment
world; and
(c)  for adult education:  elimination of illiteracy largely through
increased use of volunteers as teachers and of radio, the press
and cinema to provide support and follow-up.
2.18      The Governnent does not have a comparable program for vocational
and higher education. Officials of the Ministry of Higher Education (MESCA)
have identified the need to develop long-range comprehensive planning of
vocational education and training (para. 2.10), but the Ministry was recently
reorganized and has only begun to staff a planning unit. Furthermore, even if
the planning units of the two education ministries were fully staffed and
experienced, there would still be need for close coordination of the units to
plan expansion of enrollments, ensure complementarity of curricula and objec-
tives, and study ways of controlling education expenditures.



-8-
C.   The Role of the Project
2.20      The proposed project would support qualitative improvements in
learning opportunities at the elementary level, through:
(a)  expansion and improvement of primary teacher training to
decrease the pupil/teacher ratio and the proportion of
untrained teachers and to provide pedagogical support to
primary schools in the northern part of the country (paras
2.12, 2.15); and
(b)  local preparation and production of textbooks and other edu-
cational materials to increase their suitability and availabil-
ity and reduce their cost and, in the process, to strengthen
the capabilities of the country's pedagogical research institute
to develop and test reformed curricula and instructional ma-
terials (paras 2.05, 2.15).
Second, the project would assist the Government in adapting the system more to
employment needs by establishing programs to train technical secondary teach-
ers (para. 2.09) and middle-level forest technicians (para 2.11), thereby
increasing the supply of technicians, the level where manpower shortages are
projected to be most acute. Third, the project would help to reinforce the
Government's ability to plan future development of the education system
(para. 2.18).
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.   Summary
3.01      The proposed project would be implemented during the period 1977-
81 and would comprise:
(a) construction or conversion of buildings, furniture and/or
equipment for:
(i)  a primary teachers college;
(ii) an educational publications unit;
(iii) a technical teacher training program;
(iv) a forestry school; and
(v)  the planning  Âits of the two education
ministries;



- 9 -
(b)  the provislon of 33 man-years of technical assistance
and 47 man-years of fellowships for (a) above, plus
architectural consultant services for preparation of
a possible future project; and
(c) staffing, equipment and operating expenditures for
project administration.
B.   The Project Components
Primary Teachers College
3.02      The project would provide for construction, furnishing and equipping
of teaching and boarding accommodation for a 320-place primary teachers college
at Owando (formerly Fort Rousset), a centrally located regional capital in
northern Congo. Three man-years of specialist services would be provided to
assist the college director in administering the program and organizing prac-
tice teaching. The college would modify the existing teacher training program
by increasing the proportion of time in the curriculum for manual activities
and practice teaching, and by establishing close and sustained liaison with
the pedagogical research institute (INRAP) and with selected primary schools
in the region to test new teaching programs. The college's annual output of
65 primary teachers and 105 assistant primary teachers, in conjunction with
the output of other pre-service and in-service training programs, would raise
the proportion of professionally trained primary teachers from 57 percent of
the teaching force in 1975 to about 80 percent in 1985. Progress toward
achievement of this goal would be reviewed periodically in the course of
Bank supervision missions.
Educational Publications Unit
3.03      The project would assist in the establishment of an Educational
Publications Unit at the National Institute for Pedagogical Research and
Action (INRAP) by financing (i) construction, furnishing and equipping of a
building for textbook design, preparation and storage adjacent to the INRAP
building; (ii) a three-year stock of printing and photographic supplies;
(iii) vehicles for transport of books and materials; (iv) 5 man-years of tech-
nical assistance in educational publishing; and (v) 15 man-years of fellow-
ships for training local staff to prepare and produce teaching materials. The
Publications Unit would prepare reading materials mainly for the first nine
grades of the school system as well as for teachers. It would have the books
printed by the National Printing Office, which the Publications Unit would
provide with paper and other supplies. To ensure that the Publications Unit
and the National Printing Office are adequately staffed, equipped and or-
ganized to prepare and print books, assurances were obtained from the Gov-
ernment at negotiations that it will make budgetary provision to:
(a) create the personnel positions in INRAP needed to staff
the Publications Unit; and



- 10 -
(b) strengthen as required the staff of the National
Printing Office and renew and maintain its book print-
ing equipment, so as to ensure that it makes available the
necessary staff time and services to produce on schedule
the textbooks and materials needed by INRAP.
3.04      The books produced by INRAP would be priced to encourage book
distribution to as large a student population as possible (para. 2.15) while
ensuring that INRAP's income from book sales and Government subventions
would be sufficient to fund INRAP's publications activities on a continuous
basis. Assurances were obtained from the Government that by January 1,
1979, it will adopt a textbook pricing and subsidization policy, to be
reviewed annually, that will achieve these goals. Preliminary estimates
indicate that costs can be covered by direct book charges and Government
subsidies that would only increase at rates that can easily be absorbed by
the education budget.
3.05      INRAP would have an agreement with the Public Bookstore Organiza-
tion (Office National des Librairies Populaires) for book distribution giv-
ing the Bookstore responsibility to sell the books produced by INRAP. This
agreement would include, inter alia, (a) the methods and periods of reim-
bursement to INRAP by the Bookstore, including formulas for covering the
Bookstore's costs; and (b) assurances that prices the Bookstore charges for
books it sells on INRAP's behalf will be determined initially in agreement
with INRAP and, after January 1, 1979, in accordance with the Government's
pricing policy for books. A condition of disbursement on the construction
of the building for the Publications Unit would be the conclusion of these
arrangements, to be acceptable to the Bank.
Technical Teacher Training
3.06      To alleviate existing and projected shortages of technical teachers
at the secondary level (Annex 7), the proposed project would finance the es-
tablishment of a department of technical teacher training at the Higher Insti-
tute of Education Sciences (Institut Superieur des Sciences de l'Education -
INSSED), the secondary teacher training institute in Brazzaville. The project
would finance construction, furnishing and equipping of school buildings and
a dormitory to accommodate 120 students; 7 man-years of technical assistance
to help design and implement the program; and 9 man-years of fellowships.
The new department would produce about 50 industrial and commercial teachers
per year for the lower secondary technical level, which would allow for an
increase in the proportion of Congolese technical teachers from 50 percent
of the teaching force in 1975 to about 70 percent in 1985. The courses would
be designed to permit the program to adjust its output to meet changes in
needs at fairly short notice. Legislation is currently being prepared to



- il -
create a department within the secondary teacher training institute to under-
take the training program. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Government that it will enact'this legislation by June 30, 1977.
Forestry School
3.07      The project would finance construction and conversion of facilities,
furniture, equipment, 12 man-years of technical assistance and 9 man-years of
fellowships to establish a forestry school under the jurisdiction of the
MESCA. The school would produce 20-25 forest technicians per year speciali-
zing in forest administration or forest industries. Graduates in administra-
tion would work primarily as senior forest rangers in the Department of Waters
and Forests and related agencies within the Ministry of the Rural Economy
(Ministère de l'Economie Rurale - MER) for reforestation and maintenance of
existing plantations, management of the natural forests and planned use of the
valuable timber resources in northern Congo. Those graduating as forest
industries technicians would work in logging and in wood transport, processing
and technology (para. 2.11). The school's targeted output is based on the
Government's forest exploitation goals, taking account of the public sector's
capacity to absorb new forest technicians. Integration of technicians into
logging and processing enterprises would be facilitated by 1974 forest legis-
lation which includes provisions obliging concessionaires to hire national
personnel and report semi-annually to the MER on their progress and promotion
prospects.
3.08      Forestry students would share a common first-year course with agri-
culture students at the agricultural secondary school in Brazzaville, followed
by two years of forestry training at Mossendjo, the site of an existing fores-
try demonstration/production center. The agriculture school has sufficient
physical capacity to accommodate the first-year forestry students. The project
would provide academic and boarding facilities at Mossendjo and a field sta-
tion at Ouesso to permit study in the northern region of the country. Field
study in the southern region would be provided at a forest plantation research
station in Loudima.
3.09      The location of the school in the forest will provide an excellent
teaching environment for forestry studies, but special efforts to ensure pro-
gram quality, retain staff, and maintain communications with MER and the for-
est industry will be required to overcome the disadvantages of its remote-
ness. The legislation and statutes governing the school's operations would
therefore provide for establishment of a school consultative committee com-
posed of, inter alios, representatives of MER, MESCA, logging companies and
the wood industry, to advise on curricula, field study, student placement
and follow-up of graduates. Other measures to ensure the quality and rele-
vance of the programs would include a curriculum and diploma which lead to
direct employment in the forest administration or forest industries, and
salary and career incentives for teaching staff. To undertake these mea-
sures, assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations that by
June 30, 1977, it will:



- 12 -
(i)  enact legislation required for establishment of the
forestry school;
(ii)  adopt statutes governing the operation of the school
and establish curricula and a staffing plan, all to
be acceptable to the Bank; and
(iii)  formulate, for review with the Bank, proposals for
staff incentives.
Educational Planning
3.10      The project would provide:  (i) 5-1/2 man-years of technical assis-
tance for five specialists in (a) educational planning, (b) educational
finance and manpower planning, (c) technical/vocational training, (d) agricul-
tural education and training, and (e) women's training programs; (ii) 14
man-years of fellowships for staff training in educational planning; and
(iii) office equipment and supplies and vehicles for staff field work.
The specialists would be attached to the planning units of MEPS and MESCA
and, within their areas of specialization, would assist both planning units in
preparing plans, programs and projects for local or external financing (para.
2.18). An interministerial planning committee would coordinate educational
planning efforts and provide overall direction of the specialists' work. This
committee would consist of the two ministers and directors of the Ministry of
Planning and relevant departments and agencies, and would convene periodically
as needed throughout the year. Assurances were obtained from the Government at
negotiations that, by June 30, 1977, it will establish this committee with the
above-mentioned membership and responsibilities.
3.11      The two ministries would prepare, by late 1978, (i) a long-range
outline plan for education/training, and (ii) within this outline, a 3-5
year development program for each ministry together with related investment
projects. Attention would be given to agricultural programs, to be designed
in conjunction with agriculture sector planning, and training for informal
sector employment (paras. 2.04, 2.09). Training of women would also receive
attention: the high proportion of girls in the education system (para. 2.14)
necessitates the development of courses in nutrition, health and family care
at lower levels of general education and of vocational programs at the sec-
ondary level. At negoti tions, assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that, by January 1, 1979, it will exchange views with the Bank on the
outline plan and the 3-5 year program in order to, inter alia, jointly
select investment proposals to be prepared for consideration under a pos-
sible future project. The project described in this report would also
finance architectural consultant services and up to 6 man-months of short-
term educational specialist services to undertake the preparation of these
investment projects.



- 13 -
C. Project Cost
3.12      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$11.4 million,
excluding taxes and customs duties. The detailed breakdown of estimated
project costs is given in Annex 10 and summarized as follows:
Estimated Cost by Proiect Institution
% of
Total
CFAF (million)               US$ (million)            Base
Local  Foreign  Total /a  Local  Foreign  Total /a  Cost
Primary Teachers
College              260.7    414.0    674.7    1.2        1.8       3.0       35.0
Educational
Publications
Unit                  54.9    224.3    279.2    0.2        1.0       1.2       14.5
Technical
Teacher
Training             119.7    281.9    401.6    0.5        1.3       1.8       20.9
Forestry
School                79.7    258.8    338.5    0.4        1.1       1.5       17.5
Educational
Planning              32.2    137.2    169.4    0.1        0.6       0.7        8.8
Project
Administration        18.8      43.8      62.6    0.1      0.2       0.3        3.3
Base Cost Estimate   566.0  1,360.0  1,926.0    2.5          6.0       8.5      100.0
Physical
Contingencies         42.4      82.2    124.6    0.2       0.4       0.6        6.4
Price Escalation       161.4    349.3    510.7    0.7         1.6      2.3       26.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST   769.8  1,791.5  2,561.3    3.4           8.0     11.4



- 14 -
3.13      Construction costs have been estimated as of July, 1976, on the
basis of contracts for civil works similar to those in the project, includ-
ing first project contracts adjusted for price escalation. Agreed space
standards for facilities would be within the range of other comparable
facilities financed by the Bank.  The estimated average unit cost of school
building construction per square meter of gross area is US$280. This unit
cost is high due to the location of the majority of civil works in more
remote areas of the country where construction costs average at least 80
percent higher than in the capital of Brazzaville. Based on personnel re-
cruitment-experiences of UNDP and bilateral agencies in Congo, the estimated
average cost of technical assistance per man-year is US$66,000 (of which
US$40,000 is estimated to be for salaries). The distribution of costs by
category of expenditure is shown below:
US$ million              % of Total
Local  Foreign  Total          Base Cost
Civil works                          1.6       2.0    3.6              42.4
Furniture                            0.1       0.2    0.3               3.4
Equipment                            0.2       1.4    1.6              18.8
Technical Assistance and
Fellowships                        0.5       2.1    2.6              30.4
Architectural Services               0.0       0.1    0.1               1.7
Project Administration               0.1       0.2    0.3               3.3
Base Cost Estimate                   2.5       6.0    8.5             100.0
Physical Contingencies               0.2       0.4    0.6
Price Escalation                     0.7       1.6    2.3
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   3.4       8.0   11.4
3.14      Contingencies.  Allowances included in the project cost for physical
contingencies and price escalation consist of (a) 10 percent of estimated costs
of civil works, architectural services, furniture and equipment, and (b) an
average of 27 percent for local and foreign price escalation (Annex 11).
3.15      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component would be
approximately US$8.0 million equivalent, representing 70 percent of the total
project cost of US$11.4 million, net of taxes. This has been estimated as
follows: (i) civil works, 55 percent; (ii) furniture, 70 percent; (iii)
equipment, 90 percent; (iv) architectural services, technical assistance
and fellowships, 80 percent; and (v) project administration, 70 percent.
Local currency expenditures are estimated at about US$3.4 million (CFAF 770
million), or 30 percent of the total project cost.
3.16      Financial Plan.  The proposed Bank Loan of US$8.0 million would
finance the estimated foreign exchange component. The Government would
finance the balance of the project cost. The distribution of financing by
category is shown in Annex 12.



- 15 -
3.17      Project Recurrent Costs.  Using constant prices for both project
recurrent costs and the Government current budget, the recurrent expenditures
of project institutions would be about CFAF 300 million (US$1.3 million) in
1983, the second year in which all project schools would be fully operational
and the first in which it is expected that 50 percent or more of the teach-
ing staff would be Congolese. This is expected to constitute about 2 per-
cent of the Government's recurrent education budget in that year, assuming
real growth of recurrent education expenditure is held at about 6.5 percent
p.a., or at roughly the same rate as projected growth of the total recurrent
budget. Therefore, the Government should not have difficulty financing the
expenditure incurred by the project institutions. The annual increase in the
budget of the Ministry of the Rural Economy as a result of hiring graduates
of the forestry school would amount to about CFAF 40 million (US$176,000),
representing less than one percent of projected forest tax revenues. Em-
ployment of graduates of the primary teacher training program is expected
to inerease the cost to the Government per pupil-year in primary education
due to larger salaries paid to teachers because of their higher average
qualifications. Increased costs per pupil-year should, however, be offset by
lower costs per graduate due to a reduction in the number of repeaters and
dropouts and, hence, a reduction in the number of pupil-years required per
graduate.
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      Projeet Preparation and Execution.  Architectural design work
is well advanced and preliminary drawings for all project institutions will be
sent to the Bank shortly for review. Construction of all project institutions
is scheduled for completion within about two years of Loan signature, and
project implementation would be completed in approximately five years.
4.02      Administration.  The project unit established under Credit 237-COB,
responsible to the two education ministries, would administer the proposed
second project. The unit is headed by a senior official of the MESCA who
serves as part-time director. Full-time project unit staff would include
a coordinator, an educational adviser, an architect, an engineer during
the construction period, and support staff. The educational adviser and
architect arc now and will continue to be financed by FAC. The second project
would finance the salary of the project engineer plus office equipment and
supplies, one vehicle, and operating expenditures for site supervision.
All other costs would be borne by the Government. The project unit would
continue to exercise the responsibilities described in the 237-COB Credit
Agreement and would have additional architectural responsibilities as spelled
out in para. 4.03. The Government has confirmed the reappointment of the
first project director, coordinator, educational adviser and architect for
administration of the second project and has found a temporary candidate for
the new post of engineer. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
the Government that it will at all times staff the posts of director, coor-
dinator, educational adviser, architect and engineer by persons whose quali-
fications and experience are acceptable to the Bank.



- 16 -
4.03      Architectural Services.  The projec- tar-hitcrt *.eld h-'ve pri-
mary responsibility for the design, planning and supervision of the con-
struction of all project institutions. He would be assisted during the
construction period by the project engineer. The Directorate of Construction,
Town Planning and Housing (Direction de la Construction, de l'Urbanisme et
de l'Habitat - DCUH) has agreed to provide other support services, such as
drafting and establishing bills of quantity. The project would finance
architectural consultant services for preparation of components of a pos-
sible third education project (para. 3.11).
4.04      Technical Assistance and Fellowships.  The project provides
33 man-years of technical assistance and 47 man-years of fellowships
(Annex 13) at a total cost of about US$3.1 million. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from the Government that:
(a)  the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment of all specialists financed under the
project will be acceptable to the Bank;
(b)  counterparts, selected after consultation with the
Bank, will be promptly assigned to these specialists;
(c)  the personnel trained on fellowships will be enrolled in
training programs acceptable to the Bank, and will be re-
quired to serve a minimum of two years in the positions for
which they are trained; and
(d)  in the event that qualified local personnel are not
available to fill teaching or administrative positions at
project institutions, the Government will request quali-
fied personnel from bilateral or other multilateral
sources.
The Government of France has already expressed its willingness to provide
personnel for Bank project institutions if requested by the Government.
4.05      Sites.  All sites have been identified.  During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that it will complete all
legal measures for acquiring those sites which are not already government
property by January 1, 1977, sufficiently in advance of the projected start
of construction.
4.06      Procurement.  Contracts for building works (US$5.1 million), fur-
niture (US$0.4 million) and equipment (US$2.2 million) would be awarded
following international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines. The building works are within the capacity of Congo's construc-
tion industry; contractors would, however, be prequalified. Based on experi-
ence under the first project and on the expected size of the contracts, it is
anticipated that civil works contracts will be won by local firms. To the
extent practicable, contracts for furniture and equipment (US$2.6 million)



- 17 -
would be let in packages of at least US$50,000. Local manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the
c.i.f. price of competing imports or the total applicable customs duties and
import taxes, whichever is lower. Small items of furniture and equipment
which cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$50,000 would be procured on
the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
4.07      Disbursements.  The funds from the Loan Account would be disbursed
as follows:
(a)  100 percent of the foreign cost of equipment and materials
or 90 percent if procured locally, US$1.6 million;
(b)  70 percent of expenditures for furniture, US$0.2 million;
(c)  80 percent of expenditurès for architectural services,
technical assistance and fellowships, US$2.2 million;
(d)  70 percent of expenditures for project administration,
US$0.2 million; and
(e)  55 percent of expenditures for civil works, US$2.3 million.
Disbursements for items (a), (b), (c) and (e) would be on a fully docu-
mented basis. Disbursements for project administration would be against a
certificate of expenditure, the documentation for which is not submitted for
review but is retained by the Borrower and available for inspection by the
Bank during the course of project supervision missions. US$1.5 million of
the proposed Loan would be unallocated. Any funds remaining undisbursed at
the completion of the project would be cancelled. Estimated schedules of
disbursements and implementation are shown in Annexes 14-16.
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)  by January 1, 1977, it will acquire all sites (para. 4.05);
(b)  by June 30, 1977, it will (i) enact the legislation required
for establishment of a forestry school (para. 3.09) and a
technical teacher training department within INSSED (para.
3.06), (ii) adopt or establish for the forestry school
acceptable operational statutes, curricula and a staffing
plan (para. 3.09), (iii) formulate, for review with the Bank,
proposals for inceiitives to staff recruitment and retention
for the forestry school (para. 3.09), and (iv) establish an
interministerial coramittee for educational planning (para.
3 10);



- 18 -
(c) by January 1, 1979, it will (i) adopt a satisfactory textbook
pricing and subsidization policy (para. 3.04), and (i.) exchange
views with the Bank on the outline plan, programs and investment
projects (paras. 3.11, 4.03);
(d)  it will make budgetary provision to adequately staff and maintain
the equipment of the INRAP Publications Unit and the National
Printing Office, so as to ensure that the latter makes available
the necessary staff time and services for production of INRAP
materials (para. 3.04);
(e) it will continue to staff the project unit posts of director,
coordinator, educational adviser, architect and engineer by
persons whose qualifications and experience are acceptable
to the Bank (para. 4.02);
(f)  the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
of project-financed specialists will be acceptable to the Bank, and
counterparts assigned to these specialists will be selected after
consultation with the Bank (para. 4.04);
(g) the personnel trained on fellowships will be enrolled in training
programs acceptable to the Bank, and will be required to serve a
minimum of two years in the positions for which they are trained
(par. 4.04); and
(h) it will request qualified personnel from bilateral or multilateral
sources to staff project institutions if local personnel are not
available (para. 4.04).
5.02      A conditon of disbursement of the Loan funds related to construc-
tion of the building for the Educational Publications Unit would be the
conclusion of arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, between INRAP and the
Public Bookstore Organization concerning the distribution and sale of books
to be produced by INRAP (para. 3.05).
5.03      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project con-
stitutes a suitable basis for the proposed Bank loan of US$8.0 million for
a period of 20 years, including a grace period of 4-1/2 years.



COMPARATIVE  EDUCAIXUN    INCICATORS                                                                                           APINF x    1
c NOVEMbEIi 10, 1976
------------------------------ ---------- ------- -   --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GNP    8  X  GNP            S%    TOIALIX           OF  PUBLIC                     8             1                tPRI.  9AV.PRI.                                                 :SEC
9            rCAPIT&S  DEVOTEDIPUBLIC    1  EDUCATION                                 :LITER-   sPRI.   ICOMPLE-   ISTU-   t5CH.TEACHSPRU6RFS-:  SFC.  -.510-
9            :    AI    t  Tn  EDU.z    EXP.  s  RECURREN17                            Acy           sENROLLITION                     MFNI%!SALAkY    IN-TIN  WaTF   'ENNULL
9            :MARKETS  (PUBLICIDEVOIEDIEXP  aLLOCATED:                                         RATE   :RATIO    tRATE  FURtPFR                     iRFL411UK    :F1lM  PPI.:RATI(    'Ptw                       :ENRùLL:
TOS            :(Z  OF        s  4ET        IPRI.SCM.tTtACHt  TO    GNP/  1 1 1 SFC
POP.  IPRIC[Si  EXP.                    1    TO        1                                                                                                                              NEt    :TFACM-  WATIO:
YRt(OOU)             (USSIS  ONLY)    s              EDU.  aPRI.  SEC.  Hl,:ADULTS).-  (X)    -CYCLEM                                   -ER            CAPIà                                                           (X)
a                         1                t               1                                                                        -
i   (Il             2)  1    (3 1          s     (4)    a             (S)             s  (6)             (7 1             8         1   (q)                                             Il 12           1 3 )  '(14)
------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------
ADVANCED
;;i;;;                   73        7 .9    311110              11.5          9,9          47G    299    209              qq           98              93             ?15             2.0              49             s 1           I 9           8 . 41(l
CANADA                     72    22. 1 D  %, Il sOn             7.7         1q.4            l(f      la        1 9        98            99             qB             è4              2.0              99              m 2           1 7          Y . 1, 0
GERMANY  F . RE P, 72    61.0t)  5, 32 Il D                     4 . 2       III ..        . . .    74**  26              99           9 1             qq              5 i            .                99              9 1          2 2         17.(Ocy
JAPAN                     71  1 0 R . itl  l, 6 3 fl n          il . 3      211.7          39        la        12         99           99D             99C            2;C            2.0              99C            940           Il (J c
NETHERLANDS                72    1 S.40, 4,3311D                8,9         19.1r          32        4%        19         99           q Il            95             2q              3 . 0            97              7 5          2Q          1 1 .0u
NEw  ZEALAND               7       2.9    j.bR)               11.2        ...            39        ?4       29          99           99              99             26              ...              qq              t. 7         19          2 4 .(,Il
NORWAY                    7?        3.qD  4,66oD                7, a        19.2           Sa        23        13         qq           qq              qB             20              1.9              99              7b           14          1 1 . Ou
SWEDEN                    73        8.1    s . 9 1 -)           8.9         16.0           36        14       13          99           qq              99              17             ...              9(             85            lu          3 u . o 0
U.K.                      72    SS . o r)  3. 06 -) D           6.i         i2.7           26        39       22          98           99              ...            26              2.0              ...             63           17          1 1 .00
U.S.A.                    72  210.4r)  6,2I1110                 b.o         IS.4            ...    73**  27               qq           99              99             2su             2.0              ...             93           lqu         2 y . 0
EURUPE
71       8.9c   1,87oc,              2.2         11.1           94Y    29Y    14Y              82A          qlly            ...             32Y                              1 u A          S8 y          4 3y       11
IRELAND                   72        3.00, 2. 1 Son              q.1         13.9D          43Y    41Y    14Y              98           97             qqà             35            ...                994            75            1q           7.(UA
PORIUGAL                  72        9.00   1141,ID
SPAIN                     71    314.7D   t  71 oD               ;:18       ;:2A          1;;                                         Q' Il
AFRICA
AL       1                79      15.7           7 7 M          7.S           ...          4tG    326    18G              30           76              62E            42L            6.OG              019E           17            25           4j  i, 0
BENIN                      7i       2.9          1111               1       S210           -47       ?i        Io         Il           32XIi           7(9            SOI,          2s. 11R            41R              7b          j9-          u.4cY
BOTSWANA                  74        o.7          11-)                      2'l . o        1;8       "O        ls         25           7 D'A           75             35              9.1)             24              13X          lm            ..suy
BURL,Nnl                   7'q      3.11           Q?           2  S        1q.qQ          47R    Il 1 R       12R        10           cox             3 t,           36            lu .11             14               2 x         lm            1.11
CAMEPOON                  7t;       6.11         21")           %.q         2,). u         38Y    29Y    17Y              ...           74                            SIDY                                              9           ?3CY          0  9(CY
C.A.P.                    7Ii       1.7o         li,11D         11.oN    214Q              Si,       19        ...        ...          64CY            LI             61,CY                                             SCY         2 1 ., Y      U:07Y
CHAD                      TS        il.on          Roi)         3 . o       1 il . I)      78        22                   1 Il         29XBY           3t)            hssy          15.0                 a              2xdy    30                0.(lay
CONGU(B)                  74       l.i          4 So           6.o         19.3           40        S 2      21          s 0 ?       133X             63             61             6.0               U8             33X           ?2           3.40
EGYPT                     74    36.11            8I)           S. 5          ...          29        36       21I         40           7(X             4 s            40            ...                64             39X             8           1.0u
ETHIOPIA                  7i    26.S               q1           3.1        2) . (        14 2      29        18           7           17C            il 2           , 0            3.0              63               2             I.          u.2o
GA8)N                    73        u .            1 Il         i .')      211.6          ?5          9       il         ...         184XBY           11r           4 fiC          5.0               LbA            2uC             1 L         l.0cY
GhANA                      , ;      Q .          II,  n ".     Il .7       2'I.DR        ;89    J'U    25              ...          56xcy           l',            3 ,Ly                           t4             iix           lb[Y         O.i44'
ItIQY  COA37             72        5.80         3 9,*              5       2't  7         279Y   ffl     y  1 sy           qA         52             L,74            4ü                                              Io            èb           1
KENYA                     73    t?. It                          t, .,IN    27    i         63        il        il         40           73              ...                                                              2           23               Il 313 y
LE s 1) T HO              7q        1 .          1 1 I'N       I.)p    23   0             149       18       20          40           AS              St,            S2             7 . ON            81             lu            26            1 . uo
LIBERIA                   7'        1.1           41 o          ?.I         02            27        1 S      2.)         73           5A              ...            3b             2.0               ...             12           2b            1 . 1 1) A y
MADGASCAR                74        8-           1 1 ID         .?        22.1           91        é. 14    2s          40           b8X             -J ,          (13           111.0              '18              9 x         ?6            1 .00
MALAWI                    71t           8 .     1 1 'j        3.1         21.Q                                         25           56X             6ti            qt)             7 . 0            Il (            a x         èo            ..ebcy
MALI                      7 L4          ir         7'.0          1 iIN      v   . i                           't 2'l';    toc           18A            22A            4 OA          1 il . OF,         37A              UA          17â               1 t.A Y
MAuI7ANIA                7ti       1,2D         21tor,         Ii .1,      2 1 .')                                       Io            jSX                          1 2                                              3           24
MAuITIuS                 72        Il .8D       111 ffl)        I;.7       1L.7DQ                   W         T          60           86                             -s 1                                             s 1          3 e           ;'7CY
MLI'q'CCO                74    111.9            32-1           I, .   C  1 1, .         '14       'il        9         26?          54X             21             17              ...              3              13x          ?1           2:00
NIGERTA                   71    71,ZD            21 OD           5.LN    ...                4qA    ?..tA    20A           ...          iqxcy           ...            314C Y          ...                                               L y      u.37CY
R-AlqDA                   7;        3.9D           Iffl)        1.2C    28. IiD            ...           ...      ...     1?3          112             ...            1 1            ...              ...                          13           , . i?3c y
SENEGAL                   71        14 . (D      2811 r)        4 .-IN    22.qDR    39A    Il?. A               5A        Io           38X             ...            U 6                                               lx          25            1  71cy
SIERRA  LEONE    7;                 2.7          1 &O           3.1I        23,4           3 1       i il     30          15?          34X             ils            '52            Il                                 ix          21           U:53dy
SOMALIÀ                   7q        3.2          1 0(           .7Q        1(,8w          49Q    16Q    lqp              lio?         34X             86             3',           1 u . 0            bu               5           ls           0.10
SUDAN                     72      17.0D          1 3or,         Il . r,     13.2           14 1;     ?q       28          1            38              75             4 s            4 . il            ?s             il            p 0           1.23Y
SwAZILAND                 7-3       0.5          1010           il s        1A.0           37        i 1      Li          sO           70             so              38              5.0              M4             19            22           2.0-)
TANZANIA                  7Il    13.2c           1 loc          S. IN       1 7  I)        i6        ...    12            63           44X             ...            qq              ...                7              2           111(         Il. jo
TUNISIA                   ?3        11.140       11(lon         6.3         2S.14          i7        113      18          r, v,        72             ai              41             6. Q                l            la            èl           3 . (- 
UGANDA                    IO    10.8t)           1 1".) D       ;. 2N      1 7 . ,C R    il., U    120    2 1, Q        254          48XCY           ...            36              ...              14A              4XLY    21               u . b ', ti y
UPPER   VOLTA             72        5.7D           70 L)        't , Il     23.9                     1 ')       6           9           Io             ...            4 S           18.(                                            23           0.018y
ZAIRE                     7i    2S.4             1 4 Il         5.2cN  2I.-,c                  C     17C    29C           15           6i              38              Â4A            6.(                                           24               9téiy
ZAMBIA                    711       U.7          482            s . l       111.2          34        18       t6          43           98              8o             Il 7           q . il              0            li            22               0 (j
CENIRAL AMERlCà AND THE CàRIBBEAN
---------------------------------
COSTA  RTCA               71        I.Kn         71 or)         S . I,      22.7           57                  t2         99           GÙCY            (19            29             3.0               SA              ,ry         Ils         12.11cy
DUMINICAN  REP.72                   '4 . 10)     ,2.D         3 . I)      13.9           4?          Il    Il 2         51           A i)            17             SLI            3.OD              63              1 3.11       24           7. .
EL   SALVADOR             7 S       'S. 7n       'S r") 0        5.6        2S.8           bl                 22          6()Èi        6,31            ...            incy            ...              39              1XL         el(y                    ï
rUATEMALA                 7 _i      S. 1         1, 0o           t.q        1 f, . 0       li 1     e        1 4         47           ('4             26             31,            3 . 0             69               il          2b
HAITI                     72        `4. IID      1 3oD          Il .9         f, . ÙD      6 1       1 1        8         208          22              2 Il ?         a S            S, . o            50               3           2
HONOURAS                  72        2.7D         32oD           3 . 9       2e, .,D       (, 4      1 l       1 8        î 1         8 1 X           1 8            l7             i, . 0            75                IX         14           3.t
JAMAICA                   71-1      1 .9r)       qq.ID          b.-Y        1 97            i3y    ?èy          7Y        8(l         1 I)b X y        . . .          r?              . : il                            Il X y      1 9          Il . 1 9 y
MEXICO                    7.1   L't, . (r,       89iffl         2 .6          y 3          q'l      'I'l       1 2        76            7 1            3 1            44b             i                  3,             9           2 1          f, . 5 è ', y
NI C ARAGLJA              711       2 . (F)      S il o r)      2 .         1,4 . 2        (Il       1 1       il         SI           (, S            2 1             5 7           2 .1)             9 5             i 7          2 4          7 . t 1 0
TRINIOAD  il  T.  7 1               1 . 1 1 D   1 , 3 1  r'                 1 el . 9                            2         90           qsx            8 7             3i             4                                4q            ?5           2.56AY
SOUTH AMERICA
-------------
BRAZIL                    7 d   1 &J 1 . 1 D     7bOO                S      1 2 . Il c       2       ?v          i 7      79           8ox             . . .          27CY            . . .                            1 hti        15cy         6 . (1 OFI
CHILE                     72      1 o . 21)      72ilo          4 . 6y      i t) . 6AY    36Y        14Y       i il y     . . .       1IIXDY           . . .          l74Y           . . .            . . .          4ax0y         ...
COLUM81A                  70    22.SD            1111.)D        Il I)       1 a .9          Ili      1 8      20          7 S          67              20             '16             4. il            9,1             1 7          L4           4,: ;O
ECUADUR                   72        6.7n         39I)D           i.7        27.7r          41,QY  il;?Qy   100Y    69                   7 Il           ...            18                               . . .           18           14            4 .97%y
GUYANA                    7il       0 . 7        il 1 oD        S.8N    1,4 . 7 0          14 7      ss        1 q        83à           92K            39             1 1                              1 q             b2x          24            1 .11(
PARAGUAY                  74        2. 'ID       37 O            1 . 8      1 1 . -)       r, s      1 3      2 2         8 1          A 2             2 6            31)                9             ù 9             i 7          1 2          5.00
PERU                      7 1    1 4 .  1)      62i)D           il . r,    2,4 . 1 0      90        2 2       1 13       7 2           R(             38             39DY                t,           fil             0           230 y    la.(U
VENEZtJELA                73      1 1 . 2`    1 1 6 31)         01.6        19.9           30Q    è8G    ibn              77A          A 1             . . .          3 3                 4            . . .           5 3          . . .       12.bJCY



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATOIS   (CONTO)                                          ANNEX I  PAGE 2
NOVEMSER 10, 1976 
aGNP/ i I QNP   :1 TOTALUX   OF PUBLIC i                                              i                                  SC s
a       RCAPITAI  DEVOTEDIPUBLIC a EDUCATION    cLUTER- a PRO. ICOMPLE- ÎUTU- ISCM.TEACH:PROGRESS-s SEC. ISTIfr r
i       AT   i TO) EDU.oe   EXP. I RECURRENT    SACT          *ENROLLITION         IDENT808ALARY INsION RATE aENROLLIDENTSsHIGHERI
P.    1 MARKETrn  CPU8LIC,DEVOTED,EXP ALLOCATED1  ,RATE  :RATI0  :RAlESFDRaPERCMIRELOTION   FRNPRt.,RATID  IPERCHIENeROLLz
iPP    PRICESi  EP.    iTO               Tas0       iC FD      NET   IPRO.8CH.,TEACd   TO GNP/  Ta  àEC.   aNIET    TEACM   RATIO:
YRI(COIbO   i (USIS)f ONLY)   I  EDU. aPRI. SEC. HI.IADULTS)a  (I)   iCYCLECI),ER    a CAPOTA   a  (1)                      s <Z)   $ER    o <> 
t       i                    J                           a         a        s          a       s            g            a        a           
O (1) r:   (21  a  ( 31          (4 )   a     (51        s (6I    s( i          (VI    a ( 9): i     0)    i( (1    12( 12)   3<153) 3 (14)
4534 AND OCEANIA
AFPGHmANIST-A-N - --74'   16.3    90?      ..39F   j3P   IÔP    10                        pôX       24        41        5.0         78          ex     21       3.00
8ANGLADESN       73  74.0         en       1.2    20,2........    23                      560       ...       48        *           ...       231      28        ..
CHINACTAIWAN) 73   15.4         660        3.2    14.0      28    41   22        82       90E       94        40       14.0         84        bIC      26      20.UOoC
18014            71 '903.90    3 20D       2.641  -.        ...     ... . .    29         79X       ...       430       ...         ...       280      20AV    4.OO0V
1800N8I81        73 124.40    illilD       1.8    1 1.1)    63    23    14      62        63        40        32        5.0         91        12       16       2.00
IRAN             73   32.1      87<)       3.3    32.6      SOS  188   328    54          77        74A       32        5.08        BOA       24       32       4.32Ev
IRAQ             72   34.40    8900       6.7    16308 ........    26                     olEl      ...       22        ..          ...       260EV   26        6.28CV
JLIRDAN          73    2.,5      34<4      7.1)    8,8      5 2    35    21    5,9        910       76        38        5.0         84        500      22       4.400         ,
KOREA0           73  32.9        '40)      2,9    20.3      64    26      8      92       97        90       513        3.0         71        46       37       6.00
LEBANON          72    2. 90    9400)      3  1.9  .80       39    40    1 0     68       46        65        1 9       2. 0        63        2bU      25      23.1<0
MALAYSIA         70   13. 7     670i       6. a    28M. 0   441   33    3 1      60E      96F       94        32        4.00        83F       44F      27F      3. 'OF
OMAN             72    0 .6D    840D       1.7N    3. 8     96      -    -       2 0      24X       99        3 3       7.0         ...       0.4)       9       ..
PAKISTAN         7 9  66.20    1 2<40      3.6    16.2      45,   25    18       21      1«7X       sA        39        2.0         ...       17X      18       6.00
PAPUA N.G.       75    2.6       430       5.6    ib.I       38    16    24      32       97?       73F       31       13.0         90        120?    24        0.90?
PHILIPPINES    74  4u.20    2800           2.9    34,9      73    15    12       87     104X        ...       30       15.0         ...       460      ...    21.00
SINOAPORE        72    2.20D 3,83<30       3.3    t6.2      44    4l    15       750      96V       724       33        ...         994       57Y      24       0.251
THAILANO         73  39.4       270)      i 4.oNF 20,7F    69       9    15     82       070        93E       32        3 .0 U      92E       214      24       2.00
TURKEY           72   37.90    60<30       ...    13,o0Re... ....    .     1050EV    . ..                     340V      ...         ...       220V    270V    5.328V
YEMEN            73    o.3       10(4      0.9~    4,4      49F   21F   23F    10         350       38        36        9.0         75         20      19       4.058V
YEMEN P.D.R.   72    1.90    3100         2.3*   32.6       79    12      -      10       700       31        24       10.0         99        lax      20       0.084V
NUMBER OF CoUNTRIESa                       74     71       69    68l   68      69       77        53         76           si      54         77       73        73
RANGEa                                 («).9l-   (3.8-  (25- (A-   (A-    (5-         (10-      (17-      (19-        11.8-    (7-        (.4-    (9-       (.01-
12,0F  I  32.31   96 I 521   401    981          3840)    99 I       65 1        29.0>    991         75.o1   43)       23.01
QUARTILESIUPPER                         9 .2    22.1      SIS    31    22     75       87        75        46           8        80        29        26      6.4
MEDIANO                     l  4,43 1%  3u,   Ir    23    35    TiO        71       90         38          5        63         16       23       2.00
LOwoEN r                   3.0    î3,9       38    16    12      21       92         30        33           3        25         9       20        .9
--   -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  - -  -  - --  - -  -  - -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  -  -
SYMROLS: ... DoîliVM UNAVAILABLE                  0:3970 OR BEFORE              <4=CtRRENT PRICES                            SOUCEEsa
-MAGNITUDE NIL OB NEGUIGIBLE 8=1971                                N:10P
7QUFSTIONABLE                        cr1472                        P:ONCLUDING FüRFIGN AIT                       COLU-1m-NOri  AND 2 :(<RLO BoNo  ATLAS
* INCLUDES PART-TIRE ITUDENTS 0:1973                               Q=CENTRAL G0V1.  0NLV                                              OR 1840  MISSIOINS
*4CLJMV1NEO W~ITH PR(VORY             E=1979                        4:MINISTNY 0F EDUCATIUN  (MUE) ONLO                     3 TO 10 1880  MISSIOINS
F=1979                        S:MOE AN0 SVAlE GuoT. ONLY                                         ANC/OR UNESCU
1:1976                        T=EXCLUIING CENTRAL G0VT.                                          STAIISTICAL
U=PUBLIC ÛNLY                                                     VEANBOUr<
V=INCLUOING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X:INCLUDING OVERAGEI STUOENTS
Y= UNESEn_SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION 0F VARILUUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS A450 ANALVOIS OF mlELAVIVE STAGES 0F EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT RETWEEN VARIOtIS COUNTRIES. H0WEVER,ON THE OASIS OF 1HE PRESENT IATA,CROSS-NATOONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPRDACHEO 811H
GREAT CAUTION. DATA P4ESENTEO IN THE A80VE TORLE HAVE REEN COLLECTED LARGELY 8 ST E 805K MIS0IO55 FROM GOVERNMNET SOURCESI THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FR08 UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN, MADE VO STANIARIIZT DEFINITIONS AN0 RITHIN LIMITS. TO CH~EEK THE
ACEURACY CF 14E DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH IOTA ARE STILL IMPERFEET IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AN0 T0E BANK) 15 WONKING TO IMPROVE THER
PRO&RESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION 0F ITS OPEOATIONAL wiRA. IN THE USE 0F Vr,ESE DATA, THE FOLLOBING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE 8ONNE ON
MINDI
(11'EDUCATION" AS DEFINED 1N THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION A50 VRAIV<ING, FORMOL AND NON-FORMOL;
(21"PRImARY EDuCAJInN REFERS TO EDUCATION AT 1H4 FIRIT LEVEL AND "SECONTABY' FOUCOTION '(FERS TO ALL. EOUCATION AT THE SECONIANY
LEVEL VEGARDLESS (OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTU4AL> I
(3) LITERACY VATES"(COL.61 A4F OFTEN 081AINE0 FR0M COUNTRY CENSuSES, IN M4NYC(IUNTNIl3. VOVY ARE UJNLY AHPPRXIMATIÛNS AND Il (S
DOUBTFUL 3401 ANY «INIFORM DEFINITION 0F 'LITERATE" HAS 8EEN FOILLDWED CONSISTENTLVI
C41'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN E0UCATION'(COLS.3,V A40 51 REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND BECURRENT EXPENOITURES DEVOTEO TO EOUCATION 8Y
PUBLIC AN0 QUASI-PUBLIE AGENCIES;
(5I'ENROLLMENT RATIOS: (COLS 7. 12 AND 141 REFE4 TO SCHOOL VEAR A00 0EAN THE PERCENTAGE 0F ELIGIBLE CHILOREN ENROLLED PULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SEMOOL, PUBLIC A50 PRIOVAE BT LEVEL. 14EY ARE OFTEN SUBJECI TO A W~IIE MARGIN OF ERROR ON THE DEVELOPINU
COUNTRIES flWîNG TU VARIATION ON THE ACCURACY 0F SOSIE  ATATOI.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLRENT FIGURES-
PREGUENTLY ARE HIGHER THON THE NUMBER 0F STUDENTS ACTUALLYION SEHOOL. 0VER0GEV STUDENTS W4OSE INCLUSION OS INDICATED 8Y
FODTNOTES ALSO CON INFLAVE THE RATIOS.



ANNEX 2
CONGO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT / DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
SECTORAI DISTRIBUTION OF GDP. 1967-1974
(estimate)
DISTRIBUTION SECTORIELLE DU P.I.B., 1967-1974
(estimation préliminaire)
(in current prices in CFAF billion/à prix courants en milliards de Francs CFA)
1967       1970        1974          1974              1974
Current   Constant 1970           7.
prices        prices        Distribution
Agriculture
Livestock/                         )   6.7          8.7         12.5          9.2              9.0
Elevage                            )
Fishing/                           )
Péche                              )
Forestry/                               1.9         2.9          4.8          1.9              1.9
For?t
Mining/                                 0.4         1.5         32.6         14.6             14.2
Mines
Manufacturing industry/                 8.4        10.0         13.2         10.7             10.4
Inaustries manufacturières
Construction                            5.6         5.6          8.8          7.1              6.9
Transport and telecommunications/    7.6            7.8         13.0         10.5             10.2
Transports et Télécommunications
Commerce                                7.5        10.9         19.3         15.9             15.5
Government services/                    9.3        12.3         14.1         14.1             13.7
Governement
Other services/                         5.4         9.1         11.0          9.1              8.9
Autres services
Dwelling rentals/                  (2.8)       (4.4)        (5.1)        (4.2)             (4.1)
Loyers
Other/Autres                       (2.6)       (4.7)        (5.9)        (4.9)             (4.8)
Import taxes/                           5.6         5.7         12.4          9.6              9.3
Taxes à l'importation
GDP at market prices/                  58.4       74.5        141.7         102.7            100.0
P.I.B. aux prix du marche
Net factor income from abroad/         -0.7        -1.0         -8.3         -6.1
Paiements nets de facteurs
GNP æt current market prices/          57.7        73.5        133.4         96.6
P.N.B. aux prix du marcha
June 18, 1976
Source: IBRD documents and World Bank economic mission estimates/
Documents divers,   BIRD   et estimations de la mission economique de la Banque Mondiale.



-  F    <t                                               jr  '-t  >r
W                                         ,,o'            -r   Or   rrr    -'r  r-r  o. o   ,'-r.cr   i.,   - t
.<  r,,       r    nr   WW   rit-'  r-t   r,-   r          Cr0       r   r  Oit
-t  -j2   r         't   i-r   -   o-,t   r         't-  t-to   ot,.Crt  n   -
jr                                 Sg                 :52    r-   r,0                    t-,   r-tt,o
-                     o,,t          i>3   K          ro    riro    -  -j.    o
0                                                        rrjrrt<to-r.rrrrr  *rt-irico,o
Ct-j  rr    rr        r-         O  r-   r  'o   t-,
r-o             o,-  re   r.0O    r,-,  t-Or   Wr   r>-r-i   r-
r,   I.-'    .z          -   or                       -t    r.   ,,<   rr   r-   r-rt-               rtj
r     -                   -     rr                          <t'      t,.  r-.   r-r      r-t-tr      r-  go-
rj, -r
:3    000                 j   r-r
o     -   ji' n           r,                    r               r'  r---  rt      -     o-                -j
r     r                                         -j.             -          or      o     -           -t
-   CCC                                                   j                                    -t
r   -rtC                                                                                       r>    o
--o   r r                       o- -j  t-                    -jtH H -                            jr-j 0  -  jr flo
-         j,  -                                                                                                          r.o-r
r-r--     r   -                               r'      o-
r' j,j,
or-r      <t rr-    r   o                                                                                               k
rr'       -  r.                 j,    j        jr     -j   -j       -t.   -r     j    -          r   ,-t
g
rr-       o   r                                                                                                          ror,
-           z                 j,
-j   j,   -j                -     -       H     -           H         H   -   H
-     jr            H       t-             H     H     H     j,        H   r   t    H
-j    jr   jr       j,      j,    j,      jr    -j    -j    j,         -j  r         -j
t-t   -     -j      -       -j
-    j,                    H                                j,            j,
jr    H       H       -j    H       r           -     -j            Ct  j,   -j   jr  -jÔ-jjr
r-r       r                     H      j,     -j      jr   -j'    jr   -j   -j                                           r-r
jt          -j      j,      jr    -       H     j,           t         H   -j  -j    -     -j  O
jr   -j    H        j,     jr    H        -j    H     -j   j,          H   -j                 k_          -2        3
jr    j             H       -j     j                  -j    -          j,  H   r
-j          j       j,      -j            H     -    H
jr    j     -j      H       Ct            H     -j     j    j,         -j  H   H     H
j,    jr    -j      j,      -j-                                                                              j
H     r                                   jr    jr    jr    j,        j,  -j
-j    H-jr-j-jr                                                                               h
jr  j,  j,  j,  ,    .,                               j,    r j,-j.    j,
-j    j,            j,      jr
jr,   Ht-t j,   -  jr  ta                                                                 t-'
t-    j,    -j                            H-jO--jH   j,
jr    jr              j-,
j,             j-t   H     jr    jr        -j  -j  j,    -j                  j-t        Ct
t-     jr    H      t-       9             j,                H         t-t           j,                       <t    t-
r                             H i j,  jr  jr------ H  t-
rtc   , o  o,
r                                                                       -           ror    0<  e
t  jr-jH-j    HHH-jj  2:¾-  L.
-j-trj, jr j-j
t-                FJ
I                      -j      H             t-j   -j    -               -j                      O     r    t-j  r'
-j   t-      ->--  '*0   t                                                       t-
i                                                                  t
J                     -j       r                               W         -j  -j  j,    -j              r.
jr H-tO-j-j                                           j
O                            -j  -j  jr  jr                     t.-j  jrj'tHHHt-                                             3
t-                                             jr
r            j                      -j      H             -j                           j,      --j                        H
t
-j   t-      -j    H            jr        r'-jjr        -j                   -j
j,     j,             r     r           jr                j,    r         r o          r-
j,       j,   jr               jr  jr  jr    j,        O   c         S-j
o- 3
--             o-    ,              t-      jr     ,      -j   t-           -j         9,            r                    2
<t                                                                                             H     jr
3
-j              -j                                                                     jr
-    t      j      j                                                      ,,              3              r
-j            -j                                               t
j,   -j                                                                                    tY
r       -j   -j       r
jr      H     H             jr   j,               j,  H   Ot    H
-j     -j      -j   jr       H     -j    H      H         -j  j,  H     jr
-j    jr       -j     H      H      jr    j,    -j        jr  j,    jr  H     jr
H        j            H     -j    H                    -j  H          3
jr        9-j-j
j,     jr      jr    -j      jr    jr           -j        j,  -j  -j    H
H       -j            j,   jr           H         t-  H   C)
__                 H                                       -                                     -           j-t  ti r-t
Z >jOorrO                                                                                                             -to  O



CONGO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT / DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCAlION
PROJEC1ED FORMAL SEGTOR MANPOWER REQIIIREMENTS AND SUPPLY 1973-1983
PREVISIONS DES BESOINS ANNUELS EN MAIN-D'OEUVRE DANS LE SECTEUR FORMEL PAR RAPPORT A L'OFFRE
PROVENA-n DI' SYSTERM  D'ENSEIGNE;MENT 1973-1953
Resuise:hne.,ts / Besoinls                                                                                            Scobol-leavers/
Needs Filled by Upprading/            Net Requirements          Avecage               Sortants du
Total             Remplis par la Promution Interne-/          (for School            A .uai           Systeme d Ense,gne-ent
Weeds                                                            leavers)/           Needs/                      aS      0
Total/                           '1eplateesnt                                cros)             s oesoins R/ts                                                                                Re..emnns
Effectifs          New/          Present Stock/                              reos             ts     .. of           umber/                BSornts                 Bel.                       en 7.d
(1   1983  Nouveaux    Besoins de           Africaneiation       "$%Ta6)           totna  totdaux            ber/          (6ortnts                     Asouels         Tot         besoins
L973        (2)-(I)    R____uvell__nt_    A_rica___ti____          (351(4)+<5)       b-sojo  totaux       L6X 7  100                b6) -P(91 ' la                        Total        .11).L22
(1)  (2)  (3)     (4)                    (5)               ~~~~~~~~(b)       M(1                                             (                    (1.0)         (11)           (12>
1.  High-Level Managers              680      1,270        590              80                   70                  740             100                    740                          0                    0            O              -
Cadres Dirigeants
2.  Engineers and Equivalent         780      1,930      1,150             110                  100                1,360               5                     70                      1,290                  130           80             62%
Ingénieurs et Agsîiilés
3.  Technicians                    2,550      4.990      2,440             300                  170                2,910              10                    290                      2,620                 260           150             587.
Maitrise et Techniciens
4.  Middle-Level Adoinistrators 1,980         3,650      1,670             230                   40                1,940               15                   290                      1,650                  160          620           388%
Cadres Admin.Nopons
5.  Office Workers -               8,770    16,720       7,950           1,530                   30                9,510                5                   480                      9,030                  900        5,090            5666%
Esployés de Bureau
6.  Skilled Wurk.rs                8,480    17,750       9,270           1,570                   20               10,860               40                 4,340                      6,520                  650          400             62%
Ouvriers qualifiis
7.  Semi-Skilled Workera          17,590    33,420      17,830           3,180                   -                21,DIO                5                 1,050                     19,960               2,000         2,750            138%
Ouvriers spécialisés
8.  Uoskilled Workers             22,850     33,540     10,690           3,380                   -                14,070                0                     0                     14,070               1,410         2,800            199%
Manoeuvres
9.  Teachers                       5,770    11,530       5,'ÔO           2,520                   70                8,350                0                     0                      8,350                  840          790             94%
Enseignants
TOTAL                 69,450   126,800    57,530            12,900                  500               70,750               10                 7,260                     63,490                6,350       12,680            200%
,  Assom-ig average annua-   attrition ratas sf/En supposant dos rasa annuels eoyens de renouvellement de:  0,8%-categories 1-4,  l,2%-categories S-8,  3%-categorie 9.
2/ Assuming that non-AfrLcans ia poot in 1973, minus those vho will retire during the decade.gill be replaced et the foll1i.g rates/
En supposant que les non-Africains en place es 1973 moins ceux qui prendront leur retraite pendant la décennie seront remplaces à hauteur de:  20%-categories 1 - 2;
25.-categories 3 - 4; 50%-categories 5 - 6; 30%-c.tegarie 9.
3/  Inclsding on the job training/Y cospris la formation sur le tas.
Source: IERD mnsnion
June 18, 1976



CONGO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATTON
PROJECTED PRIMARY TEACHER REQUIREMENTS AND SUPPLY, 1975-1985
BESOINS EN MAITRES DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE 1975-1985
TEACHING STOCK
(6% attrition rate primary and assis-
tant primary teachers)                               OUTPUT FROM TEACHER TRAINING PROGRAMS
STOCK D'ENSEIGNANTS
(déperdition des effectifs d'enseignants               EFFECTIFS PRFVUS D'ENSEIGNANTS NOUVELLEMENT FORIMES
de 687 par an pour Inst. et Inst. Adj.)
Total          Teacher:    Teacher            (1)      (2)         (3)         (4)       (1)        (2)            (3)           (4)             (5)            (6)
Primary        Pupil        Require-      Primary   Assist.   Monitors/   Volun-                                                                                            ° of
School         Ratio        ments         teachers  Prixmary   Auxiliary   teers    at/à            at!à        at/Eà           by/par         by/par                     trained
Enrollments                                          Teachers  Monitors               1  uboMl,   Mouyondzi    Owando          l'INRAP        l'INRAP     |               teachers
(proposed)   on the job/   at!/              TOTAL
Effectifs                                                                                                       (proposé)    sur place        C.F.,P.
de l'en-       Rapport      Nombre d'                Insti-    Moniteurs                                                                      B .ra-zaviile        _      d'enseign
seignement    éleves/En-  Enseignants  Insti-    tuteurs   et Moni-    Volon- Inst. Inst, Lt. Inst.  Inst. Tnst   Inst.. Inst.  Inst  Inst.  Inst. Inst.    anis
primaire       seignant    necessaires  tuteurs   Adjoints  teurs Sup.  taires             Adj          Adj.          Adj.           A             Adj.           A j,   formes
1975      313,632          1:63         4,978         516       2,354      1,300        808    75    30    76                                                        151    30      57
1976      329,910          1:62         5,321         637       2,214      1,220      1,250    74    30    36                                                        110    30      54
1977      345,518          1:62         5,573         711       2,114      1,150      1,598    77    30    65                                                        142    30      51
1978      359,480          1:60         5,991         811       2,022      1,025      2,113    75    30    80                                   95      50   -       205   .25      47
1979      371,167          1:60         6,186         967       2,030        900      2,289    75    30    80                            40    95       50   -       245    '5    48
1980      380,365          1:59         6,447       1,154       2,034        760    .2,499   120   160             240                   40   100       50   -       210   '0       49
1981      386,907          1:58         6,671       1,295       2,412        615      2,349   120   160            235          105      40   100       40   -       200    )0      56
1982      390,858          1:56         6,980       1,417       2,867        480      2,216   120   160            235          105      40   100       40   _       200   IdO      61
1983      392,728          1:55         7,140       1,532       3,295        330      1,983   120   160            235    65   105       65   100       40   _       290   "00      68
1984      393,271          1:54         7,283       1,730       3,698        210      1,645   120   160            235    65   105       70   100       40   -       295   600       75
1985      393,209          1:53         7,419       1,921       4,076         90      1,332   120   160            235    65   105       70 ' 100       40   -       295   600       81
June 18, 1976
Source:  IBRD mission



CONGO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
PROJECTED TZCHNICAL TEACREB R.EQEIRIMZNTS AND SUjPLY 1973-1985
BESOINS D'ENSEIGNANTS DES MATIERES TECHNIQUES AU NIVEAU DES CET ET DES LT 1973-1985
Attrition of
Enrollment                            Teachers of technical subjects/             Congolese Teachers/  Output from Training Programs/                      % of
CETs:LT8/         Teachers/           Enseignants de matières techniques           Déperdition            Promotions des Programmes de Formation          Congolese iZeachers/
Year/      Effectifs         Total en-                        Congolese/    Expatriates/   des effecti fs                         Congo/        Abroad/               % d'enseignants
Annee      CETS:LTs           seignants -        Total 2    Congolais        Expatriés        congolais _            Total        au Congo      s l'étranger          congolais
1974          3333               211                 120           65             55              3                    7              -                7                    54
1975          3630               230                 138           69              69             3                    7              -                7                    50
1976          3960               251                 251           73              78             3                    8              -                8                    48
1977          4320               280                 168           78              90             3                    8              -                8                    46
1978          4700               305                 183           83             100             3                    8              -                8                    45
1979          512X               333                 200           88             112             4                    7              -                7                    44
1980          5590               373                 224           92             132             4                   25             20                5                    61
1981          6090               406                 244          113             131             5                   30             25                5                    46
1982          6650               444                 266          138             128             6                   40             35                5                    52
1983          7240               497                 298          172             126             7                   50             45                5                    58
1984          7900               543                 326          215             111             9                   50             45                5                    66
1985          8600               591                 355          256              99            10                   60             58                2                    72
1986          9370               644                 385          305              go            12                   60             58                2                    79
1/ Includes teachers of general education subjects./ Y compris les enseignants des matières générales
2/  Assuming that teachers of techniceal subjects (including commercial subjects) represent 60% of teaching staff./
Dans I'hypothèse où les enseignants des mati4res techniques (y compris l'enseignemenL commercial) représente 60% du personnel enseignant.
3/ Attrition of teaching staff it *stirated to be 4% per year./ Le taux de déperdition des effectifs est evalué à 47, par an.
June 18, 1976
Source: IBR^D mission



CONGO                                   ANNEX 7
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
INTERNAL EFFICIENCY OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
Cohort of 1,000 Pupils (1973/74)
RENDEMENT DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE
Cohorte de 1,000 Elèves (1973/74)
Year      Class                                                          School Leavers
Année     Classe      CPi      CP2     CE1      CE2     CM1      CM2     Sortants
1      1,000
2        354      623
3        124      389     449
4                 194     428      278
5                  33     281      341     189
6                          92      294     285      118            69
7                                  131     280      226           131
8                                   37     167      269           156
9                                           76      217           126
10                                                   146           146
Total student-
years per class/   1,478   1,239   1,250   1,081        997      976
Total d'années-
élèves par classe
Total dropouts
per class/             69       35      99       58     111
Total d'abandons
par classe
Summary/Récapitulation
Total cohort/Cohorte totale                                         1,000
of which/dont:  School leavers/sortants                             628
Dropouts/abandons                                  372
Total student-years/Total d'années-élèves                           7,021
Student years per leaver/Années élèves par sortant                   11.2
Cost per student-year/Coût-élève                           FCFA   10,790
Cost per leaver/Coût par sortant                           FCFA  120,850
(US$537)
June 18, 1976
Source: IBRD Mission



CONGO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT / DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
RECURRENT EDUCATION EXPENDITURE. 1974
DEPENSES DE FONCTIONNEMENT AU TITRE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT POUR 1974
(CFAF '000/en milliers de FCFA)
._________________________                  Personnel                                                        i
Equipment /          Scholarships/Boarding
National               Assistance Technique                Total                    Matériel                Bourses/Internat                     Total               %
Administration                            264,920                        3,240                         268,160                   31,625                                                       299,785                3.8
Primary/Primaire                        3,089,431                       2,520                        3,091,951                   71,020                         _                           3,162,971               39.7
Secondary/Secondaire General            1,232,039                      79,440                        1,311,479                  109,212                     285,026                         1,705,717               21.4
ler cycle                                      1,033,630                     26,828                         1,040,458                71,686                          124,428                      1,256,572
2eme cycle                                        198,409                    52,612                           251,021                 37,526                         160,598                         449,145
Technical/Technique                       396,921                      33,960                          430,881                  163,517                     232,902                           827,300               10.4
CEFP                                              114,128                        -                              114,128               19,090                          13,548                         146,766
CET                                               150,641                    10,006                             160,647               30,132                          45,121                         235,900
Lycée Technique                                    73,625                    19,635                              93,260               50,934                          72,824                         217,018
Other vocational                                   58,527                     4,319                              62,846               63,361                         101,409                         227,616
traininig/
Autres formations prof.
Primary Teacher Training/Ecole             70,161                        6,120                          76,281                   13,567                     123,766                           213,614                2.7
Norma 1 e
Post-secondarv/Sup`érieur                 224,327                      28,920                          253,247                  222,003                   1,233,597                         1,708,847               21.4
au Congo                                          224,327                    28,920                            253,247               222,003                         732,930                       1,208,180
Abroad/à l'étranger                                  -                         -                                 -                      -                            500,667                         500,667
Other Training/Autres Formations           42,176                       1,080                           43,256                   12,040                      _                                 55,296                0.6
Preschool/préscolaire                              34,192                      -                                34,192                 6,940                            _                             41,132
out of school/parascolaire                          7,984                     1,080                              9,064                 5,100                                                          14,164
TOTAL    Amount/montant                 5,319,975                     155,280                        5,475,255                  622,984                   1,875,296                         7,973,530               100.0
in %/en %                       66. 7                           2.0                          68.7                        7.8                      23.5                             100.0
June 18, 1976                                                                                                                                                                                                               L
Source: IBRD mission



CONGO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT / DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
COST PER STUDENT-YEAR BY LEVEL OF EDUCATION 1974
(in CFAP)
COST-ELEVE 1974
(en FCFA)
Personnel                                                   Scholarship-.
Boarding/
Assistance                              Equipment           Bourses-                                 Enrollments
National           Technique            Total               Materiel            Internat            Total               Effectifs
%0        ._%%_._°/_                                                            %_      %__ _       _    _  _      _    _
Primary/Primaire                 10,539   97.9            9      0.1    10,548    97.8         242      2.2        -         -      10J790    100          293,138
Lover Secondary/CEG              17,727   82.3         460       2.1    18,187    84.4       1,229      5.7       2,135      9.9    21,551    100           58,308
Upper Secondary/LEG              23,614   44.2        6,262     11.7    29,876    55.9       4,466      8.4      19,115    35.8    53,457    100             8,402
Elementary Technical/            59,784   77.8          -          O    59,784    77.8      10,000    13.0        7,097      9.2    76,881    100            1,909
CEFP
Lower Secondary Technical!       79,285   63.9        5,266      4.2    84,551    68.1      15,859    12.8       23,748    19.1   124,158    100             1,900
CET
Upper Secondary Technical/       51,378   33.9       13,702      9.1    65,080    43.0      35,544    23.5       50,819    33.5   151,443    100             1,433
LT
Primary Teacher Training/        88,475   32.8        7,718      2.9    96,193    35.7      17,108      6.4     156,073    57.9   269,374    100               793
Ecole Normale
Post Secondary/ Sup6rieur
- Univ. of Brazzaville           89,409   18.6      11,527       2.4   100,936    21.0      88,485    18.4      292,120    60.6   481,539    100             2,509
- Abroad/a 1'étranger               -       -          -          -       -          -         -       -        417,223   100.0   417 223    100             1,200
June 18, 1976
Source: I.B.R.D. Mission



CONG0
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME7  PROJET EDUCATION
S0Uff0RY OP EST IMATED PROJECT COSTS
Estimated Cest ij CFAP '000 ai ef July 1976
TABLEAU SQMHAIRE DES COUTS ESTIMES DU PROJET
Coûts ERtimés on milliers de FCFA en date de Juillet 1976
Pernitere                              Eq.ip.eet
Construetion                                              M,bilier                               Eunipment                                         Project
Academice &                                     Acadenic &                                    Academi c &                                                   Admin-
Ceoamunal                                       Ceommunal                                     Ceommunel                           Technical                 lerraTtio
Site De-   Enseignesent               Staff                 Enseignement             Staff               Enseignemeet                        Assist. &                  Adisis-             Tetal
velupepet  et Admi-        Baarding  hoesing                et Adai-       Boarding  HBosing             et Adme-       Borrding              Fels.wshipa/ Arch.        tratien    '500 CFAF         US$
VRD        nistration      Internat  Lagem.ents  XtAL       nistrati in Internat  Le2emeets   Total  nistrati-n   Internat    Tatal   arouses               Coneult.   du PriLet       US$1 = CUAF 225
A  1. Primary Teachera College at            104,132      107,600      180,928    128,000    520,660    13,000          14,000    6,000      33,000       61,500      15,000     76,500      44,550                              674,7io   2,998,711
Ecole Nermale d'O..and
2. Eduaatieeaî Publieations Unit            7,680      38,400          n.          c.       46,080      2,080           e.       e.        2,080      126,450       n,       126,450    104,625                              279,235   1,241,045
at Brszeavilla/
Daparteeent4Ptour les Fublications
Educsaatîvea a Bra zee viIlea
3. Teehnical Teaeher Training              31,088      83,250        63,790       8,400    186,528      6,100         5,000      500      11,600       81,600       2,400     84,000    119,475                              401,603   1,784,902
Departmeet ce Seeesdary Teasher
Training Instit.te at Braeeevlle/
Ientitut Natienal Supérieir des
Sciences de l'Education D;parte-
ment peer la Pormatine des Prafes-
saurs de l'En.eignemeet Teehniqce.
4. Forestry Scheol et Mcssendje/           11,710       14,700       28,040       9,600      64,050    12,000          6,500     500      19,100       52,200       6,800     59,000    196,425                              338,475   1,504,334
Ecole Fereotière de MYoseedjn*
5.  Ed.catice-l Planning/                                                                                                                                                     16,875    118,800        33,750                169,425      753,000
Planification de l'Edueetien
6, Project Administration/                                                                                                                                                                                         62,550     62,550      278.000
Adiisnitretio de Projet
sub-total '000 CFAF                154,610     243,950       272,758    146,000    817,318    33,180          25,500    7,000      65,680     321,750      24,200    342,825    583,875         33.750      62,550  1,925.998
eees-t.tal '000 FCFA
stsb-tetaî 00$                    687,156    1,084,222   1,212,258    648,889  3.632.525   147,467           113,333   31,111    291.911   1,430,000    107,556  1_1U_55   2.595,000           130,000    2                      8.559.992
scstea$EU                                                                                                                                                                _____
B      Phyieal ieetiegesulee '000 CFAF                                                          81,732                                         6,568                              36,283       n.                                124,583
Impr-vue Quantitefe
US$                                                            363,253                                        29,191                             161,256        -. n.                    n.                    553,700
Priae Estelatien        '000 CFAF                                                      258,750                                        20,250                              90,000     112,500       13,500      15,750    510,750
Augmentation des Prie
SUS                                                          1,150,000                                        90,000                             400,000     500,000       60,000      70,000                 2,273,000
Grand T.tal            'O00 CFAF                                                      1,157,800                                       92,498                             489,108    496,375        47,250      78,300  2,561,331
Tota I
$us                                                          5 14_5 78                                      _41;.02                            2J17_3512  3.095.000       210,000   348.000                 11.383.692         3
Foreign Exc5ange                                                                          5%                                            7 5O                               90%          80'7          80%         701                      70%        &3
Devises EtrtangèresO
$US                                                         2,830,178                                       237,771                            1,956,431  2,476,000       168,000   243,600                  7,961,980
leInclddes f Le1 etaties at Ouess.
I'antenne de Tuesse feulas.
Scptelbe- 10, 1976
Secre-  I8RD miselan



CONGO
SECOND OOCATIOOR PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDOCATION
CONTINOOINVD ALIOWANCRS
20'$ milio-
TROODIGISIO MPOUR _IMRPEVUS
tltsede Oto
t97?                           1918                           1979                           1980                           1981                          TOTAL
Local  EcceeRleet Total    LovaiLtEanaroToa&oclEtes~e   TIo.1..                    Loa .    t.a. eeo   Tota       Local       ooa  Total          Local  Rteoe    Total
I. Cloil Wotks-Eéeis CIvil
Base CastE Osiosts-Coo0-  de Ros  Estima'                                0.32       0.95      1.72      0.86       i.O5      1.91                                                                                                     1.83      2.00       3.63
b. Plsossoaî CoeteeRie.toev-  Qoa..tise'e                                    Dol       0.09       0.10      D.09      0.11       0.20                                                                                                    0.15       0.28      0.3E
v  . Rb-total - sa...-evel (-st)                                             0.84      1.04       1089      0.95      île6       2.11                                                                                                    1.79       0.20      3.99
d. REPevtad Peli-tosae   Préivisio     do Oa-co  de, Peio                    0.18      DOl2      0.40       0.34      0.41       0.75                                                                                                    0.02       0.63      0.15
T. Ttal:  Ctili aorte   C.eie CivIl  (o-Pi)                                 1.12      1.28      2.20      1.29       1.51      0.0Ei                                                                                                   2.31       2.83       5.14
a. Base Ceas tscteast-Co   do Ras  Osîte00                                      0.01       0.03      0.08      0.îR       0.26                                                                                                    D.R9       0.20      0.29
b. Phostoi Cootteeettas -Dape~vssQosotitcOs                                                      0.01       0.02      0.03                                                                                                     0.01      8.82       0.03
e. Dot-total  -sots- total (set)                                             ODI1      0.2       0.03       0.09      0.20       0.29                                                                                                    0.10       0.22      8.32
0. RElactIl prisa leceaes-e0 i... dv Esoste dla Pois                                                        0.03      0.06       0.09                                                                                                    o.o3       0.06      0.09
e.Ttal:   Fort   bacs        liottte  (e-+l)                               0.01      0.02       0. 03     0.12       0.28      0.30                                                                                                    0.13       0.20      8.41
a. Base Cea  RatieaetaCoatr de Ras  Ort~ie4                           D.03      0.20      0.31       0.13      0.10       1.30                                                                                                    0.16       1.43      1.61
t. Ptplal Cotsslv'sl             spta  Q-aettés                                        0.0        0.03      0.01      0.12       0.13                                                                                                    0.01       8.15      0.1
c. Sob-tatl   sass1      a   (a+b)                                           0.03      0.3`1      0.34      9.14       1.29      1.43                                                                                                    8.17       1.60       t.??'
d. Copetai prli-otceoe          Prioloiloa de Ososse des Trio              O.0        0.05      0.08      0.03       0.31      0.34                                                                                                     0.04      0.36       0.550
s.torah   Eqaspe-t -  qoipeaes (c+d)                                       0.04       0.38      0.40      0.17       1.60      1.00                                                                                                    0.21       1.96       2.17
IV. Tacthttl1 Aaslseaec-astsc   Ta le Rt
s.Bas  test Osietoaa    Ca.t de Rase E.ti.                                0.03       0.14      0.10      0.18       0.00      0.80      0.18       0.0 0     0.00       0.11      0.4 5      0.56      0.02       0.09      0.11l      0.52      2.08       2.60
S. bo-total  -....s-rtat  (e+b)                                            0.03      0.14       0.12      0.18       0.0       0.88      0.10       0.30      .8.0       DRI1      0.43       8.58      0.02       0.09      0.11       0.52      2.06       2.60
d. REpactai ptilce.. lerae-Péotsloo   de Haa.s. des Pela                               0.01       0.01      0.02      0.10       0.12      0.04      0.14       0.18      0.03       0.12      0.15       0.00      0.03       0.04      0.10       0.40      0.50
e. Ttal:  Tectastoat bstae-ARRsata..  Techoiqas (o-E)                      0.03       0.12      0.10      8.20       0.00      1.00      0.22       0.04      1.0 6      0.04      0.57       0.31      0.03       0.12      0.15       0.602     2.48       3.10
a ..Bs  Ctest Ratiaste - Cas  de Base latta~4                                                                                            0.03       0.12      0.05                                                                      R.03      0.12       0.15
o. Rot-totl.    -QRceroai(aet                                                                                                              003        0.1        .1
.. Sb-t.t.1  (.+b)                                                               0.03      0.12      0.15                                                                     ~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.03  0.12  0.15
i. Eapetted Pli"a eraa  - Prévîieea- de fla..s.  de  Pets                                                                                  0.01       0.05      0.06                                                                     0.01       0.05      0.06
e.Ttal:  trot. Coe..ttooty - test. Ceasetle                                                                                              0.04       0.17      0.21                                                                      0.04      0.12       0.21
VR. PR)c  diioals-Asiltaledo  oo
a.  as  Caat REtitast  - taae de Rase iatiaj00                                         ,6       00          .3       00          .7        .2       00          .7       00          .3       00                   0.01      0.01       0.00      0.19       0.20
b.Phpeioal Ceeriegeet.ies- Ialor0sqast4s0.2                                           00         .0       88         00         .0       00          .9        .2        00         .3        00                                           o          o 
S. Da-total - Sees-taso1 (a-et)                                             0.02      0.0       0.00      0.03       0.04      0.00       0.02      0.5 5     0.007     0.02       0.0 3     0.0 5                 0.01      0.01       0.09      0.19       0.20
0. Rop-oted pelce tee.eases- Peéviatoss  de Ras...  dea Prie                  .o       0.01                  o 0.01         0.01 0,0       0.01      0.01       0.02                 8.0 2     0.02                 0.01       0.81      0.02       0.05      0.007
a. Ttal:  Pra). Adaieisttotloo - Adtst-  do Poojet (tsi)                   0.03       0.0       0.09      0.03       0.04      0.05      0.03       0.06      0.08       0.02      0.0 5      R         0.027 0.02 O                    0.11      0.24       0.35
Rate Cest REt~iseR  - test de Basa Ratissa                                0.0 6      1.4 5     2.31       1.28      3.04      4.42      0.23       0.02      1.00       0.43      0.40      0.61       0.02       0.10      0.12       2.52      8.04      0.58
Phyatcal Ceteeco       ascsQcrto0.03                                                0.12       0.18      0.11       0.25      0.38                                                                                                    0.18       0.30       0.55
REpeetod pelas tic- aae-..v.   te   de Osass  des Pela                    0.20       0.20      0.49      0.02       OSo9      1.31      0.08       0.20      0.28      0.02       0.15      0.10       0.01       0.04      DOS5      0.73       l.55       2.23
0RAND TEOTAL -TOTAL                                        0.13      1.00       2~98      1.01      4.28       6.09      0.29      1071       1.3 6     0.19       0.63      0.78       0.03      0.14       0.17      3.42       7-9      11.30
Y l-Pli. L..~ ~ ~~~~~~sasliûv Pio cetss
FrP il   ore Ha.-R ..eo   d-s Pets                        1006   1900    1971   1929   1900    1981
CivilEt   k Bt-Gesse  Civol                               -147.    12%    127.
Faett- M.biîli.                                       127,.   107.     80.
Eq90ip ...e5-iEqoiplsee                                     1 0%    0%4    07.
Tsctoica1 sA.is taet-sasec   Toveltqot1J                     el.    57.      1%      5%      ST      50,
Alet. Cotaoltav .. y    ettve   CMeesil                     164.    12%    127.    127.
Projeet Odsssrto               licaindo Projet              0%       0%     07./    60       5%      5%
Psa l pie - ecosaos aioo               by voepootdie8s    aasg             privalovteats l  plilr year_
aed os-aI         Ilt. prIve~      -   iceaolet hlea c- oc-r-d.
Lo  toaste a...elle des ptis so   -lco1l  se cooposoot   le  tao  aaçeostc   de- ao sperce-
Ropsember 10, 1976                                                     dsttrtl  -tolé do  aadssetto   de l'a......ocecoie
R    Isc:    88  eaaa



ANNEX 12
CONGO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT I DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
ALLOCATION OF FINANCING BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(us$ 0ooo)
REPAFRTITION DU FINANCEMENT PAR CATEGORIE PRINÇIPALE DE DEPENSES
(en milliers de $EU)
Financing/Financement
Total     Government      IBRD      S IBFPD   net of taxes/
Civil Works/                4,80        1,880         2,300      55%        hors taxes
Génie Civil
Furniture/                     270          80           190      70%
Mobilier
Equipment/                   1,780         j8o         1,600      94%
Equipement
Technical Assistance/        2,625         525         2,100      80%
Assistance Technique
Architectural Consultancyl    150           30           120      80%
Architectes - Conseils
Project Administration!        270          80           190      70%
Administration du Projet
Unallocated/ *               2109          609         1,500
Non - affecté
Total       11,384        3,384        8,000
(US$1 = FCFA 225)
*  To cover price increaseEs i_.`fcreseen physical factori- are already includecd
in applicable categories above.
Pour couvrir la hausse des prix, les imprévus étant déjf  inclus dans les
catégories s'y afférent ci-dessus.
September 24, 1976
Source: IBRD mission



A'NNEX 13
page 1 of 2
CONGO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
REQUIREMENTS FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND FELLOWSHIPS
Man-years
I.     Technical Assistance
A.  Primary Teachers College
- Assistant to the director in program operation
and practice teaching                                         3
B.  Educational Publications Unit
1. Adviser to the director, specialist in
educational publishing                                      3
2.  Editorial adviser                                           2
C.  Technical Teacher Training
1. Specialist in planning and administration of
technical teacher training                                  3
2. Specialist in methodology of technical teacher
training                                                    2
3. Specialist in methodol.ogy of commercial teacher
training                                                    2
D.  Forestry School
1.  Assistant to the director, specialist in forestry
administration                                              3
2. Specialist in forest exploitation and
production                                                  3
3.  Specialist in silviculture                                  3
>4. Specialist in wood industries and transformation
of wood                                                     3
E.  Educational Planning
1.  Educational planner and planning coordinator                1 1/2
2.  Economist and manpower planner                              1
3. Specialist in technical education and vocational
training                                                    1
4.  Specialist in agricultural education and training           1
5.  Specialist in women's training programs                     1
6. Short-term specialist services for third project
preparation                                                 1/2
TOTAL:  Total man-years of technical assistance proposed for
Bank financing                                                    33



ANNEX 13
page 2 of 2
II.    Fellowships
A. Educational Publications Unit
1.  Production/composition (2-3 persons)                               4
2.  General editing (5 persons)                                        6
3.  Research/curriculum (5 persons)                                    5
B. Technical Teacher Training
1. Technical upgrading and teacher training: mechanical,
electrical and construction technology; commercial practices
(4 persons)                                                       4
2.  Technical school administration                                    1
3.  Educational technology                                             2
4.  Audiovisual techniques, methods and equipment                      2
C.  F'-restry School
-   Technical upgrading and teacher training (4 persons)               9
D. E4ucational Planning
=   U raining and upgraling in educatî9nal planning
(7 jurnior and 2 senior staff), Qpecializ6tions in
educational statisties, general education, technical
education, vocational training, women's progreas                 1
TOTAL:  Total man-years of fellowships proposed for Bank  inancing47



ANNEX 14
CONGO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(uS$ millions)
CALENDRIER DES DECAISSEMENTS
(millions de $EU)
Fiscal                                          Accumulated          Undisbursed
Year         Quarters       Disbursements       Disbursements        Balance
Année                                            Décaissements       Solde Non
Fiscale      Trimestres     Décaissements       Accumulés            Decaissé
1977            1*             0.01                                   7.99
2              0.45                0.46               7.54
1978            3              o.66                 1.12              6.88
h              0.70                1.82               6.18
5              1.20                3.02               4.98
6              1.24                4.26               3.74
1979            7              0.90                 5.16              2.84
8              0.97                6.13               1.87
9              0.31                6.44               1.56
10              0.36                6.80               1.20
1980           il              0.20                 7.00              1.00
12              0.21                7.21               0.79
13              0.18                7.39               0.61
14              0.19                7.58               o.42
1981           15              0.12                 7.70              0.30
16              0.13                7.83               0.17
17              0.09                7.92               o.o8
18              o.o8                8.00               0.00
* Starting from the projected date of effectiveness cf the Loan Agreement
(February 1, 1977)
Partant de la date prévue d'entrée en vigueur de l'Accord de Prêt (le ler
février 1977).
Çovember-19, 1976
Source: IBRD mission



CONGO
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
DISBURSEHENTS BY YEAR ANDv MAJOR CATe5ORY OF EXPENDITURE (USS mi llion)
DECAISSEFiNTS PAR ANNEE ET PAR CATEGORIE PRINCIPALE îmil1ions_de_$EU)
Category of Expenditure   Year/Annee                       1977                             1978                              1979                             1980                       1981
Cat4xories de Dépenses    Quarter/Trimestre   I          2       3      4        1       2        3        4        1       2       3      4        ]        2       3      4        1       2
I   Civil Works                  T     5.14             0.81   0.70   0.77    0.87    0.83    0.61    0.55
cénie Civil
F     2.83            0.44   0.38   0.42    0.49    0.45k   1.34    0.31
Il   Furniture                    T     0.41                            0.03    0.02    0.12    J.07    0.17
Mobilier
F     0.28                            0.02             0.10    0.05    0.11*
lII    Equipment                   T      2.17                   0.25   0.15    0.60    0.50    0.29    0.38
Equipement
F     1.96                    0.23   0.13    0.54    0.46    v.26*   0.34
IV   Technical Assistance         T      3.10                   0.05   0.13      0.20    0.26    0.30    0.24    0.30    0.30   0.23   0.23    0.22    0.23   0.13   0.13    0.08   0.07
Assistance Techitiquo
F     2.48                    0.04   0.11    0.16    0.21    0.24    0.19    0.24    0.24   0.18   0.18    0.18    0.18:'  0.10   0.11    0.06   0.06
V   Architectural Consultancy  T        0.21                                                                      0.07    0.14
Architectes Conseils
F     0.17                                                                       0.06    0.11*
VI   Project Administration       T      0.35    0.02   0.02   0.02   0.03       0.02    0.02    0.01    0.03       1.01    0.0!   0.02   0.04    0.01        0.02   0.02   0.02    0.02
Administration du Projet
F     0.24    0.01   0.01   0.01   0.02       0.01    0.02    0.01    0.02    0.01    0.01    0.02   0.03                 0.01*  0.02   0.01    0.02
Physical Contingencies &
Price Escalation**           T      2.82                                            0.35    0.8e    1.03               0.06                            00        . o.15   0.15    0.10   0.07
Imprevus quantitg et
Augmentation des prixtâw   F        1.92                                            0.19    0.50    0.70               0.05                             0.09   0.13   0.13    0.08   0.06
TOTAL (I - VI)               T     11.38    0.02   0.83    1.02   1.11    1.71    1.73    1.28        1.37    0.38    0.46   0.25   0.27    0.23        0.25   0.15   0.15    0.10   0.07
F     7.96    0.01   0.45   0.66   0.70    1,20    1.24    D.90    0.97    0.31    0.36   0.20   0.21    0.18   0.19    0.12   0.12    0.08   0.06
*  Funds in category exhausted.
* Epuisement des fonde de .a categorie.
** The forecast disbursements covering unforeseen factors and
price increases are reallocated to categories 1 - 6 during the course of
project implementation and are therefore not included in the column totals.
** Les décaissements estimés couvrant les imprevus
et l'augmentation des prix sont alloués aux categories 1 - 6 durant
l'exécution du projet et ne sont donc pas inclus dans le total.
September 10, 1976 m
Source:  IBRD missionu



CONGO
SEC:ND ',DUCATION PROJECT/DEUXIEME PROJET EDUCATION
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
CALENDRIER D'EXECUTION
1976                    1977                    1978                     1979                    1980                    1981
1    2    3    4        1    2    3    4        I    2    3    4        1    2    3    4         1    2    3    44
A.  Civil Works/Travaux de Génie Civil
1)  Primary Teachers Cellege/Ecole Normale                                                    t      *          +$   sXX  XXX  XXX    XXX  cx   XXX  XXV    VVVVVvvvVV
2)  ERxcatiosal Publications Unit/ Depc.  P-nC les Publications Educativex                   .*. c**  cc+    +=    xxx  xxx             xxv  vvv  vvv  vvv    vv
3)  Technical Teacher Training/Formation des Proifese.rs de l'ESxeigne.c.t T-ch.             -t                                          - ***  xxl +$=  v   vxx  xxvvv
4)  Forestry ScFhoo/Ecole Forestière                                                          **  ***  ***    xx    xc       x  xxx    xxxx   vvv  vvv  vvvv
B.  Furmiture and E           q uit/PiDilier et  sipe,sest
1)  Prisary TeacherS College/Ecole Normale                                                                                      +r      $==c
2)  Educatiosal Publications  Ucit/ Dept.  peur les 1'blicatioca  Educa tives                           v,      ± ++=              S    x
3)  Techeicel Teacher Trsinixg/FPrmatiom des Proicsces deI iEselgnement lCc.                              c    **+  +$s  =o xx Xvv V
4)  Forestry Schoxl/Ecxie Forestière                                                                            **v  *++  33=  =               x
5)  Educational Plamni.g/Plxeificatiox Scolaire +.=  =
C.  Technical Assistance/Assistance Techniqie
1)  Primary Teachers Collcge/Ecole Normale                                                                                                         00
2)  Educational Publications Unit/ Depc.  pour les Publications Educativex                                      556        000          ...  ...  ..x  ...    ...  000 .ox   ...    ...  ...
3)  Techmical Teacher Traixing/Formation des Pcxfesseurs de l'Enseignement Teci.                                     sus  xxx           xox  xDO  OOO  xxx    OOO  OOO  OOO  OOO    OOO  OOO  OcO  xxO
4)  Forestry School/Ecole ForeutiOre
5)  Edocational Planning/Planification Scolaire                                                                 ccx        Oas  000    000  xxx  cxc  000    xxx  xxx
D. Architectural Consulta ncy/Architectes Consiacanrt
5)  Educationa1 Planning (3rd Projeet Prep.)/Planification Scolaire (Prep. 3e Projet)                                                         xSS                OOO  ...
E.  Project Administretixe/Adlinistratixe du Projet                                                su  s    xxx    cxc  xxx  xxx             ..x xxx  ...  ...  xxx    xxx  ono  eux
LEGEND
Civil Works                                 Furniture and Equtpment          Technicol Assistasce. Architectural ConsultancY and Pro1ect Adsinistratixn
c  design period                                    C  eut.blishie.t of lists                            s  selection xf consxltants, specialists, and fellowship candidates
+  rexiew xf design asd bidding documents           +  review xf liets and bidding decceets              o  i-pleneetation phise
$  tendering xf bids                                $  tendering af bids
=  review of bids and award xf contracts            =  review of bids and a-ard of contracte
s  construction                                     c  delivery phase
v  guarantee phase                                  v  guarantee phase
Travaux  de Génie Civil                            Mobilier et Esuieemect            TssItnc T i           . Arcitecres Csn.ultamts et Admnistration du Prjet
*  établisse,smets des planm                        *  etablisseme.t5 des listes                         s  sélection des cxnsultasts. specialistes et candidat.  des bourses
+  eamsen des plans et documents d'appels           +  examen des listes et doeucents d'appels           o  période de réalisation
delffrea                                            dsffEes#
$  appels d'offres                                  $  appels d'offres
=  emasse  des offres et passatix- des marches   =  exaeen des offres et passation des marches                                                                                              c
s  estructioe  ex ..struction
v  période de garantie                              v  période de garastie
Septesber 24, 1976
Source: IBRD mission



CONGO
Structure of the Education System - 1975
AIDE INFIRMIERE
SAGES FEMMES OU
ASSISTANTS SOCIAUX
BAC.  Baccalauréat (BaccalaureatI                                                                               INFIRMIERS D'ETAT
SEMG: Brevet d'etudes Moyennes Générales Lo.er Secondary General
Certificat )
BEMT: Brevet d'Etudas Moyennes Techniques ILosser Secondcry Techn.cal
Certifiaste_                                                                                           INSTITUT NATIONAL DES SPORTS
CAIEP  Cwrtifîcat d'Aptitude à l'Enseignement Pr-maire                                _                                   N J
lCertificate of Competence in Pnimary School Supervision)
CEPP:  Centrt Eliémntiére de Formation Professionnelle (Vocational
Troining Centari
CEG:  Collège «Enseignement Général (Lover Secondary Schooll
CEPE:  Certificat d'Etudea Primaire Elémentaire liPrimary School
Certificate>
CET:  Collège d'Enseignement Technique Lower Secondarvy Technscal                     COURS NORMAUX
Sclsool>
CFP    Centre de Formation Pédagogique <Pedagogicai Train.ng Center,                               INSTITUTEUR ADJOINT
CP     Conseiller Pédagogique
COP    Centre d'Orientation Pratique
O       Cours pour adultes ou cours                                                                          INSTITUTEUR
a temps partiel ladult or part-time courses)
*        Enseignement normal Iteacher training) C>F P
c        'oncours d'entrée lentrance ..a ninationl
_  _     _        _      - ~~~L1CENCE &
_  _     7     _       T    ~~~~~CAIEP
SOCIOLOGUE
PSYCHOLOGUE
PSYCHOPED AGOGUE
_-j_               'ROFESSEUR
SECONDAIRE
ECOLES PRIMAIRES              CEPE               CE.G.          BEMG          LYCEES GEN.
t       s                2        {       }          M       J         4    [            £                                                             MAITRISE
CYCLE ELEM,   PREMIER CYCLE            DEUXIEME CYCLE                UNVRIPOM tE
C.E.FP.            C.ET         ~         LYCÉEEUNIVERSITAIRE
TECH N IOU                              au                                                 E                   1-  
ma
BEMT           BREVET    BAC 
CEPE                     EEMG OU BEMT
EDUCATION DES
3  -0 -01 {)  {)  i 0-s  o   zC}   0   {)      0-  o   é~   o    C   ADULTES
COURS D'ALPHABETISATION                           COLLEGE POPULAIRE                LYCEE POPULAIRE                 COURS
UNIVERSITAIRE
MARC4  OU TRAVAILPAR CORRESPONDANCE
MARCFIE OB TRAVAIL
Worid Sank-'16080






CONGO: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION, 1976
Pedagogicail    Pedagogicbl     Admmiai ratio n   Planmning      En rolilnments,   Litoraco        Remedial                Ftntional
Inspannion:     Inspection:                    tPlanning Unit)   Soamnratians      Trainmng        Educatnon             Dtpartments
Tnchnmnal       Generai                                                              ...          Ed-t-
Edwntion        Educ;tion                           EOtitotatron                                 
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PramioStuios n of  aI      
Ham Enondemis I                                                              ~5
Stulaion  a|                                          *
CONGO: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF VOCATIONAL AND HIGHER EDUCATION, CULTURE AND
ARTS, 1976
Mîniston
L I  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Doparttnnnt nL:i  Unptotntn C t      VocanoWd I                          1






CONGO: SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS PYRAMID, 1975
Boys                           Girls
Term4,s.                                                    267        i32f7                                ocNERAt.
1 ^,e                                                       ;  _       EX748                                SECONOARY SCHOOLS
i                                            4389                  189
7811                                     4018
4 à,,,                                  se-                                           4823
t    "'                      4091 S9                                                 3«ne                         ~~~~~~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11952|  _      75ES
gr  -86-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           THOUSANDS
88863                                                                           1510                           5               a              5              5              1
Boys                                 Girls
1982    28
3587r                                       _'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                   40506                                  s
rrer8in^e                                                    3987     884                                                H                         6                                                                                UNIVERSITY
ère                                                    4311    1067                                                  11                                5                                                130
CAPACI7E EN DROIT H                                              4                                                        O 7
2 m-                                                   S72              182 _                                            AAIEtVfIII1                                                    5 z 2                                                  HUNDREDS
2tn èfl                                             8394345                                                                              _z
4 ère                                               41                         32                                                        F                                                                                  97 US-PROPE90IONA~L SCHOOLS
4m91|3 2'275              LlS159                   (FORESTRY, HEALTH,SPORTSI
S re                                         1248|                                7-12                                                        ..                                                               ES
2              Il             ài
S cre-                                   14b38                                        10579                                                                                              73           78
PRtIMARY
CM2                          22479t                                                   115789                                                                                                                   HUNOREOS 37        TEACHER TRAINING
{  I   X   i   }                                                eme                                    g        6      7          x ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-HUNDREDS
CMI                                                                                            175451                                                                                                         1
CE2                       240                                                                     1936350                                                                                               2
CE1      3       0642                                                                                        24 380                                                                                                                               TECHNICAL
51                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCI-OOL
CP2              2997                                                                                       2667                             604                                                                                        13
3    34
CPI  783275134
CP1  38327| 1 _ I a 35540 6 eme {_ 7g w 7ffi/<»///@,7/////»Z/»//0 & »S//////g3|4 I HUNDREDS~~HUNDRED
40             30             20            1D                             10             20              30             40              3              2               il                                            2               a
THOUSANDS
PRIMARY SCHOOLS                               TECHNICAL EDUCATION                                          SU3 PROFESSIMONAL SCHlOOLS                                                SOTRCE:             PriPsri  &
TOTAL             W..~~Scod.l Ed.citi.n
UNIVERSITY                                    TEACHER TRAINING (Pr,rrryl                                   SECONDARY SCHOOLS
World Bank-16016






IBRD 12284R
12°                                                         14°                                      \           C         1> tR  A L   AFRICAN F                                                     1976
C  A  M  E  R 0   O  N                                                                                            A                                R    P    r
KB /                                                 b
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                        j        oOfk              For So 6    .j-.o                                                                                      Dongou 
|                            C v                                 \   S ~~~A  N  G                                                                           Er                   p             ,,
__!                                                                                                    `                                      / oendOo                                              --                                  20
b.                 V   X   Mb$;        _                   g             t          ' . t          oLLI
G                A              B              O               N                !                  Eturb   =-
The   00060J0000    opd                                                                                                            McOcu            O            4.o and
Th, bon-d-C-el' Rh-wn          h   6e n
ki                        A F R I  A A
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rS \^                                                                                               .\g             I Z SD    I  1  5 D
i37  \        M        o    c     n     O >    >                {           (J//        ( >         s              os)  /                         (I LOM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K,CETE PS
mold.                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CONGO 
SECOND
EDUCATION PROJECT
RMAIS CIIESr PORTS
t                         XSTERS~~',l"ATIONAL BOINDORIES
cm  ymû                                                            R~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIES   VIAO~1LE: ALL  'le VR
!______         10 J   ` So y m= R AVISALE PART OF T7E YEi
F0d    i n         c        ,        o         -       v    n0j00                                                                        PR IM MRT  O ACOE S   COLLEGE
RIRS' FDUCAT;IOS ~RROOIRT
(cR-370)                            OCATIO1AL TRAIfl1NG  EENTER
-K  di  1.                                                                                                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e SNERA.  SEN1IO    -.COS-0   OCH--
RIPA~RI  T ACER          505E
À        TECHNICAL T'AChER  T AIlSAG F005R00
E       .Eo LCATIO  1O PROJECT1
NOIRE               TO       C'B'\jro op                                                -         -



