CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1349 COB
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Education Project)
between
THE PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 5, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 5, 1977, between THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF THE CONGO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "First Education Project" means the education project of
the Borrower described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated March 26,
1971 (Credit No. 237-COB);
(b) "Project Unit" means the project unit referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(c) "MEPS" means the Borrower's Ministry of Primary and
Secondary Education;
(d) "MESCA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Higher Educa-
tion;


﻿-3-
(e) "INRAP" means the National Institute for Pedagogical
Research and Action, a public agency organized pursuant to the
Borrower's Decree No. 75/303 dated June 24, 1975 and Decision No.
00l6/PCT-SCC-DECAS dated July 10, 1975;
(f) "INSSED" means the In=titut Superieur des Sciences
de 1'Education of the University of Brazzaville established
pursuant to the Borrower's Ordannance No. 29/71 dated December 4,
1971, as amended from time to time;
(g) "ONLP" means Office National des Librairies Populaires,
a public bookstore organization organized pursuant to the Bor-
rower's Decree No. 68/10 dated January 9, 1968; and
(h) "Imprimerie Nationale" means the Borrower's national
printing office.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million
dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the
principal amoun.- of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower sall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, educational, architectural and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without any restriction or limitation upon the foregoing,
in carrying out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall make
appropriate budgetary allocations for additional staff required
by the educational publications unit within INRAP and Imprimerie
Nationale for the timely production of textbooks and educational
materials.
(c) Not later than June 30, 1977, or such other date as the
parties to this Agreement shall agree, the Borrower shall enact
legislation required for the establishment, within its INSSED, of
the technical teacher training department included in Part A.3
of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of overall management and
coordination in the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall
maintain and expand the Project Unit established under the First
Education Project and invest it with such responsibilities and
powers as are specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, under the
direction of a Project Director.


﻿-7-
(b) The Project Director shall be assisted inter alios on
a full-time basis by a Coordinator, an Education Adviser, a Proj-
ect Architect and a Project Engineer, whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall provide the Project Unit at all times
with such qualified and experienced supporting kLaff, services,
facilities and other resources as shall be required for the effi-
cient operation thereof.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in the prepara-
tion of a possible future education project, the Borrower shall,
as and when needed, employ architectural consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. Prior to the commencement of construction of
Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause INRAP and ONLP
to enter into arrangements acceptable to the Bank, setting forth
inter alia: (i) methods and periods of reimbursement by ONLP to
INRAP for textbooks and educational materials provided by the
education publications unit within INRAP and sold by ONLP, and (ii)
assurances that prices to be charged by ONLP for such textbooks
and materials shall be determined in agreement with INRAP until a
pricing policy shall have been adopted by the Borrower pursuant to
Section 4.05 of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, for
the purposes of Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall:


﻿- 8 -
(a) employ specialists whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank in accordance with the provisions of the Exhibit to Schedule 2
to this Agreement and promptly assign to such specialists counter-
parts selected after consultation with the Bank; and
(b) award fellowships to qualified persons for enrollment in
training programs acceptable to the Bank and require fellowship
recipients to serve at least two years in the positions for which
they shall have been trained.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall appoint qualified nationals
to serve in teaching and administrative positions in the institu-
tions included in Part A of the Project and, when such nationals
are not available, shall promptly submit to appropriate multilateral
or bilateral sources its request for the services of qualified per-
sonnel to serve in such positions.
Section 3.07. With respect to the forestry school included in
Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1977, or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree:
(a) enact legislation required for the establishment of said
school;
(b) adopt statutes relating to its operating rules acceptable
to the Borrower and the Bank;
(c) establish curricula and a staffing plan acceptable to
the Borrower and the Bank; and


﻿- 9 -
(d) furnish proposals to the Bank on the nature and applica-
tion of incentives for staff recruitment and retention.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction work and procurement schedules
for buildings and facilities included in the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to


﻿- 10 -
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire, as and when required, all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construc-
tion of the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿- 12 -
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall adequately maintain, or
cause to be maintained, the buildings, equipment and furniture
of the institutions included in the Project and the equipment of
Imprimerie Nationale for the printing of textbooks and educa-
tional materials and make, or cause to be made, all necessary re-
pairs and renewals thereof in accordance with appropriate admini-
strative and technical standards.


﻿- 13 -
Section 4.04. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall, through the planning units of MEPS
and MESCA, not later than January 1, 1979, formulate and furnish
to the Bank for its review and comments: (i) the outline of a long-
term plan for the organization and. development of education and
training; and (ii) within the framework of this plan, a more de-
tailed three to five year program and, as part of it, proposals
for investment projects; and
(b) in order to ensure coordination between the planning
units of MEPS and MESCA and to provide overall direction for the
specialists' services rendered to these planning units, the Bor-
rower shall establish, not later than June 30, 1977, an inter-
ministerial planning committee consisting of the Ministers and
Directors of relevant agencies, inter alia, MEPS, MESCA, the
Borrower's Ministry of Planning and INRAP. Such committee shall
convene periodically and as needed each year.
Section 4.05. While aiming at a wide distribution of textbooks
and educational materials, the Borrower shall continue ensuring
sufficient funds, respectively required by INRAP and ONLP for carry-
ing out their publications and sales activities, through a price
and subsidization policy to be adopted not later than January 1,
1979, or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree,
and to be thereafter annually reviewed.


﻿- 1~4 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date August 3, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ninister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances de la R'publique
Populaire du Congo
Brazzaville
BP 1183
Republique Populaire du Congo
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFINANCES                      PRESICONGO
Brazzaville - Republique          52 10 KG
Populaire du Congo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
By /s/ Nicolas Mondjo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                                  55%
(a) Part A.1, Part        2,250,000
A.3 and Part
A.4 of the Proj-
ect
(b) Part A.2 of the          50,000
Project
(2) Furniture                    190,000         70%
(3) Equipment and Mate-        1,600,000
rials
(a) directly im-                           100% of foreign
ported                                 expenditures
(b) locally pro-                           90%
cured
(4) Technical Assistance:      2,100,000        80%
Specialists' Ser-
vices and Fellow-
ships


﻿- 18 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Catel                  Dollar Eq-uivalent)   to be Financed
(5) Consultants' Ser-            120,000          80%
vices for Part
B.2 of the Project
(6) Project Administra-          190,000         70%
tion
(7) Unallocated                1,500,000
TOTAL      8,000,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the ter-
ritory of any country other than the Borrower; provided, however,
that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another coun-
try from the territory of which goods or services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be
deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b) expenditures included in Category (1) (b) until the Bor-
rower has furnished evidence to the Bank that INRAP and ONLP have
entered into arrangements acceptable to the Bank pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.04 of this Agreement.


﻿- 20 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category or sub-Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category or sub-Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category or sub-Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category or sub-Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category or sub-Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category or sub-Category is inconsis-
tent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restrict-
ing or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eli-
gible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Construction, furnishing and equipping of the following
institutions, as detailed in paragraph A of the Exhibit to this
Schedule:
1.   a primary teacher training college at Ovando;
2.   an educational publications -ait within INRAP;
3.   a technical teacher training department at INSSED in
Brazzaville; and
4.   a forestry school at Mossendjo with a field station
at Onesso.
Part B:   Technical Assistance and Consultants' Services
1.   The provision of approximately 33 man-years of specialists'
services and 47 man-years of fellowships for the insti-
tutions referred to in Part A above and for the planning
units of MEPS and MESCA, as detailed in paragraph B of
the Exhibit to this Schedule.


﻿- 22 -
2.   The provision of architectural consultants' services
for the preparation of a possible future education
project.
Part C:
Staffing and equipment for, and operating of, the Project
Unit; and equipment for the planning units of MEPS and MESCA.
*              *              *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 23 -
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
A.   List of Institutions
Approximate                           Approximate
Total     Approximate Approximate     Total
Enrollment    Boarding      Staff     Constructin
Capacity      Places      Houses      Area in m
Primary Teacher
Training College
at Owando             320          320         12         4,981
Educational Publi-
cations Unit within
INRAP                                                       650
Technical Teacher
Training Department
at INSSED             120          120         1          2,549
Forestry School at
Mossendjo with a
Field Station at
Ouesso                 50           50         1         1,026
B.   Technical Assistance
Approximate
Man-Years
I.   Specialists' Services
(1) Primary Teacher Training College
Assistant to the Director in program
administration and organization of
practice teaching                                    3


﻿24  -I
Approximate
Man-Years
(2) Educational Publications Unit
(a) Adviser to the Director in educational
publishing                                        3
(b) Editorial adviser                                 2
(3) Technical Teacher Training Department
Specialists in:
(a) planning and administration of technical
teacher training                                  3
(b) methodology of technical teacher training         2
(c) methodology of commercial teacher training        2
(h) Forestry School
(a) Assistant to the Director, specialist
in administration                                 3
(b) Specialist in forest exploitation and
production                                        3
(c) Specialist in silviculture                        3
(d) Specialist in wood industries and wood
transformation                                    3
(5) Planning Units of MEPS and MESCA
(a) Educational planner and planning
coordinator                                       1-1/2
(b) Economist and manpower planner                    1
(c) Specialist in technical education and
vocational training                               1


﻿- 25
Approximate
Man-Years
(d) Specialist in agricultural education and
training                                           1
(e) Specialist in women's training programs             1
(f) Specialists' services for the preparation
of a possible future education project             1/2
II. Fellowships
(1) Educational Publications Unit
(a) about 2-3 staff for production and                  4
composition
(b) about 5 staff for general and art editing           6
(c) about 5 staff for research and curriculum           5
(2) Technical Teacher Trainin Deartment
(a) about 4 staff for technical upgrading and
teacher training
(b) technical school administration                    1
(c) educational technology                             2
(d) audiovisual techniques, methods and
equipment                                         2
(3) Forestry School
About 4 staff for technical upgrading and
teacher training                                       9
(4) Planning Units of MEPS and MESCA
About 9 staff for training and upgrading in
educational planning                                  14


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning September 15, 1981
Through March 15, 1996                           260,ooo
On September 15, 1996                                 200,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 27 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more thai three years
before maturity                          1.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          2.60%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                          6.95%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                          7.85%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8.70%


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the purchase
of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   (a) Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
(b) Items of furniture, equipment and materials required
for the Project shall be grouped so as to permit such bulk pro-
curement as shall be consistent with sound technical and procure-
ment practices. Contracts for such items shall be for at least
$50,000 equivalent each.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Furniture, equipment and materials which cannot be grouped
into packages of at least $50,000 equivalent shall be procured on
the basis of competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 29 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Congo may be granted a margin of prefer-
ence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Grout A: bids offering goods manufactured in Congo
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Congo equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.


﻿- 30 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Congo.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 31 -
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Some civil works for Part A.4 of the Project may be carried
out on force account by the Centre Forestier of Mossendjo under
the supervision of the Project Unit.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said proce-
dure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification,
shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its comments be-
fore the applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and
the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modi-
fications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of lists of items of furniture, equipment and materials.
Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
for its approval, a list of all items of furniture, equipment and
materials, indicating their specifications and estimated unit and
total prices, indexed, coded and numbered to identify the institu-
tions and spaces for which they are required. Amendments to such
lists which may be made from time to time shall also be submitted
to the Bank for approval. Procurement shall be limited to those
items of furniture, equipment and materials, which are specified
in such lists and which shall be identified in contract documents
by such indexes, codes and numbers as in such lists.


﻿- 32 -
3.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for (i) civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and (ii) furniture,
equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rover shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 33 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
4.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿- 3~4 -
SCHEDULE 5
The Project Unit
1.   The Project Unit shall be under the jurisdiction of MESCA for
budgetary purposes and shall report to both MEPS and MESCA for
other purposes.
2.   In addition to its responsibilities under the First Education
Project, the Project Unit shall be responsible, and have the neces-
sary powers, for the execution of the Project, including inter alia:
(a) overall management of the Project;
(b) coordination and integration of all Project activities
with the Borrower's ministries, departments and agencies involved
in the Project;
(c) design, planning and supervision of the construction of
the Project institutions;
(d) preparation of a comprehensive Project implementation
schedule based on network analysis or other satisfactory method
for setting down the planned timetable of coordinated activities
and responsibilities on which the carrying out of all aspects of
the Project will be based;
(e) arrangements in coordination with the relevant ministries,
departments and agencies for the selection of specialists under


﻿- 35 -
Part B of the Project and administration of contracts with such
specialists;
(f) drawing up, signing and administering up to two man-years
of short-term contracts for the utilization of specialists' services
under Part B of the Project;
(g) arrangements for the preparation and collection of data
for an evaluation of the Project;
(h) coordination and communications with the Bank on matters
relating to the execution of the Project; and
(i) supervision of the preparation of a possible future proj-
ect.
3.   The responsibilities of the Project Unit staff under the First
Education Project shall continue under this Project. Furthermore,
the Project Engineer shall assist the Project Architect in the
preparation of plans, reports, specifications and bidding documents,
the analysis of bids and the regular inspection of all construction
work.


