Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3180 
 
Project Name 
Chile Promoting Innovation and Competitiveness 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sectors 
General industry and trade sector (80%); General public 
administration (15%); Tertiary Education (5%) 
Project ID 
P082927 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Chile 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
May 25, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 12, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
February 22, 2008 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Chile has been the fastest growing economy in Latin America since 1990 with an average annual 
per capital growth rate of 4.1 percent. The impressive performance of the economy owes much 
to a strong institutional framework, exemplary monetary policies and deep integration into the 
global economy. Due to strong growth Chile has made notable progress towards the goal of 
convergence with OECD economies. The income gap, however, remains sizeable. Per capita 
income in Chile (adjusted for purchasing power parity) is currently less than 40 percent of the 
OECD average leaving ample room for further catch-up in relative living standards.  
 
The Asian financial crises of the late 1990s revealed vulnerabilities of the Chilean economy to 
external shocks in part due to shortcomings in productivity and economic diversification. Chile 
has advanced in sectors such as forestry, fresh fruit and seafood but remains highly dependent on 
the export of unprocessed natural resources, notably copper. Growth deceleration in 2006 has 
also raised concerns that Chile may have started to exhaust previous sources of growth.  
 
Chile will need fast and sustained growth to reduce poverty, continue improving living 
standards, and close the income gap with the lower tier of advanced economies by 2020. The 
perception of sound macroeconomic management is now well entrenched. Chile is the only 
sovereign borrower in Latin America, other than Mexico, to enjoy an investment-grade credit 
rating. Hence, Chile is in a favorable position to focus on microeconomic reforms aimed at 
boosting the capacity of firms to sustain productivity growth and develop new business 
opportunities. Evidence from successful economies such as Australia and Finland suggests that 
boosting Chile’s capacity to innovate should be at the center of such reforms. According to the 
literature, half of all differences in income and growth is attributable to differences in total factor 
Page  2
productivity (TFP), generally associated with technological development, innovation, and the 
investment climate. 
 
Table 1. Indicators of STI and cost of doing business  
Country 
R&D/GDP 
(%) 
R&D per capita 
(US$) 
FTE 
Researchers 
per 1000 
economically 
active persons 
USPTO patents 
granted per mill. 
Population 
Private R&D as 
percent of total 
Ease of doing 
business (rank) 
Cost of starting 
a
business (% 
of income per 
capita) 
Australia 
1.77 
573 
8.4 
143.6 
51.6 
8
1.8 
Canada 
1.95 
675 
7.4 
267.4 
46.7 
4
0.9 
Chile 
0.70 
39 
2.2 
3.4 
45.8 
28 
9.8 
China 
1.44 
79 
0.7 
1.6 
62.4 
93 
132 
Finland 
2.26 
1
,091 
16.5 
387.3 
69.3 
14 
1.1 
India 
0.85 
20 
0.1 
1.3 
23.0 
134 
88 
Spain 
1.12 
304 
5.7 
16.2 
48.0 
39 
16.2 
United States 
2.68 
1,063 
9.6 
701.3 
63.7 
3
0.7 
Source: RICYT (2007), OECD (2006), USPTO (2007), UNESCO (2007) and World Bank (2007)
 
Chile has made considerable progress in creating a favorable investment and regulatory 
environment. With regard to the Ease of Doing Business, the World Bank (2007) ranked Chile as 
28th out of 175 countries, ahead of several OECD countries. Nonetheless, there are several 
regulatory and infrastructure areas where Chile needs to make additional improvements to 
further reduce the cost of doing business, especially for small and medium enterprises. In the 
area of science, technology and innovation (STI), Chile has made gains over the last decade but 
continues to lag substantially advanced economies with respect to most STI indicators. On some 
indicators Chile also falls behind dynamic economies with lower GDP per capita such as China 
and India (Table 1). Several factors explain 
Chile’s low performance relative to more advanced 
economies: 
 
Chile’s institutional framework for innovation lacks policy direction and strategic goals
.
Diverse 
studies and assessments have warned about the lack of an overall policy framework, coherent 
organizational structure and policy coordination in Chile’s national innovation system. Several 
ministries – including the Ministries of Economy, Education, Planning, Agriculture and Foreign 
Affairs – are involved in the formulation of STI policies, the design of programs and the 
management of research in Chile (Box 1). As a consequence, Chile has a wide array of 
uncoordinated policies and programs for R&D and for technology diffusion with significant 
overlap between content and objectives. For instance, coordination between Chile’s two key 
implementing agencies the Chilean Science and Technology Council (CONICYT) and the 
Chilean Development Agency (CORFO) is weak. Support for team-based research, which could 
potentially have a high impact, is also fragmented among various institutions that follow 
different principles and strategic priorities for allocating funding, a problem even observed 
within CONICYT. Fragmentation reduces the effectiveness of public expenditures, results in 
duplication and leads to excessive diffusion of programs including to some areas with relatively 
low social rates of return.  
Page  3
Box 1. 
Chile’s support system for innovation
 
Universities
Ministry of Economy
Inter-ministerial Cabinet on Innovation
President
InnovaChile
C
ONICYT
CORFO
Sectoral funds
FONDECYT
PBCT
FONDEF
Individuals
Technology Institutes
E
nterprises
FIA
MSI-MIDEPLAN
Etc.
Line Ministries
M
inistry of Education
National Innovation Council
Policy 
making and 
coordination
Implementing
agencies
Innovation
support
programs
Beneficiaries
Universities
Ministry of Economy
Inter-ministerial Cabinet on Innovation
President
InnovaChile
C
ONICYT
CORFO
Sectoral funds
FONDECYT
PBCT
FONDEF
Individuals
Technology Institutes
E
nterprises
FIA
MSI-MIDEPLAN
Etc.
Line Ministries
M
inistry of Education
National Innovation Council
Policy 
making and 
coordination
Implementing
agencies
Innovation
support
programs
Beneficiaries
Need to build capacity in the Ministry of Economy for managing innovation and microeconomic 
policies
.
Shortly after the approval of the National Innovation Strategy prepared by the National 
Innovation Council in February 2007, the Government formed an inter-ministerial cabinet on 
innovation tasked with the responsibility of formulating STI policies, giving orientation to 
Chile’s support system for innovation and addressing problems of fragmentation and overlap. 
The Cabinet is led by the Minister of Economy and comprises the Ministers of Finance and 
Education. The Ministry of Economy functions as the secretariat of the Cabinet and is 
responsible for implementing its decisions in coordination with other line ministries. The 
Ministry of Economy is also tasked with the formulation, implementation, and evaluation of 
policies concerning the development of the productive and export sectors as well as market 
regulation and competition. The Ministry of Economy will need a strong capacity to set the 
policy agenda, monitor the impact of innovation and microeconomic policies and hold 
implementing agencies accountable for results, a capacity that it currently does not possess. A 
major institutional strengthening effort is thus required to enhance its capacity. 
 
Chile's stock of human capital for innovation and technology management is low. 
One of the 
most important barriers to innovation in Chile is the insufficient level of advanced human capital 
and the low number of young researchers working in private companies. Chilean universities 
have limited tradition of stimulating entrepreneurship or linkages with industries. Most of the 
researchers have few incentives to orient their career towards broad-based objectives, which 
could include training in disciplines such as business and technology management. Moreover, 
young researchers tend to stay in the public sector, working either for government research 
institutes or universities. The concentration of researchers in the public sector reflects negatively 
on the capacity of private firms to innovate and absorb knowledge. 
 
Public-private research linkages remain timid.
 
Chile’s public R&D system has been successful 
in the sense that Chile scores higher than other Latin American countries in terms of scientific 
publications per resident. Still, the added value of this research remains questionable and has 
Page  4
been of limited use to the private sector, directly or indirectly. In recent years successful public-
private research partnerships have emerged in Chile, for example, initiatives supported by the 
FONDEF program under CONICYT. The World Bank has also collaborated with Chile in 
strengthening university-industry collaboration through the Science for the Knowledge Economy 
APL1 (2003-2007). The project launched a number of collaborative research consortia in which 
public and private partners work together on pre-competitive R&D (see Annex 1). There is a 
need to scale up such cross-sectoral interactions and to make them more systematic and 
effective. An on-going study of the World Bank shows that firms partnering with universities 
spend almost twice as much on R&D, engage in more product and process innovation, and have 
higher labor productivity growth.  
 
Inadequate mechanisms for transferring technology to SMEs.
 Small and medium size enterprises 
in Chile account for roughly 95% of the total employment. Hence, SME development is at the 
heart of enhancing Chile’s innovative potential and ability to assimilate and exploit existing 
knowledge. There is little experience of collaborative technology development in Chile that is 
led by the private sector and substantially funded by them. CORFO has supported the formation 
of business networks for technology transfer but this initiative is not well articulated with other 
programs nor is it tailored to the specific needs of firms in priority sectors of the economy. 
Evidence from countries such as Spain and Ireland suggests that Chile would benefit from a 
broad vision of innovation which includes the development of a coherent framework for 
technology services targeting SMEs. 
 
Weak incentives and insufficient support for technology based start-up companies
.
There has 
been a wide range of initiatives implemented to foster the growth of new firms in sectors with 
high growth potential, including the development of university based incubators, early stage 
funds and shared cost grant schemes aimed at technology upgrading in SMEs. Yet, there are 
concerns that the impact of some of them has been weak (e.g., incubators) and that there are gaps 
within the value chain faced by start-up companies. 
 
Government strategy 
Innovation is a top priority in Chile’s competitiveness agenda. In November 2005 the Lagos 
Government set up a high-level Commission to prepare the ground for the formulation of a 
national strategy for innovation and competitiveness. In its final report from March 2006 the 
Commission recommended the establishment of a permanent National Innovation Council 
responsible for strategy formulation and providing policy advice to the executive. In May 2006, 
President Michelle Bachelet formed such a Council with broad stakeholder representation—the 
research community, private sector, innovation experts, and government representatives. The 
Council presented a first volume of a National Innovation Strategy in January 2007, which was 
endorsed by President Bachelet shortly thereafter. The strategy underscores that becoming a 
knowledge economy means adding value to sectors where Chile has demonstrated comparative 
advantages while supporting key emerging sectors. 
 
The strategy has a 15-year horizon and is comprehensive in its approach.
1
Its key elements are to 
1
The strategy’s key benchmarks by the end of the 15-year period are to reduce the weight of Chile’s top 25 exports 
to no more than 50 percent of total exports; to increase the participation of young adults (ages 18-24) in tertiary 
education from the current 43 percent to 80 percent in 15 years; to raise R&D as percentage of GDP from the current 
Page  5
(i) build a strong platform for human capital that will substantially expand tertiary education, 
especially in technical areas, and will support the formation of highly specialized human capital 
in STI; (ii) enhance research capacity, with an emphasis on applied research; (iii) foster 
innovation within enterprises 
inter alia
 through the development of stronger interfaces with 
research groups and new models to promote technology transfer; (iv) generate a pro-active 
culture of innovation within Chile’s society; (v) set in place a robust governance structure for the 
innovation system; and (vi) build regional STI capacity in areas linked to their economic 
specialization. The established Inter-ministerial Cabinet on Innovation supported by the Ministry 
of Economy will lead and oversee the strategy’s implementation. 
 
In 2006, the government also launched 
Chile Compite
,
another key pillar of the competitiveness 
agenda, which seeks to boost productivity and employment creation. Key initiatives include 
simplifying the regulatory framework for SMEs, such as reducing procedures for registering new 
firms, preparing a special statute for SMEs, revising the tax regime, and improving the 
bankruptcy framework. The government recognizes the importance of strengthening the Ministry 
of Economy given its leadership roles in coordinating the competitiveness and innovation 
agendas.
 
Rationale for Bank involvement 
Over the last few years, the World Bank has assisted the Government of Chile in the innovation 
and competitiveness areas through policy advice (e.g., the preparation of a Strategy to Promote 
Innovative SMEs (2004), an Investment Climate Assessment (2006), and the Development 
Policy Review (2006)) and support for an investment project – 
the Science for the Knowledge 
Economy Project.
 The project, which was implemented by CONICYT, was conceived as a two-
stage APL considering that testing new instruments in the innovation system involves a learning 
process and an incubation process before new instruments can be consolidated. The APL1 was 
satisfactorily implemented and closed at the end of March 2007 as originally envisaged (See 
Annex 1 for a summary of key results).  
 
The Government of Chile has requested a new investment project to foster Innovation and 
Competitiveness. The project would build on the aforementioned APL1 but would have a wider 
set of objectives to accommodate Chile’s more ambitious new policy vision. It would support 
key elements of the national innovation and competitiveness strategies with a strong emphasis on 
building robust institutional foundations. The Government regards the World Bank as a strategic 
partner due to its expertise in the innovation and competitiveness areas, knowledge of a wide 
range of international experiences such as OECD and Asia, and the capacity to help adapt 
international practices and instruments to Chile’s reality and needs. 
 
The proposed project is fully aligned with the goals of the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS). 
In particular, it will support the objective of converging with OECD income levels and living 
standards by accelerating sustainable growth through increases in total factor productivity. The 
proposed project would have strong synergies with other Bank interventions aimed at increasing 
Chile’s innovation capacity, in particular the Tertiary Education Finance for Results APL1. 
0.68 percent to 2.32 percent with the private sector leading the way by the end of the period; and improve Chile’s 
World Competitiveness raking in the areas of innovation, technology sophistication of enterprises, and education 
and skills.  
Page  6
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The project’s main development objective would be to strengthen Chile’s capacity to compete in 
the knowledge economy, by enhancing the policy and institutional framework for innovation and 
competitiveness, improving the impact of priority innovation programs, and supporting key 
interfaces in the innovation system. In particular, the project would seek this objective by: (i) 
strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Economy to formulate, implement and 
evaluate innovation and competitiveness policies; (ii) improving the quality of research in Chile 
and enhancing public-private research linkages; and (iii) stimulating technology transfer and the 
creation of new technology based enterprises. 
 
Progress towards meeting the development objectives will be measured by a number of process, 
output and impact indicators, which will be further identified during project preparation. 
Indicators for the project are expected to include: (i) Percentage of public funds for STI allocated 
through performance agreements negotiated between the Ministry of Economy and 
implementing agencies; (ii) Trained staff in the Ministry of Economy; (iii) studies conducted that 
have impacted innovation and competitiveness policies; (iv) Number of national R&D indicators 
collected using realizable international methodologies; (v) Citation impact factor of ISI 
publications authored by Chilean researchers; (vi) Number of project-supported researchers 
inserted into industry; (vii) Proportion of variable costs of supported technology centers 
generated by the sale of services; and (viii) Number of technology-based companies incubated 
with support from the project. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The project would contribute to the objective of strengthening Chile’s capacity to compete in the 
knowledge economy through three components: (i) strengthening the Ministry of Economy, (ii) 
strengthening the effectiveness of research and linkages across the system, and (iii) promoting 
technology transfer and new ventures. 
 
The Ministry of Economy would oversee overall project implementation in coordination with the 
Inter-ministerial Cabinet on Innovation and would be responsible for implementing Component 
I. CONICYT and CORFO would implement components I and II, respectively in accordance 
with performance agreements negotiated with Ministry of Economy. 
 
Component 1. Strengthening the Ministry of Economy 
This component would enhance the capacity of the Ministry of Economy to formulate, 
implement and evaluate innovation and competitiveness policies. The first subcomponent would 
develop a new vision and organizational structure for the Ministry that will allow it to undertake 
its functions in a more effective manner, facilitate coordination of innovation and 
microeconomic policies with other ministries, and strengthen oversight of agencies reporting to 
the Ministry.
2
The second subcomponent would strengthen the Ministry’s capacity to formulate 
and implement policies and programs. In the short-run, priority would be given to strengthening 
2
The program will cover the Department of Economy that is responsible for microeconomic and innovation policies 
but will not cover the Department of Fisheries under the Ministry since it involves a distinct set of policy matters. 
Page  7
the ministry’s policy-making capacity in the innovation area. The third subcomponent would 
support the development of a monitoring and evaluation directorate (“Observatory”) as an 
independent unit in the Ministry of Economy, responsible for providing sound indicators and 
evaluating policies and programs on innovation and other key areas to promote competitiveness. 
The fourth subcomponent would include a fund to pilot new initiatives and programs in the 
innovation area. The fund would be administered by the Ministry of Economy in coordination 
with the Inter-Ministerial Cabinet. 
 
Component 2 
–
Strengthening the effectiveness of research and linkages across the system 
This component would seek to strengthen the impact of research programs and linkages across 
the innovation system. The first subcomponent would provide a coherent support structure for 
team-based research in Chile by integrating all existing programs 
–
including eventually the 
Millennium Science Initiative in the Ministry of Planning – within a new department in 
CONICYT, setting common standards, and redefining priorities according to the national 
innovation strategy. The process of integration would involve a redefinition of CONICYT’s 
organizational structure. The second subcomponent would consolidate public-private linkage 
activities launched in the APL1 within CONICYT and scale up priority programs such as the 
insertion of young researchers in industry. Finally, the third subcomponent would enhance 
CONICYT’s capacity to monitor implementation and assess the impact of its programs. This will 
be achieved by strengthening the Department of Studies in CONICYT, e.g. by transferring staff 
responsible for statistics and studies under the Observatory for STI piloted in the APL1. 
 
Component 3: 
Promoting technology transfer and new ventures 
 
This component would seek to promote technology transfer and new ventures and strengthen the 
effectiveness of 
Innova Chile
 under CORFO in accordance with a broad policy framework for 
promoting innovation that will be developed by the Ministry of Economy in coordination with 
CORFO and other agencies. The first subcomponent would seek to promote new enterprise 
developments in sectors with high growth potential by reviewing (i) 
Innova Chile’s
 overall 
approach to new firm formation to foster a coherent framework with clear articulation and 
sequencing of support programs, and (ii) supporting 
Innova Chile
 and other stakeholders to 
develop a network of well functioning technology incubators including some related to cluster 
priorities. The second subcomponent would strengthen various models for technology transfer to 
enterprises, especially SMEs, such as industrial technology centers and the development of 
technology brokers working across the national innovation system. The third subcomponent 
would enhance 
InnovaChile’s capacity to monitor, implement, and assess the impact of its 
programs.  
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
No safeguard policy issues have been identified. As was the case of the APL1, the project is 
expected to have a neutral or positive impact on the environment. Only research projects and 
programs that are environmentally sound will receive funding. 
Page  8
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 10 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
25 
 Total 
35 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Esperanza Lasagabaster 
Title: Sr. Economist, LCSFR 
Tel: (202) 473-2880 
Fax: (202) 522-0050 
Email: 
elasagabaster@worldbank.org
Contact: Kristian Thorn 
Title: Education Specialist, LCSHE 
Tel: (202) 473-8347 
Fax: (202) 522-0050 
Email: 
kthorn@worldbank.org
