Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC3035 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/15/2007 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Chile 
Project ID: P082927 
Project Name: CL: Promoting Innovation and Competitiveness Project 
Task Team Leader: Esperanza Lasagabaster 
Estimated Appraisal Date: November 12, 
2007 
Estimated Board Date: February 22, 2008 
Managing Unit: LCSHE 
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector: General industry and trade sector (80%);General public administration sector 
(15%);Tertiary education (5%) 
Theme: Regulation and competition policy (P);Small and medium enterprise support 
(S);Education for the knowledge economy (S);Technology diffusion (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
25.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
10.00
10.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The project’s main development objective would be to strengthen Chile’s capacity to compete in 
the knowledge economy, by enhancing the policy and institutional framework for innovation and 
competitiveness, improving the impact of priority innovation programs, and supporting key 
interfaces in the innovation system. In particular, the project would seek this objective by: (i) 
strengthening the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Economy to formulate, implement and 
evaluate innovation and competitiveness policies; (ii) improving the quality of research in Chile 
and enhancing public-private research linkages; and (iii) stimulating technology transfer and the 
creation of new technology based enterprises.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The project would contribute to the objective of strengthening Chile’s capacity to compete in the 
knowledge economy through three components: (i) strengthening the Ministry of Economy, (ii) 
strengthening the effectiveness of research and linkages across the system, and (iii) promoting 
technology transfer and new ventures.  
Page  2
Component 1. Strengthening the Ministry of Economy  
 
This component would enhance the capacity of the Ministry of Economy to formulate, 
implement and evaluate innovation and competitiveness policies. The first subcomponent would 
develop a new vision and organizational structure for the Ministry that will allow it to undertake 
its functions in a more effective manner, facilitate coordination of innovation and 
microeconomic policies with other ministries, and strengthen oversight of agencies reporting to 
the Ministry.  The sec
ond subcomponent would strengthen the Ministry’s capacity to formulate 
and implement policies and programs. In the short-run, priority would be given to strengthening 
the ministry’s policy-making capacity in the innovation area. The third subcomponent would 
support the development of a monitoring and evaluation directorate (“Observatory”) as an 
independent unit in the Ministry of Economy, responsible for providing sound indicators and 
evaluating policies and programs on innovation and other key areas to promote competitiveness. 
The fourth subcomponent would include a fund to pilot new initiatives and programs in the 
innovation area. The fund would be administered by the Ministry of Economy in coordination 
with the Inter-Ministerial Cabinet.  
 
Component 2 – Strengthening the effectiveness of research and linkages across the system  
 
This component would seek to strengthen the impact of research programs and linkages across 
the innovation system. The first subcomponent would provide a coherent support structure for 
team-based research in Chile by integrating all existing programs – including eventually the 
Millennium Science Initiative in the Ministry of Planning – within a new department in 
CONICYT, setting common standards, and redefining priorities according to the national 
innovation strategy. The process of integration would involve a redefinition of CONICYT’s 
organizational structure. The second subcomponent would consolidate public-private linkage 
activities launched in the APL1 within CONICYT and scale up priority programs such as the 
insertion of young researchers in industry. Finally, the third subcomponent would enhance 
CONICYT’s capacity to monitor implementation and assess the impact of its programs. This will 
be achieved by strengthening the Department of Studies in CONICYT, e.g. by transferring staff 
responsible for statistics and studies under the Observatory for STI piloted in the APL1.  
 
Component 3: Promoting technology transfer and new ventures  
 
This component would seek to promote technology transfer and new ventures and strengthen 
the effectiveness of Innova Chile under CORFO in accordance with a broad policy framework 
for promoting innovation that will be developed by the Ministry of Economy in coordination 
with CORFO and other agencies. The first subcomponent would seek to promote new enterprise 
developments in sectors with high growth potential by reviewing (i) Innova Chile’s overall 
approach to new firm formation to foster a coherent framework with clear articulation and 
sequencing of support programs, and (ii) supporting Innova Chile and other stakeholders to 
develop a network of well functioning technology incubators including some related to cluster 
priorities. The second subcomponent would strengthen various models for technology transfer to 
enterprises, especially SMEs, such as industrial technology centers and the development of 
technology brokers working across the national innovation system. The third subcomponent 
would enhance Innova Chile’s capacity to monitor, implement, and assess the impact of its 
programs.   
 
Page  3
D.  Project location (if known) 
Most activity is likely to be in the capital area.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
No safeguard policy issues have been identified. As was the case of the APL1, the project is 
expected to have a neutral or positive impact on the environment. Only research projects and 
programs that are environmentally sound will receive funding.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Reidar Kvam (LCSSA) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  10/30/2007 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  N/A 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
N/A.   
 
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Esperanza Lasagabaster 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Reidar Kvam 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Eduardo Velez Bustillo 
 
Comments:   
