Report No. 1093a-NEP                                                                L
Nepal: Appraisal of the
Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project
June 17, 1976
Irrigation and Area Development Division
South Asia Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00            =     12.50 Nepal Rupees (NRs)
NRs 1                   US cents 8.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENT
kV   =  Kilovolt          =      1,000 volts
kWh  =  Kilowatt hour    =       1,000 watt hours



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADADO     =    Assistant District Agriculture Development Officer
AD             Agricultural Department
ADBN           Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AIC       =    Agricultural Inputs Corporation
AJT            Assistant Junior Technician
BLGPO          Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project Office
CDO            Chief District Officer
DA             Department of Agriculture
DADO           District Agricultural Development Officer
DIHM           Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
FAMSD          Food and Agriculture Marketing Services Department
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GRDB           Groundwater Resources Development Board
HMGN      =    His Majesty's Government of Nepal
HYV            High Yielding Variety
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
I&D            Irrigation and Drainage
JT             Junior Technician
JTA       =    Junior Technical Assistant
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
IAAS      =    Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science
MFAI      =    Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation
MHP            Ministry of Home and Panchayat
MLR       =    Ministry of Land Reform
MWP            Ministry of Water and Power
MWT            Ministry of Works and Transport
NEC       =    Nepal Electricity Corporation
NFC       =    Nepal Food Corporation
NZIDB     =    Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Board
O&M       =    Operation and Maintenance
PCC       =    Project Coordinating Committee
PLAA      =    Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistant
PM        =    Project Manager
RD        =    Roads Department
SMS       =    Subject Matter Specialist
GLOSSARY
Panchayat =    Smallest subdivision of Government.
FISCAL YEAR
His Majesty's Government of Nepal - July 16 to July 15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...................            .. .   ..........   i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ...........................................                          1
II.    BACKGROUND    .............................................                        2
General  ............................................. * ........*...       2
Agriculture  ..* .. .*...... .  ... . ......... .  ........... ...........  3
Irrigation Development  ..............  .......*......                      3
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  .........  ............. .   ................ .                   4
General .              .... ............  4
Climate  .........................................                          5
Topography and Soils  . .................... ......... .                    5
Hydrogeology  ................................. ........                    5
Existing Irrigation  .............                 .0     ..... .... **..   5
Farm Size and Land Tenure  ...............              .........          6
Agricultural Production  ... ........................                       6
Transportation and Marketing  .... ............                             7
IV.    THE PROJECT  .......................................... ...............             7
General  .....................                                              7
Project Works and Other Project Components                    ........      8
Water Supply,  Demand and Quality  ..................                       9
Engineering Design  ................. . . .  ................ .           10
Consulting Services  ...  ......   ...... *..............                 10
Construction Schedule  .................... .......  ...                  10
Project Costs  .....................                . ................    10
Financing  ........................................................       12
Procurement and Contracts  ..............             ...........         12
Disbursements  ............................................ .........     12
Accounts and Audits  ...............................                      13
Environmental  Impact  .............. ................                    13
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                ............................           13
Operation and Maintenance  ........ .................                     15
Agricultural  Supporting Services  ..................                     16
Farmers' Organizations            .     .............    17
Monitoring the Project........   18
Cost Recovery                  .       ................. .                18
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission including
Messrs. J.K. Lee, U. Hpu, and W.G. Rodger (IBRD) and W. Barber who visited
the project area in Nepal, November/December 1975.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES ... ......   20
Crop Calendars and Cropping Patterns ..............   20
Yields and Production .............................   21
Marketing and Processing ........... .. .............   22
Prices   ............................................   22
Farm  Income   ........................... .. ..............  22
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION          .............................   23
General   ...........................................   23
Foreign Exchange Earnings  ............... .  ......    23
Income Distribution ...... .... .. ................. .    24
Employment Opportunities ..........................   24
Rate  of  Return   ................ .. ..................  25
Sensitivity  Analysis   .......................................  26
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....      .............   26
ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Development
2.   Climatic Data
3.   Project Works
4.   Hydrogeology of the Project Area
5.   Irrigation Water Supply, Demand and Quality
6.   Implementation Schedule
7.   Cost Estimates and Schedule of Expenditure
8.   Proposed Credit Allocation and Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
9.   Agricultural Supporting Services
10.   Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
11.   Prices for Economic and Financial Analyses
12.   Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
13.   Farm Labor Analysis
14.   Economic Analysis
CHART
Project Organization
MAPS
12074 - Project Location and Civil Works
12075 - Project Area
12076 - Typical Irrigation Service Unit



NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE
BRAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture dominates the economy of Nepal.  It accounts for about
90% of the employment, 80% of the export earnings and 67% of the GDP which
averages about US$100 per person. Nepal imports most of the industrial and
manufactured consumer goods required by its population and it depends prima-
rily upon the earnings from agricultural exports, the income from tourism and
Gurka transfers to pay for such imports. In the last two years, the balance
of payments has taken an adverse turn and the Government is re-examining its
development and trade policies in an effort to identify action that can be
taken to cope with recent trends. Increased development of small and quick
maturing irrigation projects is one of the approaches being pursued.
ii.       The Terai, the southern lowland portion of the country, offers the
greatest potential for such quick yielding irrigation projects. The Terai
includes 68% of the cultivated land area, most of the 260,000 ha which are
now irrigated, and it is adjacent to India where the surplus agricultural
products can be sold. Moreover, much of the Terai is underlain with ground-
water which can be quickly developed and put to use without the need to de-
velop major hydraulic works normally involved in surface water development
and which require long gestation periods.
iii.      This would be the second project involving groundwater on the Terai.
The first was the Birganj Irrigation Project (Credit 373-NEP) granted in 1973
which includes 2,700 ha to be irrigated by tubewells and 28,700 ha by sur-
face water gravity systems. The Bhairawa project would include an additional
7,500 ha. The two projects taken together would provide the opportunity to
explore problems in development and management of the tubewell systems under
the two different ethnic groups that inhabit the Terai. If these projects
prove successful, they would open the way for much larger future developments.
iv.       The proposed project would involve the construction of 63 tubewells
to serve the 7,500 hectares that are now limited to the production of one crop
a year under rainfed conditions during the monsoon season. In addition, the
project would include the construction and improvement of village roads, the
construction of an 11 kV transmission system to electrify the wells, the pro-
vision of additional grain storage capacity, strengthening of the agricultural
supporting services--particularly the extension service and provision of agri-
cultural production credit, the completion of a feasibility study for another
tubewell project in adjacent areas, and a study of water charges in Nepal.
v.        The total project cost is estimated at US$13.7 million equivalent
with a foreign exchange component of US$6.8 million. The major elements in
the cost estimate include land acquisition of US$0.3 M, civil works (US$3.7 M),
equipment and vehicles (US$3.0 M), consulting services (US$1.5 M), agricul-
tural supporting services (US$0.2 M), engineering and administration (US$0.5



- ii -
M), production credit to farmers (US$1.0 M) -- making the base project cost
US$10.2 M. Physical and price contingencies (US$3.5 M) raise the total cost
to US$13.7 M.
vi.       Project implementation would take four years.  The Department of
Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture
and Irrigation would be responsible for tubewell installation and construc-
tion of irrigation and drainage networks for each well, the construction of
village roads and the grain storage, as well as coordination of the other
project components carried out by other participating agencies. The Nepal
Electricity Corporation of the Ministry of Water and Power would be responsi-
ble for the construction of the necessary transmission system for electrifying
the wells. Other appropriate agencies of the MFAI would carry out the exten-
sion program and the management of the agricultural production credit.
The Project Manager would be assisted by a Project Coordinating Committee op-
erating under the Chairmanship of the Chief District Officer and including
representation of all agencies involved in the project at the local level.
A consulting firm would be employed to assist with project implementation and
the preparation of feasibility report for the next tubewell project and a study
of irrigation water charges including their future recommended levels. The ir-
rigation and drainage system under each well would be operated and maintained
by a Water Users Group comprised of all cultivators receiving service from an
individual well.
vii.      The procurement of well equipment including drilling rigs, pumps
and motors would be by international competitive bidding while construction
of those items that are small and would involve labor-intensive construction
methods such as irrigation distributary canals, drainage networks and village
roads would be through local competitive bidding. The drilling and installa-
tion of the wells would be by force account.
viii.     At full development in 1985, it is anticipated that the incremen-
tal production of milled rice would be about 11,000 tons and wheat about
16,000 tons over present production. The project related increases of about
27,000 tons of such foodgrains would result in annual net foreign exchange
earnings of US$1.7 million.
ix.       The project would directly benefit some 4,500 farm families (22,500
persons), 60% of whom are currently living below the poverty level of US$50
per person (NRs 3,100/family). At full development and after paying the pro-
posed water charges, the incomes of all farmers operating farms of 0.5 ha or
more would be sufficient to provide the basic necessities for family living.
The more intensive cultivation anticipated under the project would also
double the farm labor requirements -- an increase in employment opportunity
of 1.1 million man-days.
x.        The project's economic rate of return would be 19%.  Sensitivity
tests indicate that even under a variety of adverse conditions, the project
would continue to be economically viable.



- iii -
xi.       The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$9 million.  The
credit would cover the foreign exchange costs as well as 32% of the local
cost of the project or 66% of the total project costs. The Borrower would
be the Kingdom of Nepal.






NEPAL
APPRAISAL OF THE
BHAIRAWA-LUMIBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) has requested IDA assis-
tance in financing the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project. Since the begin-
ning of its operation in Nepal in FY1970, the Bank Group has extended nine
credits totaling US$66.7 million. The Bhairawa Groundwater Project would be
the Bank Group's second project in support of the country's irrigation devel-
opment, the first being Credit 373-NEP for the Birganj Irrigation Project
which was signed on April 18, 1973. That credit provided US$6 million to
assist in completing the distribution networks necessary to provide surface
irrigation to 28,700 ha and to install tubewells and other related facilities
to irrigate an additional 2,700 ha.
1.02      Out of a total irrigable area of some 1.3 million ha in Nepal only
260,000 ha have been irrigated. Most of Nepal's undeveloped irrigable land
is in the Terai -- the southern lowland part of the country. Because of
numerous streams that dissects the area, easily erodable soil condition and
the severity of the monsoon rains, the development of surface water gravity
irrigation in the conventional manner in Nepal has limited potential. As a
supplement to surface water schemes, HMGN is exploring the groundwater poten-
tial of the Terai, and there is good reason to be optimistic about the
availability of sufficient water to irrigate a large part of the irrigable
lands in that region.
1.03      One of the major problems encountered in the development of ground-
water projects is that of organizing the farmers using each well and the man-
agement of the individual well systems. The Birganj and Bhairawa Groundwater
Projects would serve as pilot developments under each of the two major ethnic
groups (Aryan stock from India in the former case and a mixture of Aryan and
Mongoloid people who migrated from the mountains in the present case) inhabit-
ing the Terai. These projects would provide a sound basis for proceeding with
the development of additional groundwater projects.
1.04      A feasibility study of this project, originally identified by IDA in
July of 1974, was completed by Tahal Engineers Ltd. (Israel) in October, 1975,
and appraisal was completed in November/December 1975 by a Bank Group mission
comprising Messrs. J.K. Lee, U Hpu, and W.G. Rodger (IBRD) and W. Barber (Con-
sultant).



- 2 -
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Nepal is a landlocked country bounded by India on the east, south
and west and China on the north. It is roughly rectangular in shape and ex-
tends approximately 850 km from east to west and 180 km from north to south.
The country divides naturally into three zones; the Terai, an extension of
the broad Gangetic plain of India along the southern border ranging in eleva-
tion from 100 m to 450 m; the hills, comprising the foothills of the Himalayas,
ranging in elevation from 450 m to 3,600 m; and the rugged mountain regions of
the Himalayas to the north with elevations above 3,600 m.
2.02      The Terai has a humid subtropical climate with rainfall varying be-
tween 2,500 mm in the east to 1,400 mm in the west. The hill zone, particu-
larly in the higher portions, has a temperate climate while the mountain
areas have an alpine climate. Nepal has a typical monsoon wet season which
extends from May through October, with the most rainfall occurring in July
and August.
2.03      The total land area of Nepal is 14.1 million ha with only 2.0 mil-
lion ha (14%) being cultivated and only about 260,000 ha (13% of cultivated
land) being irrigated. Although the Terai includes only 17% of the total
land area, it includes 68% of the cultivated land and most of the irrigated
land.
2.04      Nepal's population, currently about 12.5 million, is increasing
at the rate of 2.1% a year. Over 90% of the population depends upon agricul-
ture for its livelihood. The annual gross national product in the country
amounts to only about US$100 per person. The pressure of population on the
cultivated land area in Nepal, particularly in the hill area, is among the
most acute in the world. Following the control of malaria in the mid-1950s,
many of the hill and mountain people migrated to the Terai in anticipation
of a better life. However, this has done little to relieve the overall pres-
sure on the land resource in the hill region. The birthrate has quickly
overtaken any temporary relief that might have resulted from such migrations.
2.05      The terrain of the country as well as the mountain streams that
debouch onto the Terai have made it extremely difficult to provide an effec-
tive transportation system. However, within the last two decades, roads have
been constructed on the north-south axis from Kathmandu to China and India.
There is also a road extending from Kathmandu west to Pokhara and from there
south to the Indian Border.  HMGN is now in the process of constructing an
east-west highway on the Terai, the eastern portion is completed and the
middle section is under construction. In 1972, there were 1,250 km of roads
in the country. Most of the Terai, particularly the western portion, is
accessible only through India. The principal means of transport in the hill
country is by human porters or pack animals utilizing trails and suspension
bridges.



- 3 -
2.06      Nepal imports most of the industrial products, a significant por-
tion of the manufactured consumer goods and all of its commercial fertilizer;
it pays for these imports mainly through its exports -- mostly foodgrains --
and earnings from tourism. Because of its transport linkages, it is only
natural that India should be Nepal's major market as well as source of imports.
2.07      Since the mid-1960s, foodgrain production has grown less than 1%
annually, mainly due to expansion in the cropped area rather than increases
in crop yields. Hence, during the last decade because of the growing popu-
lation in relation to foodgrain production , Nepal's grain exports have fallen
from about 500,000 tons per year to only about 200,000 tons -- or to only 10%
of its annual production. Also, in the last two years, because of worldwide
inflation, including particularly the high prices of petroleum products,
Nepal's terms of trade have taken a decided turn for the worse. HMGN realizes
that it must take drastic steps to increase exports of foodgrains and to in-
crease the earnings from tourism. The Fifth Five Year Plan which began in
FY1976 is aimed at expanding the irrigated acreage and increasing the genera-
tion of hydroelectric power in order to make more effective use of the
country's huge water resource as well as the road and power infrastructure
that has recently been constructed. So far as irrigation is concerned, the
primary emphasis is now upon quick-yielding projects.
Agriculture
2.08      Agriculture is characterized by subsistence farming with much of
the land under foodgrain production. Paddy accounts for 51% of the total
cropped area; maize 19%; wheat and other cereals 16%; and other crops includ-
ing oilseeds, pulses, jute, potatoes, sugarcane, tobacco and horticultural
crops 14%. Even though the climate on the Terai is suitable for year-round
crop production, because of lack of rainfall, farmers make very little attempt
to produce crops during the dry season. Also because of frequent droughts
during the wet season, they are reluctant to use improved seeds and to apply
the necessary fertilizer required to produce high yields. Under the present
system, they apparently consider the risks too great to justify the use of
such inputs. The present cropping intensity is only 118% and.the yields of
wheat and paddy are only about 0.8 tons and 1.1 tons per ha, respectively.
The yields of paddy are significantly lower on the Terai than in the hill
region of the country (Annex 1).
Irrigation Development
2.09      Because of physical conditions, irrigation development in Nepal has
been slow. As the rivers emerge from the foothills, their gradients flatten,
resulting in the deposition of large fans of gravel and sediment. These
fans, in turn, result in an unstable condition in the streambeds and, because
of this, construction of diversion dams at such locations is both difficult
and costly. To compound this problem, only small areas can be commanded by
gravity diversions between the foothills and the Indian border, and also to
permit year-round irrigation, storage is required to supplement the natural
river flows during the dry months.



2.10      Prior to 1950 only about 15,000 ha were reported as irrigated by
public projects although there were areas that were partially served during
periods of high natural river flow by privately built works. By 1975, an
estimated 260,000 ha were irrigated -- 156,000 ha by farmer-built projects
and 104,000 ha by projects constructed by HMGN. During the 19-year period,
from 1956-1975, large surface water irrigation projects with small hydro-power
components were undertaken in cooperation with India. These included the
Gandak, Kosi West and Kosi East. While such projects promise to be signi-
ficant, they require long planning and gestation periods.
2.11      Between 1970 and 1975, HMGN has obtained assistance from IDA for
the construction of 32,000 ha Birganj Irrigation Project and 17,000 ha at
Chitwan and Kankai which are assisted by the Asian Development Bank. These
projects are still on-going. In addition, HMGN is undertaking the develop-
ment of 32,000 ha at Kankai and Mahakali with its own resources and it is
completing groundwater reconnaissance studies on 300,000 ha in the western
Terai Region.
2.12      Most of the Terai is underlain by a groundwater aquifer which drains
the underground flows from the foothills to the Ganges River. Through the
installation of tubewells, these aquifers can be tapped for irrigation pur-
poses, thus avoiding the difficult problems associated with conventional
surface water development. However, the development of groundwater is not
entirely devoid of problems. Compared to conventional surface water devel-
opments, the cost of energy for pumping and replacement of pumps, motors and
wells results in high annual operating costs. To make such projects viable,
the operating costs must be held to a minimum and water used efficiently.
This requires effective management of the individual wells and adequate
provision of agricultural inputs.
2.13      The present project would be the first medium-sized groundwater
irrigation development in western Nepal and would include a feasibility
study for a further groundwater development. With the removal of the water
constraint, it is anticipated that farmers would demand the necessary produc-
tion inputs to optimize crop yields. In addition to providing irrigation
water, the project provides agricultural credit to facilitate the use of
such inputs.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The 20,000 ha gross project area is located within Rupandehi Dis-
trict in the Western Terai at an altitude of about 100 m (Map 12074). It
lies between the Dana River in the west and Rohini River in the east and the
Churia (Siwalik) Hills to the north and the India/Nepal border to the south
(Map 12075). The area is bisected by the north-south Butwal-Bhairawa road
which connects to the major highway systems of Nepal and India. Bhairawa,
the main town, has a population of about 30,000 and has air service.



-5-
Climate
3.02      The project area climate is monsoonal with three distinct seasons:
a warm wet season from mid-June through September, a cool dry season from
October through February and a pre-monsoon hot season from March through
mid-June. Average rainfall, about 1,400 mm with over 85% during June through
September is erratic; dependable rainfall with a probability of 0.8 (four out
of five years-) is lower and not more than 800 mm. Temperatures range from
about 60C in January to over 38 0C in May; mean monthly temperatures are 21
C-290C in March-November and 15 0C-17 C in December-February.  Daily sunshine
occurs through the year; 8-10 hours daily in October-May and 5-7 hours daily
during June-September (Annex 2).
Topography and Soils
3.03      The topography is that of a flat plain sloping gently from north to
south at about 1:800. Broad slightly elevated ridges and lower troughs dif-
fering by less than 1 m characterize the area which is intersected by small
deeply incised north-south rivers and streams. The soils are alluvial, mod-
erately fine textured silty loams, silty clay loams and silty clays. They are
non-saline, moderately alkaline and with proper irrigation and surface drain-
age are suitable for growing a wide range of crops. Over 80% of the area has
been classified by the US Bureau of Reclamation standards as Class II or III
for irrigation.
Hydrogeology
3.04      The Western Terai including the project area is underlain by deep
alluvial deposits ranging from course, fragmented rock deposits in the out-
wash fans of the Churia Hills (the Bhabar zone) to thicker clay beds in the
south (the Gangetic zone). Both zones have high yielding aquifers which have
been investigated by HMGN with US Geological Survey assistance provided under
a USAID program and subsequently by consultants funded under the Birganj Irri-
gation Project (para 1.04).  Present groundwater development is limited to   3
about 160 widely scattered very small free-flowing wells yielding about 10 mm
annually and serving a small area -- mostly south of the project area.
Existing Irrigation
3.05      Farmers have constructed simple diversion works on the unstable
Tinao River, which bisects the project area, to serve, with widely vary-
ing success, up to 7,000 ha of land (of which 5,000 ha lies within the 20,000
ha gross project area). These cooperatively managed systems supply mainly
supplemental irrigation during high-flow periods. The inadequate diversion
and conveyance structures provide, at best, uncertain irrigation -- particu-
larly to the lower reaches of the distribution system.



-6-
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.06      The cadastral survey conducted by the Ministry of Land Reform (MLR)
indicates farm sizes in Rupandehi District, as shown below:
Average
Farm Size              Farm Holdings      Cultivated Areas          Holding
(ha)                  (no)       %       (ha)          %           (ha)
Less than 0.68           15,154      37       5,152          7  )
)       0.6
0.68 - 1.36              9,696      24       9,890         14  )
1.36 - 2.72              9,375      23      18,275         25           1.99
2.72 - 6.80              5,139      13      24,462         34  )
)       6.07
Over 6.80               1,199       3      14,029         20
40,563    100      71,808        100
3.07      The bulk of project beneficiaries would be small farmers.  On the
basis of the District data, the number of farm families in the project area is
estimated to be around 4,500 with an average holding of 1.7 ha. About 61% of
the families have an average size holding of only 0.6 ha, 23% about 2 ha and
16% about 6 ha. A farm survey of four villages in the project area indicates
that 93% of all cultivators own all of the land they farm and 7% rent part of
their land. The families cultivating up to 1.5 ha generally use their own
family labor, but those cultivating from 1.5 to 5 ha may engage some hired
labor while those cultivating above 5 ha do their cultivation mainly with
hired labor.
Agricultural Production
3.08      Paddy is by far the most important crop and accounts for 80% of the
cropped area. There is only one crop of monsoon paddy, the climate being too
cold to raise a second crop in winter. Nursery seedbed preparation begins
with the onset of the monsoon in May and June. Early maturing coarse varie-
ties are planted first and harvested in October and early November, and long-
life fine varieties are planted later in June-July and harvested in November-
December. Wheat is of next importance, accounting for 12% of the cropped
area. It is the major dry season crop and is grown with residual soil mois-
ture following paddy. Other crops include rainy season pulses, mainly pigeon
peas, winter pulses, oilseeds and sugarcane -- each occupying about 2% of area.
The present cropped area is about 9,600 ha which on a net cultivated area of
about 8,100 ha 1/ gives a cropping intensity of 118%.
1/   With the project the area lost to irrigation and drainage networks
including reservoirs and roads would be about 600 ha.



3.09      The HYV paddy (IR 20, IR 22 and Mashooli) has been introduced but
so far accounts for only 300 ha or 4% of the area under paddy cultivation,
although it is becoming increasingly popular in the neighboring areas where
dependable irrigation is available. The HYV and local rainfed paddy presently
give low yields -- 1.8 and 1.1 tons per ha, respectively. The yields of
other crops are also low being only 0.8 tons for wheat (mainly RR 21), 0.4
tons for oilseeds, 0.5 tons for pulses and 25.0 tons for sugarcane. The
total production is about 8,700 tons paddy, 900 tons wheat, 170 tons pulses,
200 tons oilseeds and 5,000 tons sugarcane.
Transportation and Marketing
3.10      The farmers in the project area sell their surplus grain and oil-
seeds to traders operating in Bhairawa. There are about 60 such traders and
each of them has sufficient space to store about 25 tons. In total, they
handle about 40,000 tons per year from the Rupandehi District. The farmer
is free to sell to any trader he wishes, but as a matter of habit, he usually
sells to the same buyer year after year and more often than not to one who
has advanced him production credit.
3.11      The trader, in turn, sells the crops directly to the Indian agents
or in the case of rice to the rice export companies. The export companies
are required to sell a specified portion (25% in 1975) at a preferential
price to the Nepal Food Corporation (NFC) for distribution in the food deficit
areas within Nepal. The export companies are free to sell the balance to the
Indian agents. Transport from the traders shop in Bhairawa to the railhead in
India is by truck. From that point it is transported by road and rail to the
destination in India -- usually the deficit areas in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and
West Bengal.  The prices received by the Nepalese farmers are closely related
to the prices in India.
3.12      Because of lack of storage, problems of transport during the mon-
soon, and the need to sell the crop as soon as possible to repay creditors,
most crops are marketed by the farmer immediately after harvest -- the paddy
in October/November and the wheat in March/April. The concentration of the
marketing in these few weeks has a depressing effect upon prices.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The proposed project would be the first stage of a groundwater devel-
opment program to provide irrigation for the Western Terai. The scope of the
project was selected on the basis of need, accessibility to and agricultural
potential of the project area, proven groundwater resources, and implementing
capability of HMGN.



- 8 -
Project Works and Other Project Components
4.02      Project Works:
(a) installation of 63 deep tubewells varying in depth
from 120 to 200 m, equipped with eiectric powered
pumps capable of discharging 300 m /hour with 30 m
lift;
(b) construstion of 63 storage reservoirs, each with
2,000 m capacity for receiving discharges from the
tubewells;
(c) construction of irrigation and drainage networks
equipped with control structures to serve 120 ha
under each well;
(d) construction of approximately 75 km of 11 kV trans-
mission lines and stepdown transformers from 11 kV
to 0.4 kV through which power would be delivered
from the existing 33 kV Bhairawa-Butwal grid to the
project pumps;
(e) construction of approximately 70 km of village roads
linking the major villages to the existing black-top
road network;
(f) construction of a 1,000 ton grain storage facility,
enlargement of the existing offices of the Department
of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology (DIHM) and of
the Department of Agriculture at (DA) Bhairawa, and
construction of a small training facility and simple
residential housing accommodations at the Bhairawa
Research Farm.
4.03      Other Project Components:
(a)  two drilling rigs to be owned and used by the DIHM for
drilling of the tubewells;
(b) vehicles and equipment to be used for surveys, construction
supervision, project administration, operation and mainte-
nance, and research and extension;
(c) about 235 man-months of consulting service to assist with
project implementation and to prepare a feasibility report
for a further groundwater development in adjacent areas
and a study of irrigation water charges and their future
recommended level;



-9-
(d) an additional staff of 68 Nepalese agriculturists
(extension) and technicians for a period of four years
to carry out the intensified agricultural extension and
training programs; and
(e) NRs 12.5 million agricultural production credit to farmers
managed by the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
(ADBN) for financing the increased agricultural inputs
(fertilizer, pesticides, seeds, and payment for hired
labor and bullock teams) that would be required
with an assured irrigation water supply.
The project works and components are detailed in Annex 3.
4.04      Tubewells, Pumps and Motors.  Motor starters on the tubewells would
be activated automatically through electrical relays in response to variations
in the reservoir water levels and an override control would be provided to
shut the pumps off during periods of peak power demand (maximum five hours/
day). The tubewells, pumps and motors for individual wells would be housed
in a single brick building.
4.05      Distribution and Drainage Networks.  The canal and drainage system
serving the 120 ha under each tubewell would be built with select fill
materials and provided with both water control and crossing structures. The
irrigation channels would lead from the storage reservoir down to 5 ha block
turnouts. The drainage network would connect each block to the outfalls con-
necting with the natural north-south rivers and streams. Within each 5 ha
block, farmers would construct their own small water distribution and drainage
channels and prepare the fields for irrigation under the technical guidance
provided by the project office (Map 12076).
4.06      Village Roads.  The village roads would be gravel surfaced to a
width of 3.5 m and would be located mainly in north-south direction to mini-
mize stream crossings. So far as possible, existing tracks and established
rights-of-way would be utilized for these roads.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.07      Groundwater balance st.dies indicate an annual average recharge for
the project area of about 150 Mm (Annex 4). Water requirements derived by
the Blaney-Criddle method using project 3area data and experience in other Perai
irrigation projects amounts to 12,000 m /ha/year in a dry year and 9,000 m /ha/
year in an average year (Annex 5). At Year Eight when all the wells would
operate at fuli capacity and at full de3elopment, the extraction would amount
to about 90 Mm in a dry year and 70 Mm in an average year, well within the
annual recharge for the project area. Hence, it is assured that there will
not be any mining of groundwater. Also because of the location of the project
area, there is no possibility that future developments, either surface or
groundwater, might adversely affect the groundwater supply. The presently
irrigated lands immediately to the north of the proposed tubewell area act



- 10 -
as a spreading ground for the recharge of the aquifers hence any increase in
diversions to that area, particularly in the dry season, would improve the
groundwater supply. There are no other potential surface or groundwater devel-
opments upstream from the proposed tubewell project.
4.08      The groundwater has been extensively sampled, tested and found to be
of good quality and satisfactory for continued irrigation use.
Engineering Design
4.09      During 1975, surveys and designs were completed as follows:  well
field and tubewell design; village road network planning; irrigation and
drainage networks for four typical irrigation service areas; drainage out-
fall planning and preliminary designs of 11 kV electric power transmission
networks. The DIHM, DA, and the Nepal Electricity Corporation (NEC) would
complete detailed designs and contract documentation prior to construction of
project works. The DIHM and DA would be assisted by project consultants.
Consulting Services
4.10      A consulting firm would be retained:  (a) to provide the project
with technical assistance and advisory services in construction, procurement,
general administration and operation and maintenance and monitoring project
effects, and (b) to conduct feasibility studies for a further 15,000-20,000 ha
groundwater irrigation project in adjacent areas of the Rupandehi District
and a study of water charges for the country.
Construction Schedule
4.11      In the prevailing monsoon rain conditions, the construction season
is limited to eight months from November through June. Project implementa-
tion would take four years and would be completed in 1980 (Annex 6). Detailed
topographic mapping using the existing 1:12,000 aerial photography would be
completed during the first working season. Sufficient survey and planning
is already available to commence construction of eight wells and the asso-
ciated irrigation and drainage networks, 10 km of 11 kV transmission net-
work together with up to 10 km of village roads during the first year of
implementation.
Project Costs
4.12      Total project costs are estimated to be NRs 171 million (US$13.7
million equivalent) net of taxes.   The foreign exchange component would be
NRs 85 million equivalent (US$6.8 million) or 50% of the total project cost.
Estimated costs are based on price levels prevailing in December 1975. Phy-
sical contingencies at about 10% of basic costs have been included. Expected
price increases for civil works begin at 14% and taper to 8% in the fourth
year. Equipment and vehicles, project administration, supporting services
and consultants have estimated price increases ranging from 10% to 8% over
the same period. Project costs are detailed in Annex 7 and summarized below.



- 1l1 -
% of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Total
-----(NRs Million)----  ----(US$ Million)---
1. Land Acquisition           3.7      -        3.7   0.3       -       0.3       2
2. Civil Works
Irrigation and
Drainage Networks    20.0       5.0      25.0   1.6      0.4      2.0
Village Road
Improvement            7.5      1.2       8.7   0.6      0.1      0.7
Tubewell Drilling        5.0     1.3       6.3   0.4      0.1      0.5
11 kV Trans-
mission Line            2.5     1.2       3.7   0.2      0.1      0.3
Buildings                1.2     1.3       2.5   0.1      0.1      0.2
Subtotal          36.2    10.0      46.2   2.9       0.8     3.7      27
3. Equipment, Vehicles
and Imported Mate-
rials
Tubewell Equipment       2.5    26.3      28.8   0.2      2.1      2.3
Other Equipment
and Vehicles           1.2      2.5       3.7   0.1      0.2      0.3
Imported Materials
and Equipment for
Transmission Line       -       3.7       3.7    -       0.3      0.3
Roads                    -      1.3       1.3    -       0.1      0.1
Subtotal           3.7    33.8      37.5   0.3       2.7     3.0      22
4. Consulting Services        1.3    17.5      18.8   0.1       1.4     1.5      11
5. Project Services
Agricultural
Supporting  Services  2.5        -        2.5   0.2       -       0.2
Engineering and
Administration         5.0      1.0       6.0   0.4      0.1      0.5
Subtotal           7.5      1.0       8.5   0.6      O.1     0.7       5
Subtotal
Items 1-5        52.4    62.3    114.7   4.2        5.0     9.2
6. Agricultural Credit
to Farmers               12.5      -       12.5   1.0       -       1.0       7
Base Cost        64.9    62.3    127.2   5.2        5.0    10.2
Physical Contin-
gencies                   5.0     6.2      11.2   0.4      0.5      0.9       7
Expected Price
Increases                16.3    16.2      32.5   1.3      1.3      2.6      19
Total Project Cost           86.2    84.7    170.9   6.9        6.8    13.7    100
-    -               -                -       -~~



- 12 -
Financing
4.13      The proposed IDA credit of US$9 million would finance the foreign
exchange cost and 32% of the local costs, amounting to 66% of the total proj-
ect costs. HMGN would contribute the balance (US$4.7 M equivalent) through
annual budgetary appropriations. Assurances were obtained that HMGN would
make adequate budgetary provisions to the agencies involved to cover their
share of the project costs and that it would furnish to IDA annually a de-
tailed plan for the implementation of the project with related financial
requirements for the following fiscal year (July 16 to July 15 inclusive).
Procurement and Contracts
4.14      All equipment, vehicles and imported materials (Annex 7, Tables 3,
4 and 5) for the project would be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Such materials and
equipment would be grouped so far as possible in lots, each lot being of
not less than US$100,000, and local manufacturers would be allowed up to 15%
preference. Drilling and development of project wells would be carried out
by force account. The consultant team would include two drilling foremen to
assist the project engineers and technicians in carrying out the well program.
4.15      The irrigation and drainage networks, transmission systems, project
buildings, and roads would be small, simple, suitable for the labor-intensive
construction method, subject to seasonal weather interruption and, so far as
possible, would be constructed at a time to minimize interference with farm-
ing operations. These would not be attractive to international contractors
and would, therefore, be procured by local competitive bidding (LCB) pro-
cedures under arrangements which are satisfactory to IDA. To avoid delays
which could be the basis of contractual claims, assurances were obtained
that no civil works contracts would be awarded until the necessary land or
rights-of-way (in case of transmission lines) had been acquired. Small
off-the-shelf items costing less than the equivalent of US$10,000 which for
reasons of economy and efficiency would be purchased through normal Government
procurement procedures which are satisfactory to IDA, provided the total cost
of such procurement would not exceed US$100,000.
Disbursements
4.16      Disbursements from the proposed credit would cover:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
construction materials, equipment, vehicles and spares;
(b)  90% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally
manufactured construction materials, equipment, vehicles
and spares;
(c)  75% of total expenditures for other construction materials,
equipment, vehicles and spares (off-the-shelf);



- 13 -
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for consultant services;
(e) 75% of local expenditures for civil works if carried out by
force account, and 100% of foreign expenditures and 75%
of local expenditures if carried out by local contractors.
Disbursements for civil works carried out by force account would be made
a-ainst statements of expenditures, the documentation for which would be
retained bv the DIHM for review by supervision missions. All other disburse-
ments would be made against full documentation. Disbursements are expected
to be completed by June 30, 1981, which is approximately six months after the
end of the four-year implementation period. Any funds remaining in the credit
account after completion of the project would be cancelled. A semi-annual
disbursement schedule and the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the
credit are shown in Annex 8.
Accounts and Audits
4.17      Assurances were obtained that HMGN would cause (a) the DIHM and
other participating agencies responsible for carrying out the project to
establish and maintain separate accounts for the project in accordance with
sound accounting practices and that these accounts would be audited annually
by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and (b) certified copies of the
audited account and the auditor's report would be sent to IDA within six
months after the close of each fiscal year.
Environmental Impact
4.18      Gastro intestinal diseases resulting from polluted water used by the
villagers are the most common public health problem occurring in the proposed
project area. Water from tubewells in the project area is potable and the
development would definitely help in reducing the incidence of these diseases.
At one time malaria was very common in the area, but with the advent of DDT
this disease was brought under control in the mid-1950s. Since DDT as well as
pyrethrum are available for the control of mosquitoes, it is not anticipated
that any serious water-related diseases would result from the project.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      The implementation of the project would be carried out by existing
line agencies of MOGN with special arrangements to insure coordination among
these agencies. The DIHM of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation
(MFAI) would be responsible for the topographic survey of the project area,
,he design and construction of tubewells, associated irrigation and drainage
networks,the village roads, the grain storage and project buildings. It is
crucial to the success of the project that the water users accept the res-
ponsibility for the operation and maintenance (O & M) of the irrigation and
drainage networks and for repayment. Prior to the initiation of the drilling
of any individual well, the beneficiaries shall be signed up in a Water User



- 14 -
group and agree to pay water charges. If drilling and well installation work
were given out to contractors, this requirement could occasion delays in the
drilling of some tubewells and thus provide a basis for contractors' claims.
To avoid this possibility, it is necessary that the drilling and installation
of wells be carried out under force account. The DIHM has had considerable
experience in this kind of work; with the assistance of USAID, over the last
decade, it has carried out a groundwater investigation on over 300,000 ha in
the Western Terai. Assurances were obtained from HMGN that drilling of any
individual tubewell would not begin until the potential beneficiaries repre-
senting two-thirds of the service area had signed up in a Water Users group
and agreed to pay water charges.
5.02      The construction of the electrical transmission system would be
carried out by the NEC of the Ministry of Water and Power (MWP). The agri-
cultural and extension and education components of the project would be
carried out by the DA. The agricultural production credit component of the
project would be managed by the ADBN. The mobilization of inputs would be
the duty of the Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC). The DIHM would estab-
lish the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project Office (BLGPO) in the project
area headed by a Project Manager (PM) to carry out DIHM's responsibility for
the project and coordinate all the other project components with other line
agencies. A condition of credit effectiveness would be that the PM, with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, shall have been appointed.
5.03      Coordination of the various project components would be achieved
at two levels by two coordinating committees. The existing Groundwater
Resources Development Board (GRDB) at the national level, would advise and
coordinate on policy matters including programming, budgeting and finance.
The present membership of the Board includes the Secretary of the MFAI who
serves as Chairman and representatives of the Ministries of Finance (MF) and
MWP, the National Planning Commission, the DA, the Director General of the
DIHM and the Project Manager of GRDB who serves as Secretary. There is pro-
vision in the order establishing the Board for the addition of other members
as appropriate. For purposes of implementing the project, HMGN agreed that
representatives of NEC and the Ministry of Home and Panchayat (MHP) would
be added to the Board.
5.04      At the project level, a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) under
the chairmanship of the Chief District Officer (CDO) and including the Dis-
trict level officers and representatives of participating agencies as members
or associate members would advise and assist the Project Manager in the coor-
dination of various components of the project, in particular in the siting of
wells and the organization of Water Users groups which are the most crucial
factors for the success of the project. Members of PCC would include the
Assistant District Agricultural Development Officer (ADADO), a representative
of NEC, and the PM as member and secretary. Associate members of PCC, to be
called when needed, would include heads of the Bhairawa Agriculture Research
Station, District Officers of the AIC and of the Food and Agriculture Market-
ing Service Department (FAMSD), District Manager of ADBN, and a representative
of the Soil Survey Division of DA. The project organization chart is presented
at the end of this report. A condition of credit effectiveness would be that



- 15 -
the PCC with the chairman, members and associate members as described above,
will have been established. Judging from the working relationships among
Government Agencies, there is good reason to be optimistic that the above
organizational plan would work satisfactorily.
5.05      A firm of consultants would be employed to provide about 235 man-
months of services to assist in project implementation (180 man-months) and
to prepare a feasibility report (55 man-months) for a further groundwater
irrigation project of approximately 15,000-20,000 ha in adjacent areas and
a water charges study. In project implementation, the consultants would
assist and advise in all activities that are the responsibility of the BGPO
including topographical survey and mapping, planning and design of tubewells,
reservoirs, irrigation and drainage networks and roads, preparation of tender
documents and procurement of equipment, vehicles and imported materials, con-
struction of tubewells, reservoirs, irrigation and drainage networks, roads
and project buildings, accounting, reporting and monitoring of groundwater
level and discharges and the agricultural impact of the project. They would
also prepare the 0 & M manual for tubewells and advise the PM on the admini-
stration and management during project implementation. A condition of credit
effectiveness would be that a firm of consultants to perform these services
has been selected.
Operation and Maintenance
5.06      During project implementation, the 0 & M of all irrigation facili-
ties down to 5 ha service blocks would be the responsibility of the BLGPO.
Following completion of construction, the BLGPO would continue to be respon-
sible for the 0 & M of tubewells and roads, but the responsibility for the
reservoirs, canals and drainage networks would be turned over to the Water
User groups served by each tubewell. The NEC would be responsible for the
0 & M of the transmission system. After transfer of the irrigation and drain-
age networks to the Water User groups, each group would appoint a water master
who would be responsible for the 0 & M of that particular system. Water would
be turned out of the irrigation channels on a rotational basis during daylight
hours to 5 ha blocks. The field irrigation and drainage channels within each
5 ha block would be constructed and operated from the outset by the water users
within that block, with technical assistance from the BLGPO. Assurances were
obtained that if any farmer has not carried out the construction of on-farm
development works as contemplated in para. 4.05 within one year following the
completion of the project water delivery and drainage networks, the DIHM would
carry out such development work and charge the cost to the farmer involved,
and until such work has been completed water would not be released to the farm
unit involved. Assurances were also given that HMGN would make adequate pro-
vision in the annual budgets to finance the 0 & M of the various project
components in accordance with sound technical standards.



- 16 -
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.07      Research.  The existing program of applied research for both paddy
and wheat would be continued and expanded. Mlore emphasis would be placed on
irrigation practices for dry season crops such as wheat, oilseeds and pulses,
and also upon the irrigation of HYV paddy. Four subject matter specialists
(paddy, wheat, plant protection and on-farm water management) and supporting
staff would be appointed and transport facilities would be provided under the
project. The Rice Research Development Center at Parwanipur Research Farm
and the W^Iheat Research Development Center at the Bhairawa Research Farm would
continue to support the project by providing foundation seeds of HYV suitable
for the project area and technical guidance relative to crop selection, im-
proved cultural practices, application of agricultural inputs, plant protec-
tion and on-farm water management. withl the assistance of the consultants,
the Bhairawa Center would also provide training to extension staff and pro-
gressive farmers.
5.08      Extension.  Starting from 1975, HMGN has introduced a new type of
agricultural extension service in the Birganj Irrigation Project. The service
is modeled after those introduced on the Bank-assisted irrigation projects in
nearby countries. The system involves the reorganization and strengthening of
existing extension services, extension and demonstration, strict adherence to
the schedule and concentration at the outset on important practices for the
major crops. Close coordination with applied research and regular in-service
training for extension staff is also emphasized.
5.09      The extension organization for the Bhairawa-Lumbini Project would
be headed by a District Agricultural Development Officer (DADO) assisted by
an ADADO with particular responsibility for the tubewell irrigated area. The
gross project area of 20,000 ha would be divided into three extension subdi-
visions each headed by a Junior Technician (JT). Each JT would be supported
bv three Junior Technical Assistants (JTAs) who would each supervise seven
Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistants (PLAAs). Each PLAA would provide
extension to about 200 farmers through about ten contact farmers. The total
extension staff for the project area would be about 98 persons. The 12 JTs
and JTAs could be provided from the sanctioned extension staff for Rupandehi
District. The 63 PLAAs would have to be recruited. Assurances were obtained
that an ADADO, 63 PLAAs and four Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) would be
recruited and appointed to work for the project in addition to the existing
staff (Annex 9).
5.10      Fertilizers.  Although fertilizer is presently used mainly by the
larger and progressive farmers, all cultivators are aware of the benefits.
They would use close to the optimum dosage if irrigation water supplies were
assured. Fertilizer supplies would be provided by the AIC with production
credit supplied to farmers by the ADBN supported by a project credit component.
3.11      Seeds.  Foundation Seeds for HYV wheat and paddy are produced
at the 'Wheat Research Production Center at Bhairawa and the Rice Research
Development Center at Parwanipur, respectively.  Seeds which command premium



- 17 -
prices are multiplied by selected farmers. As fresh seed to sustain yields
is required for replacement only every three or four years, the 7,500 ha net
irrigated area will require only 200 tons per annum of HYV paddy and 350 tons
per annum of HYV wheat. The existing seed production system which could
easily be expanded is capable of supplying the quantities needed with the
added advantage that the seed production centers are located close to the
development area.
5.12      Plant Chemicals.  Under the direction of the reorganized extension
service, farmers would be guided in the proper, and timely use of the neces-
sary plant chemicals which would be supplied by AIC through the cooperative
societies with credit provided by ADBN. It was agreed that the AIC would
make agricultural inputs available in sufficient quantity to meet the needs
of the project.
5.13      Agricultural Credit.  Short-term (production) credit for the pur-
chase of fertilizer, seeds, pesticides and payment for hired labor and bul-
lock teams is provided to project farmers by the ADBN and private money
lenders. The ADBN provides production credit directly to farmers at 15%
interest and through its guided cooperatives to which money is loaned at 11%
interest and passed on to farmers at 15% interest. The ADBN has a sufficient
number of branches in the project area to serve the project and the guided
cooperative system is being strengthened. While ADBN has been able to finance
all approved loans in Rupandehi District during the past year, it has had a
credit shortfall of about 20% at country level. Under project conditions, it
is anticipated that the annual incremental requirement for production credit
would amount to NRs 19 million. The farm operators could reasonably be ex-
pected to provide one-third of this from savings or current income but it
would be necessary for them to borrow the balance of about NRs 12,650,000
annually. To ensure that ADBN would be able to earmark the necessary produc-
tion credit for the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project, an amount of
NRs 12,500,000 would be included as a project component. Assurances were
obtained that HMGN would make funds available annually to meet the produc-
tion credit needs of the project farmers.
Farmers' Organizations
5.14      Existing farmers' organizations includes multipurpose, village coop-
erative societies (now being reorganized as cooperatives by ADBN) and informal
Water Users Associations on farmer constructed surface-water irrigation sys-
tems. Under this project each farmer would be required to sign a contract
issued by the DIHM under the general authority provided by the Irrigation
Electricity and Related Water Resources Act of 1967, agreeing to join a Water
Users group and to pay water charges. Such Water User groups for each well
would elect their own officials including a water master and would be res-
ponsible for the management of the water including the establishment of ro-
tations among the water users and the release of water to the service blocks.
The groups would also be responsible for the maintenance of the water supply
and drainage systems (reservoirs, canals and drains) down to the individual
service blocks.



- 18 -
5.15      Such Water User groups would provide a suitable organizational
framework for execution of additional assignments as their management capa-
bility develops. For instance, they could collect the electricity charges
for pumping water which would be billed monthly, they could provide an
avenue for channeling agricultural inputs to the project farms and they could
provide storage, transport, milling and marketing services for the project
farmers. Eventually they might even take over the operation of the indivi-
dual wells. Looking towards more complete utilization of such groups, it is
suggested that six be selected and given additional responsibilities as well
as special training and support. If this program proves successful, it could
be expanded to include the entire project. It would also provide an example
for future irrigation projects.
Monitoring the Project
5.16      The BLGPO would monitor the effect of pumping on the groundwater
aquifers both during and following the completion of construction. In addi-
tion, the ADADO would monitor the agricultural production and benefits that
result from the project. Assurances were obtained that HMGN would institute
such monitoring programs and that reports covering both activities would be
submitted to IDA annually but not later than December 31.
Cost Recovery
5.17      Farmers pay a land tax as part of general taxation.  This tax has
varying rates depending on classes of land; average land in the project
area bears a tax of NRs, 75 per ha. The Nepal Irrigation, Electricity and
Related Water Resources Act of 1967 authorizes a water cess on landowners
served by licensed surface irrigation organization; it also provides HMGN
with the legal authority to levy charges on users of publicly constructed
surface and groundwater irrigation works. Thus, farmers in surface irriga-
tion projects recently constructed by HMGN are charged about NRs 10.0 per ha
for water; this rate is nominal and represents only a small fraction of actual
O&M costs. Nepal has had no experience in the operation of state owned tube-
wells or in charging farmers for groundwater.
5.18      In view of the rapidly increasing role of the public sector in
developing the country's water resources, Government realizes the importance
of mobilizing budgetary resources from the beneficiaries of irrigation
projects and is committed to the gradual introduction of water charges. In
pursuit of this policy, Government is proposing to introduce annual charges
of NRs 160/ha for beneficiaries of the IDA-financed Birganj Project and over
the next few years as the project area develops to its full potential to
increase these charges to levels adequate to cover at least the full O&M
costs plus a portion of the capital cost.
5.19      For the project under consideration, the capital cost of the ir-
rigation works would amount to NRs 12,250/ha. The recovery of this cost
in 30 years at 10% interest would require an annual payment of NRs 1,300/
ha. In addition, the total annual O&M costs (including the replacements for
the motors and pumps) would amount to NRs 535/ha. As the labor for the



- 19 -
maintenance of irrigation and drainage network, valued at NRs 75 per ha,
would be provided by the beneficiaries, the full recovery of project costs
would require an annual payment of about NRs 1,750. Such a charge would
represent on the average about 55% of the net incremental farm family in-
comes excluding the cost of family labor.
5.20      Analaysis of the farmers' ability to repay the project costs indi-
cates 'project rents' varying between NRs 1,700 to 1,900 per ha i.e. approxi-
mately adequate for full cost recovery. However, because of the heavily
skewed land distribution a large majority of the farmers in the project area
are subsistence farmers whose present income levels are about 40% of the
national average. Even after the project, their incomes would remain below
the national average and hence full cost recovery would impose an unduly
heavy burden on them. On the other hand, the large and medium size farmers,
owning some two-thirds of the cultivated land should be able to pay a higher
level of charges 1/. Thus, there may be an opportunity for collecting water
charges on a progressive basis, with the larger farms paying more per hectare
than the smaller farms. There are numerous possibilities for varying the
water charge to accomplish this objective, but, as a minimum, to assure the
continued operation of the project and to encourage farmers to economize in
the use of water, all beneficiaries should be required to pay at least the
annual O&M cost of NRs 535/ha. Assuming that for socio-political reasons the
maximum level of charges is constrained to be about twice that of the minimum
level, the capital recovery component could be graduated on a straight-line
basis starting at zero for the one hectare farm and increasing to NRs 365
for the 6 ha size farm and above. The revenue produced would be equal to
that which would result from the application of a uniform capital recovery
charge of NRs 265/ha. The average total annual charge, O&M cost plus capital
recovery, of NRs 800/ha would amount to 45% of project rent or 26% of incre-
mental net farm family income or about 10% of gross production value. Alter-
natively this would mean recovering full O&M costs and about 20% of the annual
capital cost of NRs 1,300/ha. Below, the water charges that would be levied
under the system on farms of varying sizes is shown:
Size of farm (ha)      0.68   1.0      2.0      3.0     4.0      5.0     6.0
Water charges % of
gross production
value                6.0    6.3      7.2      9.4    10.0    10.3    10.6
Water charge/ha
NRs                  535    535      615      800     850      880     900
5.21      While the graduation of water charges by size of farm would be
worthy of consideration it must be recognized that it presents problems.
The most obvious of these are:
1/   See para 3.06 for farm size distribution.



- 20 -
(i) evasion through excessive fragmentation of holdings --
large extended families are usually associated with
large farms;
(ii) disruption of social harmony among project participants
due to large farmers objecting to paying more than others
with likely negative impact on the adoption of improved
water management and cultural practices; and
(iii) administrative complexity.
5.22      In view of the above, there is a need for a thorough study of water
charges in Nepal including the levels required to recover the full operation
and maintenance cost and a reasonable portion of the capital costs having due
regard for farmer incentive and capacity to pay. Assurances were obtained
from HMGN that such a study would be made as part of the feasibility study
of the next groundwater development in the Terai.
5.23      In the absence of a Government policy on cost recovery and water
charges, in this case it was agreed to assess water charges starting one year
after completion of the works for each tubewell at the level required to cover
the annual operating costs, which would assure the continued operation of the
project after it is constructed, as well as a reasonable portion of the capi-
tal cost (cost of irrigation facilities am rtized in 30 years at 10% interest),
such water charges would be applied in progressive steps (incremental) over a
reasonable period of time. Assurances to this effect were obtained from HMGN.
It was also agreed that following the initial implementation of the plan, the
Government, in consultation with IDA, would review and revise, as necessary,
the level of charges and collection procedures at intervals of not more than
three years.
5.24      In addition to the direct payments to be made by the water users,
they would also make indirect payments through the rice procurement program
(para. 6.04). At full development, the annual savings to HMGN through this
procurement program (versus purchase at market price) would amount to
NRs 825,000 or NRs 110/ha. This amount could be considered as indirect pay-
ment by water users toward capital cost recovery.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Crop Calendars and Cropping Patterns
6.01      After completion of the project, paddy would continue to be the
dominant crop in the wet season, and the area under wheat would greatly
expand in the dry season. The availability of supplementary irrigation in
the wet season would increase the comparative advantage of HYV over local
paddy and together with intensified extension services would cause a shift
from local to HYV paddy.  The reliable water supply in the dry season would
also ensure successful cultivation of HYV wheat. There would also be some



- 21 -
increase in the area under pulses and oilseeds while potato cultivation
would cover about 250 ha. On the whole it is estimated that the cropping
intensity would increase from 118% at present to about 186%.
6.02      The present and projected cropping patterns are as follows
(Annex 10):
Crops              Present   Future Without Project   Future With Project
----------------------('000 ha)-----------------------
Paddy - local               7.4                7.2                       0.5
Paddy - HYV                 0.3                0.5                       6.7
Wheat - HYV                 1.1                1.1                       5.5
Maize                        -                  -                        0.2
Pulses                      0.4                0.4                       0.4
Oilseeds                    0.2                0.2                       0.3
Potatoes                     -                  _                        0.3
Sugarcane                   0.2               0.2                       0.1
Total Cropped Area          9.6               9.6                       14.0
Net Cultivated Area         8.1                8.1                       7.5
Cropping Intensity          118%               118%                     186%
Yields and Production
6.03      Estimated yields at present and at full development are summarized
below:
Crops              Present   Future Without Project   Future With Project
----------------------(tons/ha)-----------------------
Paddy - local               1.1                1.6                       2.7
Paddy - HYV                 1.8                2.4                       3.5
Wheat - HYV                 0.8                1.2                       3.0
Maize                        -                  -                        2.0
Pulses                      0.5                0.5                       0.8
Oilseeds                    0.4                0.4                       0.7
Potatoes                     -                  -                       10.0
Sugarcane                  25.0              30.0                       50.0
Some minor yield increases of paddy, wheat and sugarcane are assumed possible
without the project. With the project and at full development in Year Eight
(Year Five for any individual well) it is assumed that the yields of HYV paddy
would reach 3.5 tons/ha, wheat 3 tons/ha and sugarcane 50 tons/ ha. These
yields reflect significant increases in the use of fertilizer and extension
services following the provision of a dependable water supply. Production of
paddy would increase from 8,700 tons at present to 25,000 tons, wheat from 900
to 16,500 tons, pulses from 170 to 300 tons and oilseeds from 80 to 200 tons.
Also new crops of maize and potatoes would produce 400 and 2,500 tons respec-
tively. Production of sugarcane would remain at 5,000 tons although the area
would decrease from 200 to 100 ha.



- 22 -
Marketing and Processing
6.04      The construction of additional grain storage which would be ope-
rated by the NFC and the improvements of the feeder roads from the villages
to the major road network would add some flexibility to the marketing process,
but even with these improvements it is anticipated that the traditional mar-
keting practices would continue to be followed. After harvest, the farmers
would bring their crops to the market by pack animal or by ox cart. After
sacking the crops, the traders would sell the rice to the export companies
which would turn over a percentage (25% in 1975) to the NFC and sell the
balance of the rice as well as other crops, to the agents of Indian import-
ing firms. Transportation from Bhairawa to deficit areas in Nepal or to the
railhead in India would be by truck.
6.05      The rice milling industry is the oldest industry in Nepal, and
126 mills are now operating in the Rupandehi District. Of these, 26 mills
each have a milling capacity of 1/4 ton paddy per hour, 88 mills 1/2 ton
paddy, 11 mills 1 ton paddy and I mill 2 tons paddy per hour. Currently
there is a reserve capacity of about 40% which would be more than suffi-
cient to cope with the expected increase in production from the project
area. Moreover, two additional new mills are being constructed by the pri-
vate sector.
Prices
6.06      The farm gate prices used in the economic analysis were based on
the Bank's 1985 projections for internationally traded commodities -- rice,
wheat, maize and sugar; and the assumption that Nepal would continue to be
an exporter of foodgrains. Appropriate adjustments were made for quality
differences, handling and shipping to Northern India (Bihar, Uttar Pradesh
and West Bengal). Additional adjustments were also made to reflect the
cost of hulling, milling, transport and handling from the project farms to
Bhairawa, the local market center, and from there on to the northern India
market centers. The prices for those minor crops for which the long-term
projections were not available were based upon the historical relationship
between the local and international prices of rice and wheat.
6.07      The farm gate prices used in the financial analyses were based
upon the retail price in the Rupandehi District during the 1974/1975 har-
vest months, adjusted to the farm gate based upon published price spreads
between the farm and retail outlet. The prices thus derived were then in-
creased by 8% to bring them up to the December 1975 level (Annex 11).
Farm Income
6.08      Farm budgets were prepared for four representative farm sizes --
0.68 ha or one bigha, 1.0 ha, 2.04 ha or three bighas, and 6 ha or 9 bighas
to represent both the present and the future with project condition (para
3.06). District representatives of the MLR, which is responsible for the
administration of the land reform acts of 1959 and 1964, have indicated that
the program was fully implemented in the project area. Therefore, after



- 23 -
completion of the project, significant changes in sizes of farm operating
units are not expected to occur. In preparing these budgets, it was assumed
that subsidies for agricultural inputs would remain at current levels. The
annual net income including off-farm earnings, but before deduction of
irrigation costs, are shown below for the four representative farm sizes.
Farm Size        Present        Future With Project         Increase
(ha)            (NRs)                (NRs)                   (%)
0.68            1,588                4,261                   168
1.00            2,002                5,894                   194
2.04            3,072               10,459                   240
6.00            3,671               21,197                   477
6.09      In calculating the farm family income, cash payments for farm
inputs, hired labor (including that required for the maintenance of the
irrigation systems) and the rental charge of bullocks were all included as
production costs. Off-farm earnings which were included as income were
based upon the availability of unused family labor during peak labor seasons
when opportunities for employment on nearby larger farms would be available
(Annex 12).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
General
7.01      The development of the project would be compatible with the objec-
tives of the Fifth Five Year Plan. It would improve the incomes of those
farmers and their families in the project area who are now living in con-
ditions substantially below the poverty level, and it would increase the
opportunity for farm employment of landless laborers and the operators of
small farms in the project area as well as in Rupandehi District.
Foreign Exchange Earnings
7.02      Most of the present production of paddy and wheat in the project
area is used locally for food and seed; probably not over 1,000 tons goes
into commercial channels. It is anticipated, however, that after full devel-
opment a large part of the increase in production resulting from the project
would move into the commercial channels and would mainly be exported to India.
After taking account of the rice that would be acquired by the NFC under the
present compulsory procurement system to be shipped to food deficit areas
within Nepal, it is estimated that 3,400 tons of rice and 14,000 tons of wheat
would be available annually for export. This would produce foreign exchange
earnings of about US$2.4 million. After deduction of US$750,000 in foreign
exchange for the purchase of fertilizer and pesticides required for produc-
tion, the net foreign exchange earning due to the project would be about
US$1.7 million.



- 24 -
Income Distribution
7.03      The average annual per capita income, including off-farm earnings,
for the people presently living in the project area is about US$37 compared
to the national average of US$100. Moreover, depending upon the size of farm,
there is a large variation in income within the project area. This is illus-
trated in the table below.
Income/Person      /1
Farm Size            Population           Present               FWP
(ha)             (no)        (%)        ---------(US$)---------
/2    /3    /2    /3    /4
0.68              8,325        37         17`-  25-  62-/  68-  60-
1.00              5,400        24         25    32    91    94    83
2.00              5,175        23         48    49   167   167   144
6.00              3,600        16         59    59   339   339   269
TOTAL or Avr./5            22,500       100         32    37   137   140   121
/1   Future with project.
/2   Excluding off-farm income.
/3   Including off-farm income.
/4   After payment of water charges (NRs 725/ha in cash and NRs 75/ha in
labor) and including off-farm income.
/5   Weighted.
It is apparent from the table that the income distribution is badly skewed;
over one-third of the people in the project area receive farm incomes of
US$17 or less (US$25 with off-farm income) and an additional quarter receives
annual incomes of between US$17 and US$25 (US$25 to US$32 with off-farm in-
come). In all, about 80% of the farm population receive annual incomes of
US$50 or less which is the minimum required to provide the basic essential
for family living (NRs 3,100 for a family of five). This project is expected
to have a major impact on the standard of living of project area farmers.
Under conditions of full development with the project, the incomes of all
families having farms of 0.50 ha or larger (about 75% of project area popu-
lation) would exceed the poverty level of US$50 per person.
Employment Opportunities
7.04      The large expansion of the wheat hectarage during the dry season
and the shift from local to HYV of paddy during the wet season, as well as
the expansion in the acreage of minor crops, would result in a substantial
increase in the farm labor requirements and opportunities for employment on
the project farms. It is anticipated that with the project there would be
a requirement for about 2,260,000 man days of labor per year within the proj-
ect area which would represent an increase of 100% over that which could be
expected in the future without the project. Assuming 300 working days per



- 25 -
workers would be hired. If valued at the opportunity cost of labor (NRs 4.7
per day) this would add the equivalent of about NRs 5 million annually to the
farm labor payroll. It is anticipated that about 25% of this increased pay-
roll would go to the operators of small farms, and that perhaps as much as
40% to other farmers within the Rupandehi District. The balance or about
35% would go to seasonal laborers brought in from India (Annex 13). (The
returns to the operator and his family for the increased labor they would
perform on their own farms is reflected in the increased farm income,
Annex 12, Page 4).
7.05      The marketing, processing, transportation and distribution of the
increased production of agricultural products that goes into commercial
channels would also result in significant increases in opportunities for
employment of the urban population, principally in Bhairawa.
Rate of Return
7.06      The rate of return which is estimated at 19% is based upon the
following:
(a) benefits measured in terms of future increases in net
farm income over that which would occur without the
project;
(b) a 30-year period of analysis; residual value of drilling
rigs was recognized;
(c) 1985 world market price expressed in 1976 currency values;
(d) incremental farm labor valued at the alternative opportunity
cost of NRs 4.7 per day;
(e) price contingencies, production credit and the cost of the
investigation of the second stage excluded from capital cost;
(f) cultivators provide labor to maintain the irrigation and
drainage system;
(g) energy for pumping costed at the marginal cost of NRs 0.25
per kWh;
(h) replacements for the pumps every five years and the turbines
in 15 years;
(i) a four-year construction period;
(j) full agricultural production under each well in Year Five
(Year Eight for total project); and
(k) the benefits resulting from increased employment in
agriculture and in the urban areas excluded.



- 26 -
Sensitivity Analysis
7.07      Several tests were made to determine the sensitivity of the
project to varying assumptions regarding both benefits and costs:
Rate of Return
(%)
(a) a decrease of 20% in projected
benefits                                             15
(b) an increase of 20% in the capital
cost of the project                                  16
(c) a delay of one year in the reali-
zation of benefits                                   16
(d) all incremental farm labor valued
at going wage rate of NRs 6 per day                  18
(e)  combination of (a) and (b)                            13
(f)  combination of (b) and (c)                            14
(g)  combination of (a), (b) and (c)                       11
(h) shadow pricing of exchange rate
at NRs 15 to US$1.00                                 23
7.08      The project rate of return is more sensitive to the magnitude of
the benefits than the increase in project cost or delay in the realization of
benefits. A delay in the benefits by one year or an increase in the capital
cost by 20% had less effect on the rate of return than a reduction of 20% in
the project benefits. However, even if the benefits were to be reduced by
20% and delayed by one year and at the same time the capital costs were to be
increased by a like percentage, the project would still be economically viable.
The significance of the magnitude of the benefits in the analyses underscores
the need to provide all the necessary inputs including extension on a timely
basis (Annex 14). It should, however, be noted that the yields and production
at full development, and hence the benefits, assumed in the analysis are
conservative.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreements on the following points were reached with HMGN:
(a) it would make adequate budgetary provisions to the agencies
involved to cover their share of the project cost and that it
would furnish to IDA annually a detailed plan for the imple-
mentation of the project with related financial requirements
for the following fiscal year (para. 4.13);



- 27 -
(b)  contracts for civil works would not be awarded until HMGN
had acquired the necessary land or rights-of-way (para.
4.15);
(c)  the DIHM and other participating organizations responsible
for carrying out any part of the project would: (i) estab-
lish and maintain separate accounts for the project in
accordance with sound accounting practices. Such accounts
would be audited annually by an independent auditor ac-
ceptable to IDA, and (ii) certified copies of the audited
accounts and the auditor's reports would be sent to IDA
within six months of the close of each fiscal year (para.
4.17);
(d)  drilling of any individual tubewell would not be commenced
until the potential beneficiaries representing two-thirds
of the service area had signed up in a Water Users group
and agreed to pay water charges (para 5.01);
(e)  for purposes of implementing the project, it would expand
the GRDB to include representatives of NEC and the Ministry
of Home and Panchayat (para. 5.03);
(f)  if any farmer had not carried out the construction of field
channels, drains and land development as contemplated in
para. 4.05 within one year following the completion of
the project water delivery and drainage networks, the
DIHM would carry out such work and charge the cost to
the farmer involved and water would not be released to
any individual farm unit until such work had been com-
pleted (para. 5.06);
(g)  it would make adequate provision in the annual budgets to
finance the 0 & M of the various project components in
accordance with sound technical standards (para. 5.06);
(h)  it would recruit and appoint an ADADO and 63 PLAAs and four
Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) to work for agricultural
extension services in the project areas in addition to the
existing staff (para. 5.09);
(i)  AIC would make agricultural inputs available in sufficient
quantity to meet the needs of the project (para 5.12);
(j)  it would make funds available to meet the agricultural
production credit needs of the project farmers (para.
5.13);



- 28 -
(k) the BLGPO would monitor the effect of pumping on the ground-
water aquifers both during and following the completion of
construction. In addition, the ADADO would monitor the
agricultural production and benefits that result from
the project. Reports covering both activities would be sent
to IDA annually but not later than December 31 (para. 5.16);
(1) it would make a thorough study of water charges in Nepal
including the level of such charges required to recover the
full operation and maintenance cost and reasonable portion
of the capital costs, having due regard to farmer incentive
and capacity to pay (para. 5.22);
(m)  beginning not later than one year after completion of the
works of each tubewell, the Government should establish and
collect water charges to recover the full annual operating
costs --energy, operation, maintenance and contribution to
replacement reserve-- and having due regard to the incen-
tives and capacity of such farmers to pay, a reasonable
portion of the capital cost of the irrigation facilities
in progressive steps (incremental) over a reasonable per-
iod of time (para. 5.23); and
(n) the Government in consultation with IDA, would review and revise,
as necessary, the level of charges and collection procedures at
intervals of not more than three years (para. 5.23).
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) a PM with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA
should have been appointed (para. 5.02);
(b) the PCC chaired by the CDO with District level officers
and representatives of all participating agencies as members
or associate members shall have been established (para 5.04);
and
(c) a firm of consultants shall have been selected to assist
with project implementation, preparation of a feasibility
study for a further groundwater development and a study
of water charges (para. 5.05).
8.03      With the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$9 million under standard IDA terms. The Borrower
would be the Kingdom of Nepal.
June 17, 1976



ANNEX 1
Page  1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBI.NI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Agricultural Development
The Role of the Agriculture Sector
1.        Agriculture dominates the economy of Nepal.  It provides employment
to 94% of the population, generates two-thirds of GDP and accounts for about
80% of export earnings. The major exports are rice, raw jute and jute manu-
facture. Foodgrain production has grown at less than 1% annually since the
mid-1960s, while the population has been growing at 2% to 2.4% p.a. Accord-
ingly, the near stagnant production and an increase in population, estimated
at 12.6 million in 1975, has brought down the rice export surplus from a half
million tons around the beginning of the 1960s to an estimated 200,000 tons at
present. Production of other crops has also declined considerably.
2.        Therefore, the Fifth Five-Year Plan of HMGN (1975-80) gives prior-
ity to the agricultural sector for securing increased production, as agricul-
ture in addition to provision of food, has potential for creating employment
opportunities and generating foreign exchange.
Agricultural Development Problems
3.        The total area of Nepal is about 14.1 M ha of which only about 2 M
ha are cultivated. Agriculture in general, is characterized by subsistence
farming with much of the land under foodgrain production. The topography is
most varied.  Geographically, the country is divided into three roughly parallel
strips, each running generally from east and west. The southern most strip
called the Terai, an extension of the Gangetic plain of North India, covers
about 17% of the total area, while the central strip or hills cover about 68%,
and the northern most strip consisting of the great Himalayan Range, the re-
maining 15%. About 70% of the cultivated area is located in the Terai Plains
and only 30% in the Hills and very little in the mountains. Population pres-
sure on the land resource is highest in hilly and mountainous areas which sup-
port about 60% of the country's population. This pressure has forced people
from the hills and mountainous areas to attempt to cultivate marginal land on
steep hill slopes and/or to migrate to the Terai and beyond.
4.        To increase agricultural production, the Fifth Five-Year Plan gives
emphasis on intensive land use and higher yields. This is to be achieved by:
accelerating the spread of seed-based technology involving improved cultural
practices; increasing the use of HYV seed--particularly of paddy and wheat--
and of fertilizers and pesticides; and implementing the irrigation schemes for
which feasibility studies were initiated during the Fourth Plan.
29



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Crops and Cropping Seasons
5.        The total cropped area in Nepal is about 2.33 M ha which on a
net cultivated area of about 1.98 M ha gives a cropping intensity of 118%.
Paddy accounts for 51% of the total cropped area, maize 19%, wheat 10%,
barley and millet 6%, and other crops comprising oilseeds, pulses, jute,
potato, sugarcane, tobacco and horticultural crops the remaining 14%. The
area under tea is negligible being only about 500 ha, and it is located in
the eastern region.
6.        There is only one crop of wet season paddy, the temperature in
winter being too cold to raise a second crop of paddy. About 85% of the
paddy area is located in the Terai and only 15% in the hills. Nursery and
seed-bed preparation starts with the onset of the rainy season in May and
June. Mostly traditional varieties are grown. Coarse varieties that mature
in 120 to 150 days from seeding are planted first and harvested in October
and early November. Long life fine varieties which have an average growth
period of 150 to 180 days are usually transplanted in July and harvested in
November-December. The early maturing varieties give lower yields (0.8 to 1
t/ha) because of lack of sunlight and heavier infestation of pests and
diseases, while the long life varieties give higher yields (1 to 2 t/ha).
7.        High yielding varieties of paddy have been introduced since the
late 1960s and presently cover about 7% to 8% of the paddy area. They in-
clude IR-8, IR-22, IR-20 and Mashowli for which particulars are given in
Table 2. Their yields are two to three times that of the local variety.
Expansion of HYV paddy is, however, mostly being done in the irrigated areas
where reliable water supplies justify application of inputs and ensure good
crops.
8.        Maize is cultivated mostly in the hills which accounts for 65% of
the area under maize while the Terai Plains account for only 35% of the area.
In the Terai it is usually sown in March-April and harvested in June-July.
The yield is about 1 to 1.2 t/ha.
9.        The most important winter foodgrain is wheat which is usually grown
with residual moisture after paddy or maize. It gives higher yields if two
or three irrigations can be given after sowing. At present, about 48% of the
area under wheat is located in the hills and 52% in the Terai Plains. But
the area under wheat is expanding in the Terai with increased irrigation
facilities e.g. from The Birganj Project and the ADBN financed artesian wells.
It is usually sown in November-December and harvested in March-April in the
Terai. The yield from the non-irrigated crop is low being only about 0.7 to
1.0 t/ha while the yield from the irrigated crop is two or three times as
much.
30



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Agricultural Inputs
10.       The distribution of improved seed has increased from practically
nothing about ten years ago to about 300 tons HYV paddy, 50 tons of maize
and 1,500 tons HYV wheat annually during the last three years. There is
a good system of seed multiplication, procurement and distribution.
11.       The fertilizer use has also increased from about 400 tons nutrient
in 1964-65 to about 12,500 tons nutrient in 1974-75 as shown below:
Fertilizer Use in Nepal
(nutrient tons)
Nitrogen       Phosphate    Potash    Total
1964-65                                342             90          12      444
Average 1965-66 to 1967-68           1,797            554         143    2,494
Average 1968-69 to 1970-71          4,348           1,360         277    5,985
Average 1971-72 to 1974-75          8,541           3,055         946   12,542
There has also been an encouraging improvement in the use of balanced fer-
tilizer as the NPK ratio has increased from 100:31:8 in 1965-68 to 100:36:11
in 1971-75.
12.       Records are not available to indicate the quantity of plant protec-
tion materials used. But the expenditure on the plant protection materials
has increased from NRs 21,000 in 1965-66 to NRs 610,000 in 1974-75.
June 1976
31



NEPAL
BiAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Area Under Main Crops in Nepali!
('000 ha)
1964-65   1965-66   1966-67   1967-68   1968-69   1969-70   1970-71   1971-72   1972-73   1973-74
1.  Paddy                   1,101      1,111      1,100      1,154      1,172     1,173      1,122      1,204      1,140      1,213
2   Maize                     437        451        450        412        421        433        445        435        438        442
3.  Wheat                     100        118        126        192        208        208        228        247        260        270
4.  Barley                     24         27         27         23         26         26         27         28         27         28
5.  Millet                     96        100        100        102        109        112        115        115        121        124
6.  Sugarcane                   9         13         10         11         12         13         14         15         15         15
7.  Jute                       32         32         32         47         46         52         55         60         55         33
8.  Oilseed                   108         96         98         97        101        103        106        111        117        114
9.  Tobacco                     8          8          8          9          9          9          9          9          9         10
10.  Potatoes       2           29         42         43         43         43         46         49         51         51         53
11.  Others (Pulses.3
horticultural
cropo, etc.)             95        100       100        110        110        110        120        120        100        130
Total cropped area    2,039        2,098      2,094     2,200      2,257      2,285      2,290      2,395      2,333      2,432
Net cultivated area   1,800        1,800      1,800     1,880      1,900      1,940      1,940      1,960      1,980      1,980
Cropping intensity       113%       116%       116%      117%       118%       118%       118%        122%      118%        123%
Source: 1/ Agricultural Marketing Services Department, Nepal.
2/  Mission estimates.
CD' 



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-UIMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Recommended HYV for the Terai Plains
Days to        Height         Yield      Eating
Name of HYV             Source        Maturity         (cm)        (Kg/ha)      Quality                Remarks
A.  Paddy
1.  Parwanipur 1        Nepal            125            86          7,800         Fair         Susceptible to paddy blast
and blight.
2.  IR-8                IRRI             140            90          8,100        Coarse        Susceptible to paddy blast
and blight.
3.  IR-22               IRRI             146            90          9,800         Good         Susceptible to paddy blast
and blight.
4.  IR-20               IRRI             152           100          7,800         Good         Good resistance to paddy
blast and bacterial blight.
5.  IR-22               India            165           142          8,500       Very Good      Good resistance to paddy
blast and bacterial blight.
B.  Wheat
1.  RR-21               India         108-128         84-102        4,300       Very Good      Less occurance of yellow smut
but susceptible to loose smut.
2.  Kalyan Sona         India         115-134         75-87         4,200       Very Good      Less susceptible to yellow
and loose smut.
3.  S  331              India         115-129         91-106        4,400         Good         Less susceptible to yellow,
but susceptible to loose smut.
03
4.  Nt 30               Nepal         108-122         85-95         4,500         Good         Less susceptible to yellow,          &10
but susceptible to loose smut.    *
w



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-UMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Climatic Data
A. Mean monthly rainfall (mm)                                                                                        Record
Station            Jan    Feb   Mar   Apr    May    June    July    Aug    Sept    Oct    Nov    Dec         Total    Years
Sirha             24.3   10.1  15.4  23.h  96.7  227.4   367.0  367.5  118.6  75.8   15.6   1.6    1 343               19
Bairia            25.5   10.2  16.5   26.0   57.h  228.8   430.6  Woh.2  20o.1  52.4   11.0  10.5    1,477              11
Bhairawa          15.0  10.0  15.0  20.0  40.0   280.0   430.0  270.0  110.0  30.0    -              -       1,220      6
Butwal            18.0   12.9  16.4  27.0   62.8  423.0   726.7  703.0  h03.4  116.0  11.5   h.7             2,525     17
Darbhan.a
(India)      19.8   1L.5   10.0  20.h   57.3   190.4    329.4   291.2  2h6.7   69.6   6.5   1.7         1,257     10
Patna (India)     21.1  20.2    6.7    8.2   28.3   139.0    265.5  307.1  2112.5    62.8   5.7   2.4        1,109     30
Muzzafatpur
(India)    15.0   16.8    8.h  13.7   51.3   178.1   315.0   322.6  223.3    58.h   7.1   3.1          1,212      5o
B. Monthly rainfall at Bairia    80% dependable
0      0      0      0     35     180       195     220    180      15      0     0         825
(D> 
CD



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Climatic Data
C. Potential evaporation at Hardenath (mm)
Jan   Feb   Mar   April May   June  July  Aug    Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec  Total
71.6  77.6  176.7  220.8  233.4  156.6  155.3  139.5  135.9  112.2  78.6  65.7  1,624
D. Monthly sunshine at Parwanipur (hr:min/day)                                                    Mean
8:03   8:49   7:50  8:48   10:18  5:14  5:o0   6:17   6:57    9:07   9:11   8:55  7:53
0
E. Air temperature at Bhairawa ( c)
Mean monthly    16.0  17.0  21.0  26.0  30.5  29.0  28.5  28.0  28.0   27.0  24.5  15.0
Mean monthly    23.0  25.5  30.5  36.0  38.5  35.0  33.0  32.5  32.0   31.0  28,5   24.5
maximum
Mean monthly
minimum      6.o   8.0  11.5  19.0  22.0  23.0  25.0  24.5  24.0   23.0  19.0   7.5
F. Relative humidity at Parwanipur (% at 08:40 hrs)                                                Mean
83.6   73.5  71.5  71.0  65.5  83.5  83.0  88.0  85.o   80.0  78.0  85.0  79.0
LO)



ANNEX 3
Page 1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Project Works
A. Past Development
1.        Existing farmer--built and operated surface water development
consists of a number of diversions from the right and left bank of the
River Tinao along the reach just below the bifurcation of the Tinao and
Dano rivers. The diversions lead into unlined and unregulated canal
systems. The gross command area of the surface water system is about
7,000 ha of which some 5,000 ha lies within the proposed project area.
During recent years, there has been minor public expenditure on the system,
particularly in renovating and preserving the intakes. The existing
private sector groundwater development consists of small diameter (1-1/2
to 3 inches) flowing wells in that part of the area where artesian pres-
sures are adequate. The wells were drilied by hand to a maximum dSpth of
60 m. Discharges range from 0.5 to 20 m /hr and average about 6 m /hr;
command areas are generally less than one hectare. The total area present-
ly perennially irrigated by small diameter wells within the project area
totals 80 to 100 ha while perhaps 300 ha are irrigated by this means in the
general vicinity of the project area.
2.        In the early 1960s, HMGN, completed a diversion weir on the River
Tinao near Butwal together with a left bank canal to irrigate 12,000 ha in
the southern part of the Lumbini Terai. However, the system never operated
because the right bank approach embankment was breached and the river by-
passed the structure, isolating it from the canal. The system has not been
repaired.
3.        During the past five years, the DIHM, Groundwater Division has
carried out an exploratory drilling program to obtain data on the alluvial
aquifer system which underlies the Lumbuni Terai. Wells range in diameter
from 3 to 14 inches and the greater proportion were drilled in the flowing
artesian zone. Some sixteen of the wells are located in the proposed project
area. A few of the exploratory wells are utilized for public water supply
and Government centers; the balance are not used.
B. Present Problems
4.        The farmers' existing surface water irrigation system depends on
base flows in the River Tinao, an unstable spate stream, which decreases
throughout the dry season. Moreover, there is considerable inter-annual
36



ANNEX 3
Page 2
variation in monthly flows. The intakes are capable of diverting only a
small proportion of the low flows and are difficult to maintain under high
flow conditions. Transmission losses in the conveyance systems are high.
Actual flows in the canals are too small to serve adequately the nominal
command areas. Thus, especially in the lower parts of the command areas
irrigation becomes increasingly uncertain as the dry season progresses.
5.        The small diameter flowing wells have a short life (maximum five
years) and are subject to sudden failure due to collapse of clay around the
entry point to the pipe. Their discharge varies over the year with the
artesian headed by up to 30% to 50% of the high discharge. Their continued
effectiveness is contingent on maintaining sufficient positive head to
ensure the required discharge which limits extraction in any area. The
wells cannot be shut down due to the possibility of well failure and part
of the flow often escapes to the surface in the annulus between casing
and formation; this leads to an extremely wasteful use of water. The small
discharges, which are not regulated, can only be conveyed for short distances
in the canal systems.
C. Description of Project Works
6.        The project which would be located to the south of the farmer's
surface water irrigation area would include provision of: electrically
operated deep tubewells with night storage reservoirs and irrigation and
drainage networks for 63 individual 120 ha command areas; 75 km of 11 kV
electric power transmission lines with stepdown transformers at each tube-
well; approximately 70 km of village link roads; a 1,000 ton grain storage
facility at Bhairawa; project offices, workshop, agricultural extension
service training center buildings; and consulting services for technical
assistance. These consulting services would:
(a)       assist planning and implementation of project works
including detailed surveys and investigation, and
(b)       conduct feasibility studies for further groundwater
projects.
Irrigation and Drainage System
7.        Well Field and Well Design.  Some sixty-three wells are required at
a spacing of 1,300 m. This would incur well interference, particularly
in the artesian area. The additional drawdown accruing from interference
and the drawdown with time which would occur as the piezometry adjusts to
the new water balance has been allowed for in the well design which permits
pump setting of 40 to 50 m.
37



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        The wells would range in depth from 120 to 200 m, the shallower
wells being in the north with increasing depth to the south as the propor-
tion of clay beds in the section increases. For the purpose of cost esti-
mates, the wells have been grouped into 120, 160 and 200 m depth groups
with 6, 23 and 34 wells in each group, respectively.
9.        The wells would be drilled by the direct circulation, rotary
mud flush technique. Heavy mud would be required to control artesian flows
while drilling in some parts of the area. A percussion drilling adaption
could be required if boulders are encountered in the northern part of the
area.
10.       A typical well design consists of:  an 18 inch diameter conductor
pipe of mild steel to a depth of 10 m which would be grouted; a pumping
chamber of 14 inches internal diameter to depth of 40 to 50 m of heavy duty
casing American Petroleum Institute equivalent (API); the annulus between
the drilled hole and the casing pressure grouted to prevent upward leakance
of water under artesian pressure; a fiberglass liner of screen and casing
of a 10 inch outside diameter, of the length of 80-160 m; design 30-40 m of
screen with 2 mm slots and a minimum open area of 10%. Because the aquifer
material contains a considerable proportion of gravel grade, natural develop-
ment would be possible without gravel packing.  Assuming a unit permeability
of 100 m/dy and a screened length of 30 m, a 100% efficient well would pro-
duce 300 m /hr for a drawdown at the well of about 3 m. Assuming a well
efficiency of 70%, implies a drawdown at the well of 4.5 m. See Fig. 1.
11.       Well Completion.  After evacuating drilling mud from a completed
well by circulation of clean water, development would proceed using the
following techniques:
(a)  flushing and screen jetting using a proper chemical
solution; and
(b)  pumping and surging using an airlift pump and the
rig slush pump alternately.
The wells would be pumped by airlift or by turbine pump at 350 m /hr until
the water is sand-free to complete development. The following well tests
would be carried out:
(a) constant yield-drawdown and recovery test, the well
being pumped at 300 m3/hr for 24 hours.
(b) a step-drawdown test in three or four steps.
38



ANNEX 3
Page 4
12.       A temporary arrangement of piping and valves could be required
to control artesian flows in part of the area during the early stages of
project implementation.
13.       Pumping Equipment.  The pump would be a vertical shaft turbine,
water lubricated pump with a vertical drive head, a 12 incq diameter pump,
barrel and a 10 inch diameter rising main to deliver 300 m /hr against a
head of 30 m. The turbine would be selected to give reasonable efficiency
over the widest possible range of working heads up to 30 m. The prime
mover would be a 380/440 volt, 35 KVA, 50 cycle electric motor geared for
vertical drive of the above pump. Ancillary equipment includes automatic
control for starter, no-float control for starter, time control for starter
and electrical relays and meters.
14.       Pump House.  The pump house would be constructed of brick walls
and concrete slab roof of sufficient height to allow pulling of 1.5 m
length sections of rising main using a traveling beam and chain block to
be set permanently below the roof. The well head would be completed with
a concrete plinth one meter square by 0.2 m thick. The building would
have a concrete floor.
15.       Night Storage Reservoir.  The tubewell would pump directly into
a 2,000 m3 capacity clay-lined earth reservoir which would fill automatically
under the control of a non-flote system attached to the electric prime mover
of the turbine pump. A pre-set time relay would cut out pumping during
peak electricity system demand hours.
16.       Irrigation and Drainage Networks (Map 12074).  From the night
storage reservoir, each typical 120 ha tubewell command area would be
served by distributary canals built of selected earth fill material and
earth drains, down to each 5 ha block of and. Within the 5 ha blocks
farmers would, under the guidance of the project authority, improve their
existing small ditch network (which was constructed to distribute and
remove natural rainfall) to enable better distribution to each plot as
well as for more effective drainage. The project distributaries would
have a conveyance capacity of 1.3 1/s/ha to facilitate rotational irriga-
tion. The drains which would have a 4 1/s/ha discharge capacity would
remove excess monsoon flooding to the existing north-south rivers and
streams and create conditions more suitable for higher paddy yields and
for planting wheat after paddy. The average channel network density would
be about 100 m/ha for distributaries and 60 m/ha for drains.  The main
distributary channels would be flanked by a 1.5 m wide access path suit-
able for bicycles to enable operation and maintenance supervision. The
drains would be provided with appropriate checks, falls, division, drain-
age, water control structures and cattle crossings constructed of masonry
and reinforced concrete.
39



ANNEX 3
Page 5
17.       Because the irrigation and drainage channel works would be small
in scale, scattered, labor-intensive and would have to be scheduled to suit
weather conditions and farming operations, as far as possible, they would
be constructed by small contracts. They would be designed and their con-
struction supervised by project engineering staff assisted by the project
consultants.
Other Project Works
18.       Village Roads (Map 12075).  About 70 km of 3.5 m width village
link roads would be improved, realigned and extended to improve access for
project services, and to assist transport farmers' produce to market and
import of agricultural inputs. The roads would be of selected earth fill
and surfaced with 30 cm of graded gravel finish to enable year-round use
for farm tractors and field vehicles. Whenever technically and economically
possible, the improved roads would be located within existing HMGN road
reserves. Roads would be constructed under small and medium contracts
procured under LCB, and timed to suit weather and agricultural conditions.
19.       Land Acquisition.  The HMGN would acquire the necessary land for
irrigation, drainage, road networks and would obtain way-leaves for the
11 kV electric power transmission line at least nine months ahead of the
beginning of construction.
20.       11 kV Electric Transmission (Map 12075).  About 75 km of 11 kV
power line, with step down transformers (11 kV/0.40 kV) at each tubewell,
would be extended from the existing 33 kV network to provide electric
power to each of the 63 tubewells. These works would be planned, designed
and constructed by NEC under LCB.
21.       Project Equipment.  Because most works would be constructed
mainly under contract, vehicles and equipment would be needed only for
surveys, investigations, supervision, operation and maintenance, and
for the agricultural supporting services. These are listed in Annex 7.
Vehicles for consultants are also included in the list.
22.       Buildings.  The project would construct a 1,000 ton capacity
grain store near Bhairawa town. This would provide a central facility
for NFC operations. As and when required, it would also provide overspill
storage for other agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, improved seeds
and plant chemicals. Other project buildings would include small extensions
to the DIHM and DA Bhairawa Research Farm; the latter would be of inexpensive
traditional construction and would include simple accommodation for farmers'
and staff residential training courses.
40



ANNEX 3
Page 6~
23.       Monitoring.  HMGN would direct ADADO and the Food and Agri-V
culture Marketing Services Department in working with the BLGPO to monitgr
project inputs, measure project benefits and to carry out reguar ,ecanomic
evaluation of the project. Monitoring would include continuing 4soessmeqt
of:  project costs; crop yields and production; labor employmeit; ue and
cost of agricultural inputs; supply and utililation of water, and i4entiif
cation of constraints to fuller development. The BLGPO would alpo conttnr
uously monitor the affect of pumping on the groundwater aqVdfer,
D. Surveys, Investigations, Planning and Techni4c AsAistance
Status of Engineering Design
24.       During the 1975 studies which were adequate tO establish the
feasibility of the project, the following were completed; area-wide plans
ning of village roads networks and drainage outfalls; semi-detailed soils
surveys; well field and tubewell design; irrigation and drainage network
designs in four typical irrigation service areas; and preliminary dsi4ns
of the 11 kV electric network and project buildings.
25.       Prior to project execution, detailed surveys, planning, enait"
neering designs, specifications, bidding documents and bid evaluation would
have to be completed on a phased program (Annex 6) for all prqject works
described in Section C. Civil, electrical and mechanical engineering of
the irrigation and drainage networks, tubewells and project buil4in;* would
be the responsibility of DIHM. The NEC would be
responsible for 11 kV electric power transmission system.
Consulting Services
26.       Due to its extensive irrigation development program including
complex projects scattered throughout the country (Appendix 1), HKGN i8
short of experienced technical staff for investigations? planning and
construction supervision.  The project would, therefore, prov4e thpical
assistance in the form of consulting services both for project inplementa"
tion and for feasibility studies of future groundwater development. Outline
Terms of Reference for the employment of consultants are given in Appendix g
and estimated costs are in Annex 7, Table 5.
27.       Project Implementation.  The project would provide 180 man-months
of consulting services in groundwater engineering, mapping, civil? meqhaniqai
and engineering design, construction supervision and procurement. Vetng the
existing 1:12,000 scale aerial mapping, the consultants would assist the DIHg
in preparing 1:5,000 scale one meter contour basic planning maps.  In-fill
detail would be completed by DIHM topographic survey technicians and AD soil
surveyors with consultants' assistance.
41



ANNEX 3
Page 7
28.       Feasibility Studies.  The project could be replicable in com-
parable adjacent areas of the Lumbini Terai. About 54 man-months of
consulting services would be required to prepare a 15,000-20,000 ha
scale groundwater project; this work would involve topographic mapping
and groundwater investigation over a gross 50,000 ha area to be completed
within two years and would include a study of water charges in Nepal.
Planning and Development of Irrigation Service Areas and Formation of Water
Users Groups
29.       Development of irrigation service units would be on a well by
well command basis. To ensure that the project would be operated and main-
tained efficiently and the project costs recovered in timely fashion, it
would be necessary prior to well drilling to enroll prospective beneficia-
ries, and obtain agreement from these future beneficiaries, covering at
least 66% of the 120 ha, an to form a water users group, with powers to levy
water charges and guarantee cooperative rotational operation and maintenance
down to the 5 ha turnout level.
30.       Development would commence with DIHM (topographic) DA (soils) and
District Administration/Panchayat (cadastral) detailed surveys to delineate
the precise boundaries of each 120 ha service area. The whole process would
be carefully coordinated by the PM who would be assisted by the PCC.
31.       Following the boundary definition, the CDO and his staff would
obtain farmer beneficiary agreements to the irrigation water users group
rules and powers and to repayment of water charges. A farmer beneficiary
refusing to sign up would be excluded from project services and facilities.
The CDO would adjust irrigation service area boundaries to suit the particular
organizational circumstances. No service area would extend beyond the bounda-
ries of a single panchayat. The water user groups would be organized under
the Irrigation, Electricty and Related Water Resources Act of 1967.
June 1976
42



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
List aof IrrIn cl i   jectsTIcluded in Fifth Five-Year Plan
___ytin-
Name of Irrigation Project
1.  Kankai Irrigation Projects                               5,ooo
2. West Kosi Canal                                          11,000
.3.  Kamla Irrigation ProJect (lst phase)                   21,600
4.  Chitwan Irrigation Project                              11,000
5,  Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Proiect            29,430
6. Bananga Irrigation Project                                6,ooo
7. Mahakali Irrigation Projects (2nd phase)                  7,000
8.  Western Gandak Project                                  16,000
9. Tubewell Irrigation Project
a) Kailali, Kanchanpur Districts                      8,000
b) Rupawedhi Districts (0hairawa-Lumbini
Groundwater Project)                               8,000
c) Janakpur Districts                                    420
d) Bara Parsa Districts                                2,750
10,  Phewa Dam Reconstruction                                   320
11.  1anchan Pand frrigation Project                         10,000
12.  Chour-ahari Hill Irrigation Project                        400
13.  Chapakot Hill          It      it                        2,000
14.  Hadetar   "             "                                  200
I$.  Kathe Kulo  Hill                                           466
16. Ramgha Tar   "           "t                                 2h4
J,71 Deadgaon Tar Hill      "I      ti                          200
18. Manusmara Irrigation Project (2nd phase)                  2,000
19'  Kanchhami Irrigation Pro.ect                               4Oo
20.  Renovation of Panchayat Level Local Canals               1,000
21.  New Hill Irrigation Protects                             2,000
43



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Consulting Services
Draft Terms of Reference
I. Objectives
1.        Consulting services are required by the Department of Irrigation,
Hydrology and Meteorology, and the Department of Agriculture to assist and
advise them in the implementation of the Bhairawa Groundwater Project.
In broad terms, the consultant shall provide:
(i) the plans, designs, specifications, tender documents and
construction supervision for the tubewell irrigation
facilities to serve a net area of 7,500 ha, for 70 km
of village link roads and for a 1,000 ton grain store;
(ii) advisory services to the Project Director on management,
accounting, and monitoring of the effect of the project
on the groundwater aquifers;
(iii) advisory services to the Soil Survey Division of the DA
on soil surveys (irrigability land classification);
(iv) advisory service to the Assistant District Agricultural
Development Officer, in charge of extension relating
to on-farm water management, monitoring project effects
on agriculture and rural families; and
(v) a feasibility report for a further groundwater develop-
ment project on the Western Terai to serve 15,000 to 20,000
ha to be selected from a gross project area of approximately
50,000 ha including a study of water charges in Nepal.
2.        HMGN would provide appropriate full-time professional or
technical personnel as counterparts to work with the consultants.
During the course of the consultants' undertakings, the counterpart
professional and technical personnel would be trained and guided in
their performance by the consultants.
44



ANNEX 3
Appendi x 2
Page 2
3.        Consultant services (235 man-months) would be provi4ed over a
four-year period ending June 30, 1980.
II. Responsibilities of the Consultant
4.        Mapping and Survey.  The consultant shall advise and assi8 t in
the following:
(a) preparation of maps of the project area on a scale of
1:5,000 with 1.0 m contours;
(b) staking on the ground the alignments of all irrigation
canals and channels (down to 5 ha service blocks) drainage
canals and village roads with permanent benchmarks at
appropriate intervals;
(c) carrying out staking surveys to demarcate the boundaries
of lands to be acquired by HMGN for the construction of
all project facilities;
(d) preparation of all maps and survey drawings to be used
for planning, design, land acquisition and easements.
5.        Engineering $ervices.  The conpultant's responsibillties shall
include:
(a) assist in the formation of water user groups and the siting
of wells;
(b)  assist in the preparation of detailed specifications and
tender documents suitable for use by the PM in international
competitive bidding for drill rigs, casing, pumps, turbines,
switch gear and appurtenant works for the 63 tubewells and.
after receipt of tenders, assist in the evaluation of
same and make recommendations for award;
(c) supervise the drilling of the wells, the installation of
the casing, the testing of the wells and the installation
of turbines, motors and control equipment to agsure proper
performance;
(d)  assist in the selection of the location for the village 2In1
roads and in the preparation of the designs and specifications
for such roads, and supervision of their construction;
45



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 3
(e) assist in (i) the preparation of designs and specifications
suitable for local competitive bidding for the village
roads, project buildings,storage reservoirs, canals, drains,
pumphouses, grain store and (ii) the staking of canals and drains down
to the 5 ha blocks and the entire road system. After hav-
ing received the tenders, the consultants would review them
and make recommendations for award;
(f) provide two drilling superintendents to supervise the
construction, development and testing of the 63 new wells;
(g) prepare a manual for the operation and maintenance of the
tubewells;
(h) supervise the collection of hydrogeological data and
analyze it as required to determine the ultimate develop-
ment of groundwater irrigation on the Lumbini Terai;
(i)  advise on the operation of the tubewells and monitoring
the collection of data on costs and benefits necessary
for the evaluation of the feasibility of further ground-
water developments on the Western Terai; and
(j) collect data and information on investment, operation and
maintenance costs of tubewells, and the related canal
and drainage system for use in planning further ground-
water developments on the Terai.
6.        Administrative and Agricultural Advisory Services.  The
consultant shall assist and advise DIHM and PM in administration
of personnel, finance, accounting and auditing and in the operation
of the project as an integrated agricultural development including
agricultural extension and co-operative services.
Preparation of Feasibility Report for Further Groundwater Development
(a) supervise the preparation of base maps, topographic maps
and reconnaisance land classification for a gross area
of 50,000 ha;
(b) assist in the assembly and analysis of hydrogeological
information on water supply and quality;
(c) assist in the selection of a project plan including all
project works and components and the determination of the
scale of development--in the range of 15,000 to 20,000
ha;
46



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 4
(d) assist in the preparation of the cost estimates--both
gonstruction and annual 0 & M;
(e) assist in the evaluation of project benefits, economic
justification, farmers' payment capacity and preparation
of the financial analysis; and
(f) take the leadership in the preparation of the final
feasibility report including preparation of 50 copies
of the report to be completed by December 30, 1978
including a study of water charges.
III. Reporting
7.        The Consultant shall prepare and submit to the PM the monthly
progress report giving a description of the Consultant's activities and
personnel during the reporting period, progress of the various phases of
project works, PCCs activities, problems encountered and measures to
overcome these problems and Consultant's financial statement.
8.        The Consultant shall assist the PM in the preparation of
semi-annual and annual reports for submission to the Association.
IV. Undertaking of HMGN
9.        Providing that established procedures are followed the Government
shall:
(a) exempt or bear the cost of, any taxes, duties, fees, levies
and other impositions imposed under its laws and regulations
or the laws and regulations in effect in its territories
or of any political subdivision or agency thereof, on the
Consultant and his personnel (other than personnel who
are citizens or permanent residents of Nepal) in respect of:
(i) any payments made to the Consultant or to such personnel
in connection with the carrying out of the agreed to
services;
(ii) any equipment, materials and supplies brought into
Nepal for the purpose of carrying out the services
and which, after having been brought into such
territories, will subsequently be withdrawn therefrom;
47



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 5
(iii) any property brought into Nepal by the personnel
of the Consultant and his dependents for their
personal use and which, after having been brought
into Nepal will subsequently be withdrawn therefrom
upon departure of such personnel; however, to
qualify for these exemptions, shipment of such
property into the country would have to be arranged by
contract no later than three months after the arrival
of the staff member;
(b) facilitate prompt clearance through customs of any
equipment, material and supplies required for the
services and of the personal effects of the Consultant's
personnel;
(c) ensure that the Consultant's personnel and their de-
pendents are promptly provided with any necessary
entry and exit visas, residence permits, exchange
permits and travel documents required for their stay
in the territories of the Government;
(d) issue all necessary permits and authorizations for the
carrying out of the services;
(e) provide reasonable furnished family living quarters
acceptable to the Consultant;
(f) provide full-time professional or technical personnel to
be counterparts and to work with and to be trained by
each consultant in carrying out these services;
(g) make available to the Consultant all existing aerial
photographs, maps, drawings, data, reports, and any
other information pertinent to the execution of the
contract;
(h) provide office space equipped with necessary furniture and
utilities such as water supply and electricity in the
project area;
(i) provide all local transport facilities and equipment
required by the Consultant;
(j) provide the existing aerial photographs on a scale of
1:12,000 to the Consultants.
48



ANNEX 3
ApPen4ix 2
Page 6
V. Necessary Procedure to be Followed by
Invited ConsuItini Firms
10.       Consulting firms invited to submit proposals are requested to
state clearly in their proposals the followIeg:
(a) terms and conditions under which they wovld cgary out
the duties and responsibilities specified above, fina%nctal
terms are not desired at this stage;
(b)  the proposed composition of the team which they intend to
assign to the project both in thq field and at the home
office, number of man-months of each individual tqgether
with the name and qualification, inclidin$ proficiency *n
spoken and written English;
(c) a list of vehicles and equipment which they anticipate wo4ld
be required In the carrying out of their works; and
(d)  the category and number of counterpart personnel and other
local staff which they would wish the Gqverpment to provide
to work with them at no cost to the firm.
49



ANNEX 3
Figure 1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA - LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
TYPICAL WELL DESIGN
Concrete plinth
20" drilled hole                                        18" 10 mild steol csin
(lOm)                                                   (lOmn)
grout  
17Mz" drilled hrle
(30-40m)                                            14" ID APt casing
grout                        |           (40-50m)
Casing hanger il4"/10"I
l F         10" OD fiberglass casing
(30-1 20m)
13'A/V drilled hole  ---      
(70-160m)
Naturally deyeloped                    l 1           10" OD fibergIess slotted
greded pack                                          screen (30-40m)
Total Depth 120 to 200 m
50
World Bank-16189



ANNEX 4
Page 1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Hydrogeology of the Project Area
General
1.        The Western Terai, of which the project area forms a part, is
underlain by a sequence of alluvial deposits which thicken southwards into
the Ganges Plain. Drilling has proved thicknesses of alluvium in excess
of 450 meters. Coarse fragmented rock predominate in the sections towards
the northern edge of the Terai adjacent to the Churia Hills to form what
is termed the Bhabar zone. This zone is particularly well developed to the
south of Butwal by the outwash fans of the Tinao-Dano river system and Bhabar
zone sediments extend into the northern part of the project area (Map 12075).
Southwards from the Bhabar zone the proportion of fine material in the allu-
vial sequence increases and there is a transition to the Gangetic zone of
sediments in which beds or lenticles of coarse, clay free, fragmented rock
occur within a clayey sequence.
2.        The alluvial aquifers of the Western Terai may be regarded as a
single complex aquifer system. An essentially unconfined aquifer under-
lying the northern part of the plain passes laterally to the south into a
system consisting of a thin phreatic aquifer underlain by a number of
confined aquifers separated by beds of clayey deposits. The confined part
of the system is believed to form a plexus of conduits which are to a
greater or lesser extent interconnected by lateral continuity or by verti-
c4l leakance.
Lithology of the Alluvial Deposits
3.        The Bhabar zone is underlain by predominantly coarse broken rock
alluviumw. Occasional beds of fine sediment occur. At depths below the
Bhabar zone, the alluvial sequence passes transitionally into a Gangetic
type sequence in which fine materials predominate. The coarse fragmented
rock of the Bhabar zone consist mainly of gravel with an admixture of sand.
Boulders and cobbles are fairly common particularly in the northern part
of the zone.
4.        The transition to the Gangetic zone is achieved by an increase in
the proportion of clayey beds within the sequence. In the southern part of
the project area, the proportion of clay-free, coarse, material decreases to
about 25% of the top 200 meters of the section. The coarse deposits consist
mainly of gravel with sand, though fine-to-coarse sand beds also occur. The
coarse materials occur in relatively thin beds, rarely exceeding 15 meters
in thickness, and are probably in the form of lenticular bodies of varying
lateral extent.
51



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Recharge - Discharge Relationships
5.        The Bhabar zone is recharged by infiltration of rainfall, by
seepage losses from water ponded on the paddy fields and by transmission
losses of flows in the river beds. Marked changes in groundwater level
occur below the Bhabar zone during the monsoon. Water level rises of up
to 18 meters have been recorded during the period of the years 1973 and
1974 and permit estimates to be made of change in groundwater storage. Ap-
plying a global value for the storage coefficient of 0.1 provides estimates
of a net change in storage in the Bhabar zone over the monsoon period of 1973
and 1974 of about 130 Mm3. This estimate does not represent total recharge
as discharge by lateral flow is not accounted for in the change in storage
balance. A recharge estimate of the same order of magnitude is obtained by
applying infiltration rates of 10 to 12 mm/day from the paddy fields on the
Bhabar zone gravel assuming that water is ponded for 120 days.
6.        The proportion of the recharge retained by the groundwater system
under present conditions is not accurately known. It is estimated that the
confined aquifers in the Gangetic zone may transmit 40 to 60 Mm3/annum under
the existing hydraulic gradients. Thus, less than half of the potential
recharge to the Bhabar zone can be accounted for as lateral flow to the
Gangetic zone aquifers; the balance must be rejected from the Bhabar zone
aquifer as effluent seepage to the surface drainage.
7.        Drilling near the southern edge of the Terai near the frontier
with India indicates that the proportion of aquifer material in the upper
200 meters of the Gangetic zone reduces to a negligible amount in this
region. It seems probable that there is a discharge area in the vicinity
of the frontier and that water flows from the confined aquifers to the
phreatic part of the Gangetic system by upward leakance.
Groundwater Flow Pattern
8.        The regional direction of groundwater flow is from north to south,
the flow lines radiating from the recharge area of the Bhabar zone. Hydrau-
lic gradients within the Bhabar zone range from 0.004 in the wet season to
0.002 by the end of the dry season. The steepening of the wet season gra-
dients reflects the effect of the rapid recharge which occurs during this
period. Hydraulic gradients in the aquifers of the Gangetic zone range from
0.0006 to 0.0015 and steepen towards the south as the decrease in proportion
of aquifer material reduces the transmissivity of the system.
Aquifer Characteristics
9.        The majority of the wells available for aquifer testing tap less
than ten meters of aquifer material. Thus, well performance is rarely
directly indicative of the productive capacity of the aquifer system. The
52



ANNEX 4
Page 3
tests carried out do provide estimates of mean unit permeability for indi-
vidual aquifers or parts of aquifers within the system. Aquifer tests on
Bhabar zone wells indicate unit permeability values in the range of 300 to
800 m/day. This range is in accordance with the lithological characteristics
of the aquifer which is formed mainly of clean, coarse gravel. Unit per-
meability values from tests of the Gangetic zone artesian aquifers range
from about ten to 400 m/day with a mean of 27 tests of about 100 m/day.
This range is again in accordance with the known lithological character-
istics of the aquifers of the part of the system.
10.       Credible estimates of storage coefficients are not provided by
the aquifer tests. However, the lithology of the phreatic aquifer of the
Bhabar zone indicates storativity in the range of 0.1 to 0.15. The arte-
sian storage coefficient of the  onfined aquifers of the Gangetic zone is
probably on the order of 3 x 10
Water Quality
11.       Electrical conductivity values of the groundwater contained in
the Bhabar zone and in confined aquifers of the Gangetic zone fall in the
range of 300-500 micromhos/cm. The Sodium Adsorption Ratio (SAR) values are
generally less than 1.0. According to the US Salinity Laboratory, Riverside,
classification, the water qualities are either Cl-Si or C2-S1.
Present Exploitation of the Aquifer System
12.       There are at present eight large diameter flowing artesian wells
being utilized for domestic water supply and irrigation and some 153 small
diameter flowing wells providing irrigation water in and around the vicinity
of the proposed project area. The majority of the small diameter irrigation
wells are located to the south of the schematic well field lay-out illustrated
by Map 12075.3 The estimated annual discharge of the large diameter wells  3
totals 1.4 Mm , and extraction by small diameter wells totals about 10.3 Mm /
annum. The latter penetrate to the top of the first artesian aquifer below
the well si e and are generally less than 60 m deep. Discharges range from
0.5 to 20 m /hr, though the majority of the wells yield less than 6 m /hr.
The wells flow uncontrolled throughout the year and a large proportion of
the water discharges to waste.
Groundwater Availability for Development
13.       The safe yield of the aquifer system approximates to the annual
recharge in the Bhabar zone.3 Under present conditions, this is believed
to be on the order of 150 Mm .  It seems probable that additional recharge
could be induced by appropriate groundwater management. However, maximizing
the groundwater resource would involve creation by pumping of an operational
reservoir within the aquifer system in the Bhabar zone. This could entail
53



ANNEX 4
Page 4
pumping lifts which cannot, in the present state of knowiedge, be estimated.
It is considered that a first phase development of 70 Mm /annum could be
achieved with pumping lifts which would not exceed about 30 meters in the
long term. It is believed that a phased approach to groundwater development
will allow optimal development of the water resource.
Effect of Proposed Withdrawals on Existing Wells
14.       The proposed groundwater development will cause a major change
in the water balance of the alluvial aquifer system in this part of the
Lumbini Terai. The system will respond by head decline to form a cone
of water level depression in the phreatic zone and of pressure relief
in the artesian zone within the vicinity of the pumping area. Declines
will continue until a new state of dynamic equilibrium is attained. The
effect of change in head in the artesian zone will be to decrease and
eventually kill the artesian flows from wells within or in the close
vicinity of the project area. The delay time before the effects of the
proposed pumping causes response on the existing artesian flows will be
short. It may be foreseen that during the first year when all wells are
in operation (Year Five of the project) the existing wells in the project
area will cease to flow at least during the period of heavy pumping.
Alternative Methods of Groundwater Development
15.       The alternatives devolve essentially on well diameter and well
depth which affect well yields. So long as pumping is involved, the
highest yielding well normally provides the lowest cost water at well
head. However, high yields imply relatively large command areas with
proportionately greater management requirements. Under the conditions
in the project area, the average net command area to be envisaged from
a water point is about 120 ha.  This requires a 300 m 3/hr well assuming
20 hours of pumping to meet peak demand.
16.       The flowing artesian zone of the Western Terai offers a possible
alternative for water production which would not involve pumping. Thus,
only the capital and amortization costs of the well would be involved.
The existing small diameter wells are drilled by hand to a maximum depth
of 60 meters. They serve, on the average, command areas of one to two
hectares and cost US$250 to US$350. Their life is normally less than five
years. The wells are poorly designed and cannot be shut in. They are,
therefore, extremely wasteful of water. It is considered that slim wells
(2 inches to 3 inches diameter) of good design penetrating to 60 to 80 m
could be constructed to yield 5 to 20 m3 /hr in the southern part of the
project area. Equipped with night storage reservoirs, such wells could
serve two to eight hectares and would cost US$1,500 to US$3,000, depending
on diameter and depth and would have a life of about 15 years. Thus, a
slim flowing well serving, say 4 ha and costing US$1,500 would have a capital
cost per hectare of US$375 and an amortizaiton cost of US$49/ha per annum.
54



ANNEX 4
Page 5
17.       The operation and maintenance costs of a slim flowing well
appear to be less than those for a large capacity pumped well and
capital costs per hectare are similar. However, the efficiency of
the flowing water point would depend on maintaining the artesian head.
This implies a relatively wide well spacing resulting in a net to gross
command of perhaps 10% to 15%.
18.       Given the situation described above, the proposed project has
accepted the higher management requirements inherent in larger command
areas and opted for a 300 m3/hr pumped well serving 120 ha. The well
design allows for water level decline, thus permitting maximization of
net to gross command by groundwater irrigation within the project area.
June 1976
55



ANNEX 5
Page 1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Irrigation Water Supply, Demand and Quality
1.        Water Supply.  The project water supply would be obtained from an
80% dependable annual rainfall of about 1,400 mm (Annex 2) and about 90 Mm3
from groundwater (Annex 4).
2.        Water Demand.  The projected water demand was derived from con-
servative estimates of crop water requirements adequate to establish the
project water balance, to determine the tubewell pumping requirements, and
to design the channel conveyance capacities. The total water required in
a dry year to meet the demands of the 186% irrigation intensity for the
projected cropping pattern at full development was estimated at 90 m 3/year
equivalent to 12,100 m /ha/year (8,900 m 3ha in an average year) over the
7,500 ha area. The average monthly demands of a typical 120 ha tubewell
command area can be met by pumping not more than 20 hours per day thus
meeting the offpeak only pumping hours restriction.  During a dry year,
daily pumping would be required up to 22 hrs (May), 21 hrs (June) and 21
hrs (July).
3.        The maximum water requirements for individual crops were deter-
mined (Table 1) from: (a) consumptive use calculated by the Blaney Criddle
method using the climate data at Chitwan and Bairia, the nearest stations
with significant periods of record; (b) effective rainfall assumed to be
70% of the 80% monthly dependable rainfall at Bairia; and (c) deep perco-
lation at the rate of 1.8 mm/day during the paddy cultivation season. Appro-
priate provision was made for land preparation, nurseries and filling paddy
fields. For late wheat a nominal standby provision was made for land pre-
paration water at the beginning of the season as insurance against premature
cessation of the preceeding monsoon rains when resulting hard soils would
be difficult to cultivate with typical small farmers' equipment.  Gross
irrigation requirements were determined by applying the following efficiencies
(%:
Paddy                            Other Crops
Field                75              65
Conveyance           80              80
Overall Efficiency  60               52
These water requirements are in line with those on similar projects in the
Terai.
56



ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        It would be possible, under improved water management conditions,
to economize up to about 20% of the irrigation water requirements. Such
savings would provide for intensified cropping possibilities or limited
extension of individual tubewell commands.
5.        Water Quality.  Extensive tests of groundwater showed this was
of high quality Cl-Si and C2-S1 and suitable for sustained irrigation use.
June 1976
57



Table 1
NEPAL-
BHAfIFAWA-LUDWINI GROUNDVATUR MOJIT
esitt atd Cen  VWae  Retulrint. (
Jan        Feb          match,       Apr11         N'y t          e           Jely         Augrat         _Sat          Oct          Na-          lt
Par EnprTtesa(i                                  62         84           155          190          21V7          M6            254           123           120          124           75           62
LetnIol  (80. prob.bility)          (i)          0           0             0            0           55           ISO          195            2260          1S0           15            0           0
llolru(.tlI (Mean)         Era1       (26)        (10)         (171          (26)         (50)        (229)         (430)          (40)          (204)         (52)         (115        (10)
F-rty Paddy 5.3DO ha
l>op 'itctr          -                        -             -            -          ~~~~~         ~~~~~          ~~~~~         ~~~~ ~ ~            ~     ~      ~     ~~~~1.08  1.22  1.39  1.10 ---
Itnc.cc   a.-                                                          --                                   178          190            171           132---
Sepprole(1.8 s/day)                                -             -             -           -           56            56             56            54                         --
SeeId ted. laYprprtInad
Effeyi'cae  el  /-                                                                                  25          U26          157            154           126-- 
Nk lrpainrqieet                                                                                   200          104           209             73            60-                                     -
Cross lezlgation rtquIrt,nants (60%  *ffy5Y                     -        ~~~~         ~~~333  174    582            122          10OD- 
GrossIrrIatIo   requrnrotn  (800   3)                                                               .60          6.370          4.270         5.0                            --
LiePaddy 3.725 ha
Crop (actor-                                                                            - -          -                            1.1           127           124         10              
Ft,                                                                                                                            17L           1s)64 66                   212- 
hey pertelttlne  -           -            -             -            -            -           ~~ ~ ~~~                     ~~~          ~~~           ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~56  5  54  56--
Ded bcMln   rprto   n   (ln
(((toni yr rein Pall  -          -             -            -            -          ~~~~         ~~~~           ~~~~          ~~~~          ~~~          ~~126  1)7  154  12,6  10  -
flt lrlalneqiset                                  -          -             --                        -            99            97             58            77         175--
(rota(rrlatl.n reqiireaora(60% effy)                 -            -                          -          165           162             97           126         292                         -
Gretalrrlotiao  aqoiruenta('05  *3)                                                                  6.146         6.035          3.613         4.760       10.877--
tori: OSrast 3.000 ha
(ro. fa-tor                                      0.15       0.90           --                        -                           ----                                                 0.30        0.65
St                                             40          76              --                        ---                                                                             25           28S
taed preartIn                                                -             -                         --                                                                                --
ErttlerSn   l0                                              0              -                                                     -                               -                    0            0
ye  trlafnnocona40                                       76                                                                                                                        23 --    -8 
Gro tir(tIorturret (52t affy)  77                     1466-                          -            -                          --                                        -4                     54
Crn_rjltInrnotmai                                                                                  ---                                                                  -      1.520        1.620
lAte meoat 13006 he
Cent(ote                                         0.60       0.85          0.90           -            ------                                                                                       66
Fr                                              37         71            7                                                                      ----                                              2
H,   rl, o  rq  tmtt                            37         71            70              -            ---                                                     --                     50           f
frn(rg nreqoir .torot  (52%  ffSy)  72          137           135                                                                                                           94          40
UOQ  3                                1.000      3.42)         3.275                                                                                                       2.400l       1.200
Crop   -ec                                        -                                      .4         1.00          1.05           -                            --
Ft                                                           -             -           76-        217            853--                                                                    
folcetiv.  ra(n(aIS             -          -           ~      ~      ~~         ~~~         ~ ~~0  0  25  121.6------
freen SatIqotlon rnq trntt. 3%.                                  192          250          592             0----
Greta i-rxtlooie    etqor,eete(000  3S 80                                            500          738                                                                                     
Ceep (o                                          0.63       0.62          0.70          0.71        0.73           -0.78                                                              0.72         0(E9
La..   rtaaln43                                            52           too          140          163                {                                                   97                        3
Eff-ecl',  raoOI                                 0          0             00                       2510                                                                                 
Nt tIrl-ocel-, rnqolita.tt                     43          52           108          140          150                   -O tat Iegtnd dtaei    (co  t3b-th               *     ~     54           43
fros  le    Iadnrq.fIten.t. (521 tfjy)  83                100           208          269          265                 j tter167                                                     108
0I-ye  Iri(tat- Ineqitnr('000.'    83                     ill           208           269         265                                                                    167        104           9)
Cro.p fotr0.62                                              0.61          0.26           -          0.30           -                            -                                     0.12,        0.37
FL                                              39         52            40              -          5              ---                                  .-                            92
PtEctle  nInPall1                                0          0             0              -         25              -                                          --00
.rN  clonerotrm,t                              39          52           40              -         11---                                                                                           25
Cres -twi-alorqrtet  (521 *8fy)  75                    100           77              -         221                                                                                I    --77   44
F"Ii(,0       ~188                          250           15-                                         -                            ---                                  45          110
'eaea250 ha
Crap tara-                                       0.68        -                           -                         --                                                      0.30       0.5          0.98
Ea                                              42           -             --                         -----                                                               5           66
G(Pe_tloecanPl                                   0           --                                                                  ---                                      10           00
tint IrIgatIn raqt(rnmsn                  62            -            -                          -----                                                               27          34          62'
Proselrrlatlo  atqriraertta(52% effy)  01            --                                      ---                                      .-52                                   65           6l
Grate  WitgatIon rnqialtetnt  ('Oe00 *3)  so                    -3-                                                                                                      150         165         2C2
Oil-rdt 200 ha
Crp motor                                      0.68         -            -                          ---                                                                  0.50        0.45         0.66
Ct                                 ~~~           ~      ~ ~           ~ ~ ~ ~~                                                                                          ~~~42  ------  - 37  34  402
FE(tcciot raln(all                  ~~         ~~~0~                                                                                                          :, --    -10  10        -2
Coalelatorqorn-.na   (52% ty          01            -            --                                                     ---                                     52          65           61
Gryce  lratnrqaIa.nnta  ('000 a) 22                           -            --                                       ----                                                 104        tin
VC0-0 Ct3)                                 6n746       6.153         4,160          560       13,065        12.306       12,405           7.885        8.2 68       11.276       4-.60        5,575
Water raqlterent  eanh ttab-11al
'CGi3S                                   76         130            66            9          207           195           197            125           136           180         68           55.
Watr-       abIt at each tob-1s1
'0    3i (25 be' pua.pino)              186        165           18"           18o         186           180           186            1846          180           166        180          186
Palily p-ePlno eraed.dring dry y.ar    8a                  15             7             1           22           21            21             13            14            19           8            6
1/ St-d bed and Thad   ctaaan           100c                    2I  EfffttIon retafa   tabtt a. 70% ralefll Qteearlng 4  er   c   05                   a    et'rifl   eeanfreprt.
tint~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cr                                                        tfS errt Sc s~E.
tIeypadtty titlda                                       2, 4    Cetdtyatn   afltFydre  o5h    anSt8%                   lad nfftalenay Paddy 75%. -the  atop. 63%.
TOTAL             22  -8



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LIMBINI GROUNDWATER OJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year and Quarters                       176              1                     1  8                 1979           1980
Item                 Total Unit                  XQ 2    4 1 |   24 3                                  . 1            21
1. Topographic mapping            200    km2             200
2. Soil survey (develop-
ment area)                     200    km2             100                   100
3. Soil survey(feas. of stage 2)500    km2                                                            500
4. Well construction               63    No          -         8                 20                    20                 15   z
5. Equipping of wells              63    No                               -      -        ____________              ---------
6. I & D network                7,500    ha                  O9602 2o                                2.400              21800
7. Feeder roads                    70    km
B. Power transmission network    70    km .
9. Miscellaneous works                                       50                   0
10. Feasibility report
(stage 2)
Contracts and Procurement Schedule
Item                                  1976             1977                  1978                  1979           1980
1. Consultants                                  -x*
2. Well drilling (Force Account)                   -_wceF ..
3. Power network (LCB)
4. Feeder road contract (ILB)
5. Buildings contract (LCB)                        --- 2xx++ ...
6. Materials (wells) (ICB)                       _cx3uv+"-l  +++.+++++..1-  +++++++++++++....1  ++++++++++.....1-
7. Pumps,  motors,  etc.  (ICB)                      ..+++++++++++-1  ++++4+++++++.   1 +++++++++++++..1  ++++++++. +++++++...l...-
8. Materials (power network) (ICB)                 -.cxx+++-l +++++++++++-1- ++++++++++++++++-1-  ++++++++++++l .... 
9. Vehicles (ICB)                                                                                                                 a.
10. Other minor equipment                          *vs**  **** *a**
-      Preparation of contract or tender documents
xxxxx Call for tender
*****  Analysis of bids and award
+++++  Mobilization or delivery
-1-    Break-point in materials delivery
feas. = feasibility



Table 1
unit              Local
unit  Qntity               Foreg             D tAJ    Y"r 1    Yr 2    Y"r 3z
Wg ----------------- ---- -0- US$ilion --_-_________________________
1. Land Acquisition               LS                                    0.30    0.g        0.1        0.10      0.1
Civil Works
2. Irrigation and Dru,.e
Welhead reservoirs                         63                0.01    0.11    0.12       0.01       0.04       0.04      0.03
Canal sarthvorkes              a    2,000,0GO    0.5         0.10    0.90    1.00       0.12       0.32       0.32      0 24
Cnal structures.                LS             930,a0        0.31    0.62     0.93      0.11       0.30       0.30       0.22
3. Villae load Nst, rk
Inpro mnt T&V15)
Hoads including oulverts        km         70  10,000        0.2k    0.56    0.0       0.08       0.27       0.27      0.18
4. Tubavells
Wll drilling and installotion
(Table 2)                    No          63  24,920        0.10    0.40    O.50       0.05       0.1S       0 20      0.10
Pu phouses                      so         63    2,063       0.02    0.11     0.13      0.02       0.04       0.07        -
11 kV line with transformers    LS                           O.IO    0.15    o.55       o.o5       0.30       0.20       -
5. Buildings
1,000 ton Grain Store           LS          -  90,000        0.02    0.07     0.09       -         0.09                   -
Agriculture supporting services
buildings                                 -  30,000        0.01    0.02     0.03        -        0.03                   -
OWY Workshop and Store          iS          -  20,000        0.01    0.01     0.02       -         0.02        -          -
lnginerinog end Admnistrative
Office extensions             LS           -  10,000        -      0.01    0.01         -        0.01        -
Subtotal                                              1.22    2.96    4.18       o.44       1.57          0       0.77
Physical Contingencies (10%)                                 0_12    0.30    242        0.0k       0.16       0.14       0.08
Civil Works Subtotal_
Items 2,3,4,5                                         1.34    3.26     4.60       o.48      1.73       1.54       00
Expected Price Increases (%)                                                             (14)      (26)       (38)       (50
Cost                                                         o.44   1.08      1.52      0.07       0.45       0.58       0.42
Civil Works Cost (Items 2-5)             4                     =        =        2j Ql    2    .     18 Z.12   1 l2z
6. T,bewell Equlpment (Table 3)                                 2.10    0.21     .31       0.70       0.81       0.80
7. liptnd Vehicles
(Table 4 )
Pokject vehicles                                             0.13    0.02    0.15       o.o5       0.10        -          _
Workshop ad miscellaneous                                    0.09    0.01    0.10          5       0.05 O 
equip_nt
Subtotal Item 7                                       0.22    0.03     0.25       0.10      0.15        -          - _
8. Projiect Services
Agricultural Supporting Services                              -      0.16    0.16       0.02       0.04       0.05       0.05
Enginering and Aiinistrmtion                                 0.1.6   0.41     o.55      0.08       0.17       0.17       0.13
Consultants: Project iaplmentation                           1.00    0.10     1.10      0.20       0.40       0.4o       0.10
(Table 6 ) Feasibility Studies                              0.3k    0.06     0.4o       -         0.20       0.20        -
Subtotal Ite 8                                        1.       77 3      T        0 30      0                     ___
Subtotal Items 6,7,8                                  15    0.97       177          10       1.77      1.62       0.28
Physical Contingeocies (10%)                                 08   0.10        0.8         .        01         0.16       0.03
Subtotal                                                                                    195 1.07  1.221  i 17  0.31
Expcted Price Increase (M)
Cost                                                          .8    0.21    3,0k         0.12      0.35       o.06         11
Subtotal Item  6,7,8                                            2      ii 21 8                           2
Total Cost Items 1-8                                  6.79       2   12.71         1          i 
Production Credit                                                                1.00
Orend Total Cost of Project
60



NEPAL                          Table 2
BHAIRAWA-UJXBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Drilling and Installation of 63 Tubewells
(not including cost of casings and pumping equipment)
Item                                                       Total Costa
(u   '000)
1.  Mobilization to and from project site                           5
2.  Moves between wells, rigging up and rigging down               10
2/
3.  Drilling at 22 inrdiameter                                     15
4. Casing at 18 in diameter                                        18
s.  Grouting at 22/18 in diameter                                  10
6.  Drilling at 17.5 in diameter                                   35
7.  Casing at 14 in diameter                                       52
8. Grouting at 17.5/14 in diameter                                 30
9. Drilling at 13.5 in diameter                                   120
10.  Casing at 10 in diameter                                      130
11.  Pump Testing and well developaent                              30
12.  Pump pedastal and temporary cap                                 5
13.  Installation of pumping equipment                              40
Total Cost                                             500
g/ Including indirect foreign exchange costs.
2/   in  *  inches
61



ANNEX 7
Table 3
NEPAL
E[AIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Tubewell. Transmission Line Materials and FAuipment
Unit        Cif J
Item                                     Quantity     Cost        Cost
(uS$)     (u-s '000)
A. Tubewell
1.  Combination drilling rigs capable of drilling
14" holes to 210 m depth with
accessories and spare parts               2       350,000       700
2.  Casings 18" diameter for 63 wells        LS          -           60
3. Casings 14" diameter for 63 wells         LS          _          150
4.  Casings 10" diameter for 63 wells        LS           -         350
5.  35 kV electric motor plus spares         63         4,000       252
6.  Automatic switch gear plus spares        63         1,000        63
7.  Turbine, rising main, shaft, vertical
head                                     63         8,000       504
8.  Miscellaneous                            LS          -           21
Subtotal                                               2,100
B. Transmission Line
Wire, insulators, etc., and
transformers                            L40
1/ Not including inland transportation and handling
62



ANNE
Tableh4
NEPAL
BH       AALON  GROUNDWATER PROJZCT
Cost Estimates
Project Equipment and Vehicles
Unit         cifL
Item                                 Quantity      Cost         Cost
Item  TUW)  (Uw$'000)
1.  Field vehicles                           10       41,500          45
2.  5 ton truck                               1        8,000          8
3.  Mobile workshop field vehicle              1      15,000         15
4. Light motorcycles                          20       1,000         20
5. Tractors and trailers                      4        7,500         30
6.  Spare parts                        Lump Sum (LS)                 12
Subtotal items 1-6                                      130
7. Workshop equipment                        LS                      50
8. Communication equipment                   LS                       5
9. Sprayers                                    5       1,000           5
10. Hand tools                                LS                        5
11.  Survey and hydrological equipment        LS                       10
12. Office and miscellaneous equipment                                 15
Subtotal items 7-12                                      90
Total Cost                                               220
g/ Not including inland transportation and handling.
63



ANNEX 7
Table 5
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-IDMINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Road Construction Equipment
Unit        cif "
Item                                       Quantitv       c           c
1.  Road roller                                   1          15,000      15,ooo
2. Dump trucks - 5 ton                            5           8,000     4o,ooo
3.  Flat bottom truckB- 5 ton                     2           7,000      14,0oo
4. Inspection vehicle:                            1           5,ooo       5,ooo
5. Spare parts                                    LS                     20,000
6.  Miscellaneous equipment and tools             LS                      6,1000
Total Cost                                                    1o0o0000
g  Not including inland transportation and handling.
64



ANNEX 7
NEPAL                               Table 6
BUAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Consultink Services
A. Project IMletmentation
Consultants                               M a-motho            Cost
(T'W;1 000)
Teamleader (I and D Engineer)                          30                in
Design Engineer                                        36                180
Hydrogeologist/Groundwater Engineer                    36                230
Drilling Superintendent                                24                120
Soil Surveyor                                          18                 90
Topographic Surveyor                                   18                 90
Mechanical  and  ELectrical Engineer                   18                 90
Subtotal                           180                980
PhetxramtrJ and X   production 1 :5,000 scale
for 20,000 ha                                80
Local costs of supplies and services                                    4-
Sub-total A                                                      1 ,100
B. Feasibility Studies on 50,000 ha
Teamleader (I and D Engineer) 2/                       12                 80
Design Engineer                                         12                60
Hydrogeologist                                         12                 80
Soil Surveyor                                           6                 30
Topographic and Ground Control Surveyor                 12                60
Report and map production              .                                   70
Mic eouEsSo    costs and services                -                 20
u   o                           54               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~400
1/ The project ieplemnmtation and feasibility studies are to be conducted
in the Western Terai, therefore, the teauleader would be able to participate in
both activities.
65



ANNEX 8
Table 1
NEPAL
BAI3RAWA-UJBINI GRCNDVA! ER  IWR
ProDosed Credit llocation
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in       Eapenditurs
Cat.qory              Dollar 3ui%vsAgt)  to be  H d
(1) Construction mate-            2,700,000
rials, equipment,
vehicles and spare
parts:
(a) imported                              100% of foreign
directly                              expenditures
(b) locally pur-                          90% of local
chased from                           expenditures
local manu-
facturer
(c) otherviAe                              75% of local
locally                               expenditures
purciaed
(2) Civil works (excluding
items listed in Category
(1) above) dones
(a) by force account           400,OOO    75% of local
expenditures
(b) under contract           2,400,000    100% of foreign
exenditures and
75% of local ex-
penditures
(3) Consulting services           1,94O,O00    100% of foreign
expenditure.
(4) Uallocated                    2,100,000
Total              9.QQg0
66



ANNE 8
Table 2
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LIBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Estimated Sochdulo of Disbursemt
IDA Fiscal Year                                      Azevmlatsd
and Semester                                         Disbursments
(US$ minion)
1977
1st                                                0.5
2nd                                                1.0
1978
1st                                                2.0
2nd                                                3.0
1979
lot                                               I4.o
2nd                                                5.5
1980
1st                                                7.0
2nd                                                8.0
1981
1st                                                8.5
2nd                                                9.0
67



ANNEX 9
Page 1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Agricultural Supporting Services
General
1.        HMGN has three ministries dealing with agriculture:  MFAI; the MLR
and the MWP.
2.        The Departments under the MFAI include the DIHM, DA, Department of
Food and Agriculture Marketing Services and the Department of Land Settlement.
The Ministry also has overall responsibility for a number of public sector
corporations which include the AIC, ADBN, NFC and also GRDB.
3.        The DA consists of the Divisions of Agricultural Education and Re-
search, Extension, Horticulture, Livestock and Veterinary Services, and
Fisheries.
4.        The DIHM comprises a Planning and Design Division, a Construction
Division and a Hydrology and Meteorology Division. In addition, there
are four Regional Directorates based in Kathmandu, Suakhet, Pokhara and
Dhankuta.
5.        Ministries dealing indirectly with agriculture and of importance
to the project include Public Works and Transport, and MHP. The Ward Panch-
ayat is a publicly elected Government official representing the citizens of
about ten rural villages. That official has responsibilities for the dev-
elopment of agriculture, minor irrigation and village roads.
Division of Agricultural Extension
6.        The Division of Agricultural Extension is responsible for agri-
cultural extension in the country through demonstration and training pro-
grams. Agricultural officers are assigned to extension services at regional
and District levels and also at different District sub-centers. There are four
Regional Directorates based in Biratnagar, Kathmandu, Pokhara and Nepalganj.
Each District has a DADO who is in charge of the District extension staff
including one or more JT, and several JTA. The DADO of the Rupandehi District
in which the project is located reports to the regional office in Pokhara and
to the central office in Kathmandu.
68



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Division of Agricultural Education and Research
7.        Nepal's agricultural graduates are trained abroad, most of them at
Indian agricultural universities. They are posted as research officers, as
DADOs and other District level officers and above. Previously JTs and JTAs
were trained at the College of Agriculture, upgraded from a School of Agricul-
ture in 1969, and located at Kathmandu. This college has now been moved to
Rampur (Chitwan District) and renamed as the Institute of Agriculture and
Animal Science (IAAS). It has better facilities particularly for field train-
ing than its former location, and has a two year Diploma as well as a four
year degree course. In the future, JTs will be recruited mostly from graduates
of IAAS.
8.        Presently JTAs are recruited from Certificate holders trained at
the Agricultural Training Institutes located in the agricultural experimental
farms at Kathmandu, Parwanipur, Nepalganj and Janakpur. The Institutes
receive grants from the Ministry of Education and are under academic control
of the Tribhuvan University at Kathmandu. A total of 200 students, 50 at
each Institute, are given one year training course at these Institutes.
Of these, 45% are given stipends and the remaining 55% attend the course at
their own expense. There have been some shortfalls in the number of appli-
cants for admission to this course in the last 2 to 3 years, but this condi-
tion greatly improved in 1976 when as many as 375 candidates applied for 50
student positions in the Parwanipur Institute alone. The educational quali-
fication for admission to the training course is having graduated from high
school, and the University issues Certifcates to the successful students.
Up to 5% of the certificate holders are permitted to attend the diploma course
at IAAS.
9.        The National Rice Improvement Program is responsible for research
on various aspects of rice improvement and production. The research center
is located at the Agricultural Research Station at Parwanipur near Birganj.
So far, research work has concentrated on screening, selecting and field test-
ing of materials obtained from IRRI and India, and on planting dates, crop
response to fertilizer application and control of insects and plant diseases.
Varieties are tested under both rainfed and irrigated conditions. Plant
breeding work was initiated in 1971 and a few new varieties including crosses
with exotics as well as local materials have been developed. The USAID pro-
vides consultants and funds for research and extension training on cereal
production and water management.
10.       The National Wheat Development Program is responsible for all as-
pects of wheat improvement and production. The Bhairawa Agricultural Research
station which is adjacent to the project area is the research center for wheat
development. It has an area of 35 ha of which 23 ha are cultivated with paddy
in summer and wheat in winter. So far the research work on wheat has con-
centrated on introduction of new varieties--mainly from India--while paying
increasing attention to developing new varieties. More emphasis would be
placed on irrigation practices for wheat and other dry season crops such as
oilseeds and pulses, and also on timely and efficient irrigation of HYV paddy.
69



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Work in the Project Area
11.       The above rice and wheat research programs would continue to support
the project. Housing for training extension staff and progressive farmers
would be provided by the project at the Bhairawa Research Farm. A limited
number of full-time research, Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) and supporting
staff would be appointed and some transport facilities would be provided under
the project.
12.       Presently the extension service in the Rupandehi District is under-
staffed as there are only seven JTs and 15 JTAs against a sanctioned strength
of nine JTs and 24 JTAs. With better enrollment for the JTAs course at the
Agricultural Training Institutes it is expected that these posts would be all
filled by next year, and a total of 12 JTs and JTAs required for the project
could all be provided from the existing sanctioned extension staff for this
District.
13.       The agricultural extension service for the project area would be
modelled on the lines of the service which HMGN has introduced in the Birganj
Irrigation Project starting from 1975. The system involves reorganization
and strengthening of existing extension services, new methods of demonstra-
tion, strict adherance to a schedule and concentration on important practices
for the major crops. The service would be headed by the DADO of Rupandehi
District assisted by an officer of similar rank with particular responsibility
for the tubewell irrigated area. The gross project area of 20,000 ha would be
divided into three extension subdivisions each headed by a JT. Each JT would
be supported by three JTAs who would each supervise seven PLAAs. Each PLAA
would provide extension to about 240 farmers. For this, 63 PLAAs would have
to be recruited and trained at the Bhairawa Agricultural Research Farm
(Table 1).
Agricultural Inputs Corporation
14.       The AIC which was previously known as the Agriculture Supply Corpo-
ration is responsible for marketing of modern agricultural inputs essential
for intensive farming in Nepal. The main responsibilities include:
-    import, multiplication, processing and distribution of seed;
-    procurement and distribution of fertilizers, and equipment
and agrochemicals for plant protection; and
-    import and distribution of farm machinery.
15.       Seed multiplication is made through registered seed farmers.  Re-
cently a seed processing plant was established in Hetauda with the joint
70



ANNEX 9
Page 4
co-operation of HMGN and UNDP. Presently all the required seed for distribu-
tion is grown and processed within the country. Improved seed, chemical
fertilizers, plant protection equipment and agro-chemicals, and farm machin-
eries are distributed through co-operatives and private dealers. As insti-
tutionalized distribution is given priority over the private distribution
channel, co-operatives get higher commission than the private dealers. There
are about 890 dealers (co-operative and private) in the country, of which
about 30 are in Rupandehi District.
16.       The AIC owns a number of warehouses at various centers in the
country, totalling 28,750 tons capacity at present, and has programmed to
construct additional warehouses with a total capacity of 33,500 tons includ-
ing warehouses of 7,000 tons capacity for seeds. The AIC would also expand
the capacity of godowns and the number of dealers in the project area as
required. It is expected that the input requirement of the project area
could be met from the existing program of AIC.
Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
17.       The ADBN has been the only official rural credit institution
in Nepal since 1973. It emerged from a consolidation of the 'old' ADBN
(the 1967 successor to the Co-operation Bank) with the Land Reform
Savings Corporation created in 1966.
18.       The ADBN provides short, medium and long-term credit to individual
farmers, co-operatives and corporate bodies engaged in the task of agricul-
tural development. Short-term production credit is granted for purchase of
agricultural inputs and small farm tools and for labor expenses. Farmers
owning 6 ha of land and over can go directly to the bank for seasonal loans,
while those owning less than 6 ha obtain such loans through co-operatives.
Medium and long-term loans repayable within a period of 3 to 20 years are
granted for such items as livestock, tractors, pump sets, and warehouse con-
struction directly to individuals. Land purchase loans which are medium-term
loans repayable within seven years are also provided to tenant farmers to
purchase land tilled by them.
19.       After scrutiny of loan applications the bank usually advances
loans for the agricultural inputs in kind by issuing supply order to concerned
supply agencies. Cash loans to pay hired labor are disbursed only after the
agricultural inputs have been obtained.
20.       Presently institutional credit accounts for only about one-fifth of
the total agricultural credit in Nepal, while it accounts for over 90% of the
credit for purchase of agricultural inputs and 100% of the credit for purchase
of heavy farm machinery. Fertilizer use in the project area is ex-
pected to increase from 100 to 4,500 tons and pesticides use from practically
nothing to 20 tons.
71



ANNEX 9
Page 5
21.       The incremental annual cost of farm inputs including the cost of
hired labor, rental of bullock teams by small farmers, and the cost of im-
proved seeds as well as the purchase of fertilizers and pesticides under
conditions of full development would amount to about NRs 19 million. The
farmers would be able to provide one-third of the funds necessary for the
purchase of such inputs from either savings or current income, but it would
be necessary for them to secure the balance from other sources. To assure
that the balance of such funds would be available annually when needed, an
amount of NRs 12,500,000 has been included as a component of the project.
These funds would be managed by the ADBN and would be loaned to the coopera-
tives which would in turn on-lend them to the farmers. In the case of larger
farmers, they would secure production loans directly from the ADBN (see Table 2).
Nepal Food Corporation
22.       NFC was established only a year ago.  Its main function is to pro-
cure surplus foodgrains, mainly rice from the surplus areas in the Terai and
distribute them to the deficit areas in the hills (especially Kathmandu).
The second function is to export rice, mainly to India. For rice export, NFC
has formed eight rice export companies with HMGN owning 51% of the shares and
private mill owners and merchants owning the remaining 49%. The Chairman of
each company is nominated by private shareholders, while the Central Manager
is deputed by HMGN. The detailed functions of these companies are still to
be defined. Presently, rice export is made by export companies with export
licenses which were issued contingent upon handing over 25% of their regist-
ered stock to NFC at a fixed price which is about 30% cheaper than the market
price. So far NFC handles only rice, and rice sales in the hills are subsi-
dized by HMGN.
Food and Agriculture Marketing Services Department
23.       The FAMSD is responsible for collection and compilation of agri-
cultural statistics, collection and disemination of market intelligence
and prices, formulation of marketing policy for agricultural products and
inputs, food research and for conducting farm management studies and economic
surveys. It took over most of the functions of the Economic Analysis and
Planning Division of MFAI. Agricultural statistics on cropped area, yield
and production are collected with the assistance of agricultural extension
staff, while market intelligence materials are gathered by its own staff.
June 1976
72



ANNEX 9
Table 1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Agricultural Extension and Training
Annual Incremental Qperating Cost
Project      Field             Total Cost
Number   Salar    Allowance   Allowance   Total  Per Year
(NRs)     (NRs)      (Ns)        (NRs)    (NRs )
DADO                    1        *         210           -        210      2,520
Add. DADO & Subject
Matter Specialists   5        700         210          -        910    54,600
JT (Headquarters)       2        *         120          80        200      4,800
JT (Field)              3        *          120         80        200      7,200
JTA                     9                   75          50        125    13,500
PLAAs                  63       150          45          -        195   147,420
Accountant              1       400         120         40t.      560      6,720
Driver &
Sub-Accountants       8       250          75         50        375    36,000
Peon                    6       150         45           -        195    14,040
-    286,80
Fuel & Maintenance      6                                    @ 30,000   180,000
Bicycle Allowance      12                                    a    240      2,880
Extension Activities   -                                                  25,000
Training of PLAAs      63                                                 75,600
Farm Training           -                                                 25,000
308,480
Total          595,280
Salary
* Paid from the existing Departmental Budget.
73



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Incremental Cost of Crop Inputs - (Financial)
Items                       Unit        Future      Increment        Price        Incremental Cost of
W/O  /W 1/                                          Inputs
-----------7'OOO)---------------      (NRs/unit)        (NRs '000)
Seeds
Paddy (local)                KG      217     15       - 202           1.4                -283
Paddy (HYV)                           15    202         187           1.8                  337
Wheat                        "        68    330         262           1.6                  419
Maize                                  0      4           4           1.3                    5
Oilseeds                     "         2      3           1           3.9                    4
Pulses                       "        11     13           2           3.8                    8
Potatoes                               0 0    300       300           1.0                  300
Sugarcane                    "       600    300       - 300           0.2                   60
730
Fertilizer
Complex                      "       351  2,667       2,316           2.7                6,253
Urea                         "       200  1,276       1,076           3.1                3,336
Muriate of Potash            "        30  1,182       1,152           1.8                2,074
11.,663
Plant Protection               NRa      88  2,334       2,246           NA                         2,246
Bullock Team (hired)           days    123    255         132           8.0                        1,056
Labor (hired)                 days       -      -         587           6.0                        3,522
19,217
1/   O . Without ProJect; W = With Project                                                                            o



ANNEX 10
Page 1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
Present Cropping Patterns and Production
1.        The present cropped area for the project is about 9,600 ha which on
a net cultivable area of 8,100 ha gives a cropping intensity of 118% -- the
same as the average for the whole country. Paddy is the dominant crop and
accounts for 80% of the cropped area. Wheat is the major winter crop account-
ing for 12% of the cropped area. Minor crops include wet seasffn'pulses, rabi
or winter pulses and oilseeds, and a year-round sugarcane crop-fWiich together
accounts for the remaining 8%.
2.        High yielding varieties of paddy (IR 20 and 22) have been introduced
during the last decade, but due to inadequate rainfall and the consequent
investment risk on inputs, HYV presently covers only about 4% of the total
paddy area. Wheat is mainly RR 21, a high yielding variety introduced from
India, which is sown with soil moisture remaining after harvesting paddy.
3.        Wet season pulses (Cajanus Indicus) account for 2% of the cropped
area while rabi or winter pulses account for another 2% and mustard oil seeds
2%. Sugarcane is not an important crop and is grown mostly on marginal
land.
4.        The present cropped area and production shown in Table 1 are
reproduced below:
Crops                             Area           Production
(ha)             (tons)
Paddy (local)                    7,425             8,167
Paddy (HYV)                        300               540
Wheat                            1,125               900
Pulses                             350                175
Oilseeds                           200                 80
Sugarcane                          200             5,000
Total                         9,600
Net cultivated area           8,100
Cropping Intensity             118%
75



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Future Cropping Patterns and Production
5.        Irrigation from the project would make significant changes in the
cropping pattern. Lack of irrigation is presently the major constraint to a
total shift to HYV paddy during the wet season and to expansion of the wheat
area during the winter dry season. Therefore, the supplementary irrigation
during the wet season would make a major shift from local to HYV paddy, and
irrigation in winter would enable large scale expansion of the area under
wheat. With an assured water supply, farmers would not hesitate to apply
increased dosage of fertilizers and other inputs.
6.        The projected cropped area is 14,000 ha which on a net cultivated
area of 7,500 gives a cropping intensity of 186%. It will be noted that the
net cultivable area at full development will be less than that of the present
by about 600 ha which will be required for constructon of roads, storage
tanks, distributaries and field channels.
7.        The future with project cropped area and production shown in
Table 1 are reproduced below:
Crops                             Area          Production
(ha)            (tons)
Paddy (local)                      500            1,350
Paddy (HYV)                      6,725           23,537
Wheat                            5,500           16,500
Pulses                             425              322
Oilseeds                           300              210
Maize                              200              400
Potatoes                           250            2,500
Sugarcane                          100            5,000
Total                        14,000
Net cultivated area           7,500
Cropping Intensity             186%
It is possible that the area under wheat may expand more than the
projection.
Future Crop Yields
8.        With an assured water supply, improved farm management, an
adequate supply of inputs, expanded use of HYV seed, and an improved
extension service, crop yields are projected to increase over a five
year development period (for each well) as follows:
76



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Present              Future
Yield               Yield
------ (tons/ha) ---------
Paddy (local)           1.1                 2.7
Paddy (HYV)             1.8                 3.5
Wheat (HYV)            0.8                  3.0
Pulses                 0.5                  0.8
Oilseeds               0.4                  0.7
Maize                    -                  2.0
Potatoes                -                  10.0
Sugarcane             25.0                 50.0
June 1976
77



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
Present              Future Without Proect           Future With P ect
Area   ield   Production    Area   Yield Productio.        Irma  -ield  Production
(7 a                n        ton               tons) K)  (ha)                -(tons)
Wet Season & Annual Crops
1. Paddy (local)          7,425    1.1     8,167.5     7,225    1.6      11,560        500    2.7      1,350.0
2. Paddy(HlV)               300    1.8       540.0       500    2.4       1,200      6,725    3.5    23,537.5
3. Sugarcane                200   25.0     5,000.0       200   30.0       6,000        100   50.0      5,000.0
4. Pulses                   175    0.5        87.5       175    0.5          87.5       175    0.7       122.5
5. Maize-/                 -        -       -           -         -       -            200    2.0        400.0
Dry Season Crops
6. Wheat                  1,125    0.8       900.0      1,125    1.2      1,350      5,500    3.0    16,500.0
7. Oilseeds                 200    0.4        80.0       200    0.4          80        300    0.7        210.0
8. Pulses                   175    0.5        87.5        175    0.5         87.5      250    Q.8        200.0
9. Vegetables (potatoes)  -         -       -            -        -       -             250   10.0     2,500.0
Total cropped area    9,600                         9,600                        14,000
Net cultivated area   8,100 /                       8,100k'                       7,500
Cropping intensity    118%                           118%                          186%                          , 
1/  It is assumed that maize will be grown by small farmers between wheat and HYV paddy on a small portion of
their land.
2/  It is assumed that about 8% or 600 ha will be required for construction of roads,storage tanks, irrigation
00      channels and bunds, leaving 7,500 ha of irrigated land on completion of the project.



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Cropping Calendar
Crops          Jan.     Feb.        Mar.       Apr.       May        Jun.       Jul.       Aug.       Sept.      Oct.        Nov.      Dec.
Paddy (Local)
Paddy (HYV)
Maize
Wheat                |                                /
Pulses
Oilseeds
Potatoes
Sugarcane              Planting a-
Nu.rwy period                               Growing period in the fid                                                                1!
World Bank-15945



ANNEX 11
Page 1
NEPAL
BRAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Prices for Economic and Financial Analyses
1.        Prices used in the economic and financial analyses are pre-
sented below:
Item                                  Price
Economic                 Financial
(US$/ton)     (NRs/ton)        (NRs/ton)
Crops
Paddy                        155            1,938             1,400
Maize                        105            1,312             1,800
Wheat                        130            1,625             1,600
Oilseeds                     345           4,312              3,900
Pulses                       320            4,000             3,800
Potatoes                      72              900               900
Sugarcane                     14              175               150
Fertilizers
Urea                         255           3,190              3,050
Muriate of Potash            150            1,875             1,840
Complex (20-20-0)            210            2,625             2,670
Labor (NRs/day)                     -             4.7                6.00
Farm Gate Prices for Economic Analysis
2.        Nepal currently exports about 10% of its grain production as
well as some of its mustard and sugarcane to India; such agricultural
exports are one of the major sources of foreign exchange. In view of
the importance of such foreign exchange it is expected that Nepal will
make every effort to continue exporting agricultural crops. The prices
selected for use in the economic analysis reflects this continued ex-
port position. As opposed to crops, Nepal imports all of its fertilizer
and this trade position is also reflected in the economic prices used
in the analysis.
80



ANNEX 11
Page 2
3.        The derivation of the prices for the internationally traded agricul-
tural crops and fertilizers is presented in the following two tabulations.
4.        The derivation of the economic prices for pulses and potatoes which
are not internationally traded and which are minor crops in the projected
cropping patterns for the BGP were based largely upon the current market
prices in the project area. The economic price for mustard was developed by
reference to the other oilseed crops which are internationally traded and
which are included in the price projections made by the Bank Group.
81



ANNEX 11
Page 3
Paddy    Maize    Wheat    Mustard
Steps
-__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(US  $/ton)----------
Projected 1985 price
(a)  in 1973 values                           240        78       115      *300
(b) in early 1976 values (assumed
conversion factor 1.42)                340       111      163        426
Price adjusted for quality differential
(% of above)                            (70%) 239 (90%)100 (75%)122 (80%) 340
Estimated shipping and handling charges
to potential trading areas in UP (India)        40       40        40        40
cif price UP (India)                             279      140       162       380
Estimated transport, handling, marketing          20       20        20         20
between project area and UP
fob/cif price project area                       259      120       142        360
Estimated handling, milling and transport
cost from farm gate to market centers           20       15        10        15
Farm gate price                                  239      105       132        345
Farm gate price for paddy assuming 65%
milling yield                                  155        -        -          -
* Based upon 1985 average of projected price for all oil crops - Annex 1, p.37,
Bank Report No. 814.
* UP is Uttar Pradesh State.
Muriate of Triple Super
Steps                         Urea    Potash    Phosphate    Complex
(46%)   (60%)       (46%)     (20-20-0)
1/
Projected 1985   price (U.S. $/ton)              116       42          97          na
Adjustment to January, 1976 (142%)               165       60         137          na
Addition of freight and handling 2/               90       90          90          na
Total Price (U.S. $/ton)                         255      150         227         210 3/
1/ FOB origin price: Source: (Economic Analysis and Projections Dept., May, 1975).
2/ Source: Report No. 959-NEP; Appraisal of Rural Development, Nepal.
3/  Derived from prices of urea and TSP.                                        82



ANNEX 11
Page 4
Farm Gate Prices for the Financial Analysis
5.        Unfortunately Nepal does not publish farm prices for agricul-
tural products; the only price series available is one on retail prices and
these are available for Kathmandu as well as the four Districts including
Rupandehi. There is also a marketing publication for paddy which gives the
price spreads between the farm gate and the retailer. 1/ With appropriate
adjustments this can be used to adjust the retail price to the farm gate for
all crops. The farm gate prices for the financial analyses were developed by
starting with the 1974/1975 retail prices in the harvest months when most
of the commercial crops are sold, adjusting these to the farm gate and adding
8% to bring the 1974/1975 price up to the current level (January 1976) as
shown in the following tabulation. These were then checked with prices
reported by farmers to the mission and found to be in substantial agreement.
Mustard
Steps                      Rice   Wheat    Maize    Pulses           Seed
Retail price -- Rupandehi
(NRs/kg)                   2.47    1.95    2.15        4.40         4.50
Adjustment to farm gate
price (%) /a                54 /b  75        78         80            80
Farm gate price
(NRs/kg)                   1.33    1.46    1.68        3.56         3.60
Adjustment to Jan 1,
1976 (108%)                1.43    1.58    1.81        3.84         3.89
Price/ton (NRs)            1,430   1,580   1,810       3,840         3,890
Rounded                    1,400   1,600   1,800       3,800         3,900
/a   Includes allowance for storage, transportation, drying and
processing.
/b   Includes conversion from paddy to rice at milling turnout
of 65%.
6.        The financial price for fertilizer was developed through interviews
with farmers, extension people and the AIC. The financial price for paddy
reflects the paddy procurement policies of the Government and its endeavor to
1/    Economic Analysis and Planning Division, Ministry of Food and
Agriculture, Nepal, "Rice Marketing in Nepal," March 1972.           83



ANNEX 11
Page 5
keep the retail price of rice low in the urban areas. The financial price
for maize reflects both the scarcity and relative importance of this crop
in the diet of the hill people. It is coincidental that the economic and
financial prices of fertilizer are almost identical. This results mainly
from the policy of the Government to subsidize the price of fertilizer to
the farmer.
7.        Rate of Exchange.  For some years HMGN has maintained a dual ex-
change rate, one in terms of US dollars and the other in terms of Indian
rupees. On Oct. 9, 1975, HMGN depreciated the Nepalese rupee against the
dollar by 15.5% resulting in an exchange rate of NRs 12.5 to US$1 while
keeping unchanged its exchange rate of NRs 139.1 to Indian rupees 100. This
change eliminated the disorderly cross rate situation which had developed
since 1972 and at the same time brought the NRs substantially into line
with the US dollar. The official exchange rate (NRs 12.5 to US$ 1) was
used in the economic and financial analyses, but the country's basic re-
source potential remains weak and the long-term outlook remains unfavorable.
In recognition of this, a sensitivity analysis was made using a rate of NRs
15 to US$ 1. The specific adjustments required in the rate of return analy-
sis to reflect the shadow exchange rate depends upon whether the analysis is
made in terms of local currency or US dollars. In this case, the analysis
was made in terms of dollars. Therefore, the use of the shadow rate of ex-
change decreased the cost of project works and components involving local
currency including the cost of O&M, and on the benefit side, it reduced the
cost of local transport and handling and this increased the economic farm-
gate prices. Thus, the use of the shadow rate of exchange in the analysis
decreased the project costs, both capital and operating, and increased the
project benefits. The results of this analysis are shown in Annex 14.
June 1976
84



ANNEX 12
Page 1
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Crop Inputs and Farm Budgets
General
1.        Present agricultural practices and the expected overall changes
in cropping patterns, yields and production in the project area are described
in Annex 10.
The main purposes of this Annex are to determine:
(a) the impact of the project upon the income of the farm
families who are living at or below the poverty level, and
(b) the capacity of the project beneficiaries to repay
project costs.
Crops Input Requirements
2.        Present and projected farm inputs and labor requirements under
the project are given in Table 1. The estimated current levels of inputs
and labor requirements are derived from the data supplied by the FAMSD and
from the sample surveys conducted by the Tahal Consultants in the project
and adjacent areas. These were updated by interviews with the farmers in the
project area. Future requirements are based on the recommendations of the DA
and on observations of the cultural practices of the progressive and other
farmers of adjacent areas where paddy and wheat crops are cultivated under
irrigation. For the various inputs and labor requirements, the following are
the basic assumptions:
(a)  Fertilizers.  Very little fertilizer is used at present.
No fertilizer is used for local rainfed paddy while a
little urea is used for HYV paddy. A little 'Complex'
fertilizer (20:20:10) and Urea is used for wheat. The
recommended dosage for HYV paddy and wheat is 100 kg N,
60 kg P205 and 40 kg of potash per hectare. Even the
progressive farmers in the nearby irrigated areas do
not apply fertilizers up to the recommended dosage, but
it is expected that with the project the use of fertilizers
would increase up to 80 - 90% of the recommended dosage
for nitrogen and potash and 66% for P 0 5. On this basis,
the projection for the future use is 96 kg N, 40 kg P205 and
36 kg Potash.
85



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(b) Farm Labor. Monthly labor requirements including both
family and hired labor for each crop are presented in
Table 1. These estimates are based on the assumption
that no substantial change in farming practices will
take place.
(c) Bullock Expenses. Bullocks used for land preparation,
threshing and hauling are usually owned by the larger land
holders and rented by the small holders. However, the
imputed cost of a pair of bullocks to the owner is
roughly equal to the daily rental charge. Consequently,
this cost has been uniformly applied for all crops and
farm sizes.
(d) Miscellaneous at 10% of total production costs includes
interest on short-term production credit.
Farm Budgets
3.        Based on the cadastral survey conducted by the MLR, about 61% of
the farmers in the project area have an average holding of 0.6 ha, 23%,
1.99 ha and the remaining 16%, 6.07 ha. Of the first group of small farmers,
about 40%, have holdings that would average 1 ha in size.  Therefore, four
representative farm sizes have been chosen for preparation of farm budgets:
0.68 ha (or 1 bigha), 1 ha, 2.04 ha (or 3 bighas) and 6 ha (or 9 bighas).
4.        Farm budgets for the four farm sizes are given in Tables 2-5.
The following assumptions were made in preparation of these budgets:
(a) Cropping Patterns and Intensity
(i) The cropping pattern in respect of the main crops of
paddy and wheat would be more or less the same
for all farm sizes except that the present cropping
intensity would be about 130% for small size farms
(0.68 and 1 ha) as against 120% for 2.04 ha farms
and 115% for 6 ha farms. At full development, the
cropping intensity on smaller farms would increase
to about 190% as against 180% for 2.04 ha farms and
175% for 6 ha farms.
(ii) The operators of the smaller size farms would grow a
crop of maize immediately after the wheat harvest and
before transplanting paddy on about 10% of crop land
to add to the supply and variety of foodgrains
available for family use.
86



ANNEX 12
Page 3
(iii) The operators of the medium size farms would grow a
small hectarage of potatoes while the larger farmers
would concentrate mainly on rice and wheat without
maize and potatoes. They would also continue to grow
sugarcane on their marginal land but on only half the
present area under this crop.
(b) Crop Yields and Total Input Requirements
Projected yields used in the budgets are given in
Annex 10. Crop inputs have been estimated based on the
input requirements discussed above and given in
Table 1.
(c) Hired Farm Labor. The monthly labor requirements, based
on Table I and the cropping patterns, have been calculated
for each farm size. The need to hire labor varies with
the size of farm. Generally small farms (0.68 and 1 ha
farms) do not need to hire any labor although there might
be some labor exchange arrangements during peak seasons,
as labor requirements can be fully provided by the farmer
and his family. Medium size farms (2.04 ha farm) will
need to hire about 8-10% of their labor requirements at
present and at future without project, but about 20% at
full development in the future with the project. Most
operators of large farms (6.0 ha) act only as managers and
hire all the labor needed to cultivate their land. Labor
inputs for channel maintenance at 12.5 days per ha have
been included in the future with project budgets.
(d) Prices. Present and future inputs are valued using the 1975
financial prices which in the case of fertilizers are sub-
sidized to the extent of 40-50%.
(e) Non-Farm Income. Such income is very limited as it is
derived mainly from field work on larger farms during
peak seasons.
(f) Irrigation. Costs of irrigation water have not been included
as a production cost in the derivation of net farm income.
Effect on Family Income
5.        With irrigation provided under the project, income levels
will change as follows:
87



ANNEX 12
Page 4
Gross Value  Production    Net Value  Non-Farm  Total
of                          of                 Family
Farm Size /a      Production      Cost    /b  Production  Income   Income
-----------------------NRs----------------------------
0.68 ha (one bigha)
Farm
P               1,409          331          1,078         510    1,588
W               1,980          487          1,493         510    2,003
W               5,986        2,115          3,871         390    4,261
Increase
over W (%)         202                         159                   113
1 ha Farm
p              2,067           485          1,582         420    2,002
X              3,021           713          2,308         420    2,728
W              8,796         3,112          5,684         210    5,894
Increase
over W (%)        191                          146                   116
2.04 (3 bighas)
Farm
              3,919           907          3,012          60    3,072
W              5,567         1,505          4,062          60    4,122
W             17,406         6,947         10,459           -   10,459
Increase
over W (%)        212                          157                   154
6.0 (9 bighas)
Farm
P             11,466         7,795          3,671           -    3,671
W             16,296         9,590          6,706           -    6,706
W             49,944        28,747         21,197           -   21,197
Increase
over W (%)        206                          216                   216
Accordingly the net income from farming will increase 146 to 216%,
and the total family income 113 to 216%.
/a   P = present, p = future without project, W = future with project
/b   Does not include cost of family labor and management.
88



ANNEX 12
P~~5
Project Rent
6.        Utilizing the basic infQrmation presented in the fari  udget4,
the project rent was calculated for each of the farm models; when re-
duced to a per ha basis, it was found to be practica4ly tie same for
all four models. The assessment of water charges equal to 45X of the
project rent would result in a water charge of app;oximately Nl 800 per
ha and, assuming only about 20 days of off-farm employment per year by
operators of the smaller farms, would leave sufficiett i,wome on all
models to enable the farm families to live at or above the poverty level
of NRs 3,100 per family per year (Table 6).
June 1976
89



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA- UJMBINI MROUNDWATER PROJECT
Basic Inputs per Hectare for Various Crops
Paddy                  Paddy                  Maize                   Wheat                Oilseeds                 Pulses                 Potato                 SUgarCane
Local                  u.Y.V.
P      W      W        P      W      W        P       w      W        P      W               P              W        P              W       P       W      W        P      W       w
INPUTS
Seed - Kg                 30     30       30     30      30     30       -              20      60     60      60       10     10      10      30      30      30      -           1,200    3,000  3,000  3,000
NRS                45     45       45     75      75     75       -      -       40     150    150    150       40      40     40      120    120    120        -           2,400       Goo    600    600
Fertilizer
Complex - Kg           -       30     150      -      50    200       -      -      100      50      70    200       -      -      100      -       -     100       -             100       100    150    300
NRS                -      80      400     -      133    534       -      -      267     133    187    534        -      -     266       -             266       -             267       267    400    800
Urea  - Kg             -       20      50      50     30    100       -      -       50      25      30    100       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -      50        -      30      50
NRs.               -      61      152    152      91    305       -      -      152      76      91    305       -      -       -                                             152        -      91    152
M P-Kg                 -       -       25      -      10      50      -       -      30       -      10     50       -       -      -                                               30       -       70    100
NRs                -      -        46     -       18     92       -      -       55      -       18     92       -      -       -       -       -      -        -       -      55        -     129    185
Plant Protection          -       -      100      30    100    250       -       -      30       25     25    100       -       -      30       -      -       30       -      -       60       30      50    100
Wllock gxpenses           168    200      288    200    240    336        -      -     296      168    240    256       100    100    160      100    100    160        -             240       360    380    400
Total NRa            213    380   1,031    457    657  1,592         -      -      840     552    7.11  1,437      140    140    496      220    220    576        -           3,174    1,257  1,650  2,237
IAOR (man-days)
January                                                                                 -         6      6      15       7       7      8        7       7      a       -      -       60        40     40     55
February                  -       -                                                     -         2      3      20       7       7      8        7       7      8       -              50        40     45     55
March                      -                                                            20       15     15      25        7      7      8        7       7      8       -       -      20        60     65     75
April                                                                                   25       10     11      30       -      -      -        -       -      -        -       -      -         30     30      35
may                        10     10       10     10      10     10       -      -       15      -       -      -        -      -       -       -                                                10     10      15
June                      30      25      25      25      25     30       -      -      28       -      -
July                      30      35      40      35      40     40       -      -      -        -      -       -        -      -      -         -      -      -        -       -      -        -      -       -
August                     10     10       15     10      15     20       -      -       -                               -      -       -       -       -      -        -       -           -
Septe11er                   5      5        5      5       5     10       -      -       -
October                   20      20       30     20      30     40       -      -      -        -       -      -         7      7       7       7       7      7       -       -      70        65     65      70
November                  15      15       15     15      15     20      -       -      -        25     25      30       14     14      15      14      14     15       -       -      50        60     60      65
Decanber                  -       -        -      -       -      -        -      -       -       15      20     20       14     14      15      14      14      15      -       -      50        25     25      30
Total                120    120      140    120    140    170                _      88       73     80    140       55      56     61       56     56      61       -      -      300       330    340   400
NRU    @ IEa   6
per man-days       720    720      840    720    840  1,020        -       -     528      438    480    840      336    336    366       336    336    366        -       -   1,800    1,980  2,040  2,400
1/ Includes family & hired labor.



8KPAL
BHAIRAWA-UMY8INI GROUNDWATER FROMMET
Farm Budset for 1 Bisha (0.68 ha) Farm
Present                                 Future Witbout Prolect                              Future With Proiect
Area     Yield      Production     Value         Area     Yield      Production     Value         Area      Yield     Production      Value
ha      t/ha          tons          Bs.          ha      t/ha         t.ans         NR.s          ha       t/ha         tons          Rs
Revenue
Paddy (local)              0.61      1.1          0.67         939          0.61       1.6         0.97         1,358        0.07       2,7         0.19          266
'   01w)                 0.07      1.8          0.13         182          0.07      2.4          0.17           238        0.61       3.5          2.13       2,982
Maize                       -          -           -             -           -          -           -            -            0.07      2.0          0.14         252
Wheat                      0.15       0. 8        0.12          192         0. 15      1.2         0. 18          288         0.47      3.0          1.41        2,256
Oilseeds                   0.03      0.4          0.01           39         0.03       0.4         0.01            39        0.04       0.7          0.028         109
Pulses                     0.03      0.5          0.015          57         0.03      0.5          0.015           57        0.04       0.8          0.032         121
Potatoes                    -          -           -             -           -          -           -            -             -         -            -             -
Sugarcane                   -         -            -             -           -          -           -            -            -
Total                  0.85                               1.409         0.89                                1,980         1.30                              5,986
Net Cultivated Area        0.68                                             0.68                                              0.68
Cropping Intensity         131%                                             131%                                              191%
Production Costs
Seed                        -          -           -             58          -          -           _              58          -         -            _            129
Fertilizer                  -          -           -             40           -         -                         145          _          _                      1,10l
Plant Protection            -          -           -              6          -          -           _              11          -                                   211
Bullock Expenses            -          -           -            146           -         -                         178          -          -           _            379
Hired labor                 -         -            -              .          _          _           _               _          _         _            _
Land Tax                    -                      -             51          _          _           _              51          -          -           _             51
Channel Maintenance         -         -            -            -            -                                    4 4 -        -         -            -             5i
Miscellaneous                                                    30                              -44                                                               115
Total                                                      331                                               487                                            2,115
Net Income before Irri-                                                                                                                                          3
gation Costs                                              1,078                                              1,493                                           3,871
Incremental Income                                                                                                                                                              E 9
1. Over Present                                                                                                                                               2,793
2. Over Future Without Project                                                                                                                                2,378
Non-farm Income                                                 510                                               510                                              390
   Total Family Income                                           1,588                                              2,003                                            4,261



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJYiCT
Farm Budget For One Hectare Farm
Present, Future Without and With Project
Present                                 Future Without Pro1ect                            Future With Proiect
Area     Yiel      Production      Value        Area     Yield     Production      Value        Area      Yield     Production      Value
ha       t/ha        tons      (Farm Gate)      ha      t/ha          tons         NRs.         ha       tjha         tons          we
NRs.
Revenue
Paddy (local)             0.9        1.1         0.99        1,386         0.8       1.6         1.28         1,792        0.1        2.7         0.27          378
"   ( HYV)              0.1        1.8         0.18          252         0.2       2.4         0.48           672        0.9        3.5         3.15       4,410
Maize                       -         -           -             -           -         -           -            -           0.1        2.0         0.20          360
Wheat                     0.2        0.8         0.16           256        0.2       1.2          0.24          384        0.7        3.0         2.10        3,360
Oilseeds                  0.05       0.4         0.02           78         0.05      0.4         0.02            78        0.05       0.7         0.03          136
Pulses                    0.05       0.5         0.025           95        0.05      0.5         0.025           95        0.05       0.8         0.04          152
Potatoes                         -          -            -            -          -          -            -                  -          -           -             -
Sugarcane                                                                                                -                              -                        -
Total                1.30                               2,067         1.30                               3,021        1.90                              8,796
Net Cultivated Area       1.00                                             1.00                                            1.00
Cropping Intensity        130%                                             1307                                            190%
Production Costs
Seed                       -          -           -             86          -         -           -              86         -          -           -            189
Fertilizer                  -         -           -             5T          -         -            -            210          -         -           -          1,623
Plant Protection            -         -           -              8          -         -            -             15         -          -           -            311
Bullock Expenses            -         -           -            215          -         -            -            262          -         -           -            556
-Mired labor               _-                            -                       -                 -                         -_
Land Tax                    -         -           -             75          -         -            -             75         -                                    75
Labor of Channel Maintennce           -           -             -           -         -            -           -             -                                   735
Miscellaneous                                                                                                    65                                             283
Total                                                     486                                              713                                           a,112
Net Income before Irrigation
Costs                                                  1,582                                            2,308                                           5,684
Incremental Income
1. Over Present                                                                                                                                            4,102
2. Over Future Without Project                                                                                                                             3,376
Non-farm Income                                               420                                              420                                             210
Total FamilY Income                                         2,002                                            2,728                                          5,894



NEPAL
BHAIIAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Farm Budget For 3 Bighas (2.04 ha) Farm
Present                                 Future Without Proiect                     _       Future With Project
Area     Yield      Production     Value         Area     Yield      Production      Value         Az-ea    Yield      Production      Value
hs      t/ha          tuna         NRs,          ha      t/ha          tons          NRa.          ha      tlh           tons
Revenue
Paddy (local)                1.83       1.1         2.01         2,814         1.83      1.6          2.93        4,102         0.21       2.7          0.57          798
(HYV)                 0.21       1.8          0.38          532         0.21      2.4          0.50           700         1.83      3.5          6.40         8,960
Maize                              -           -            -            -           -          -            -            -            -                 -           -
Wheat                        0.30       0.8         0.24           384         0.30      1.2          0.36           576        1.30       3.0          3.90        6,240
Oilseeds                     0.06      0.4          0.024           94        0.06       0.4         0.024           94         0.14      0@7           0.10          390
Pulses                       0.05      0.5          0.025           95        0.05       0.5         0.025           95         0.14      08          0.11           410
Potatoes                      -          -           -            -             -         -            -           -            0.06      10.0          0.60          600
Sugarcane                     -                                   -             -                                  -             -          -           -            -
Total                   2.45                               3,919         2.45                                5,567         3.68                               17,406
Net Cultivated Area          2.04                                             2.04                                              2.04
Cropping Intenaity           1207                                              1201                                             180%
Production Costs
Seed                          -          -           -             152               -                 -             is-                    -            _            508
Fertilizer                    -          -           -              95         -          -            -            398          -          -            -          3,142
Plant Protection              -          -           -              14          -         -            -              28         -          -            -             621
Bullock Expenses              -          -           -             411          -         -            -            499          -          -            -           t 067
Hired labor                   -          -           -                          -         -            -            138          -          -            -            672
Land Tax                      -          -           -             153          _-                     -             153         -          -            -             153
Channel Maintenance           -          -           -             -                                                -            -          -            -             153
Miscellaneous                                                       82                                               137                                               631
Total                    -         -            -             907              -                 -           1,545          -          -           -
Net Income before irri-       -          -           -           3,012                    _                       4,0t*          -          -            -         10,459
gation costs
Incremental Income
1. Over Present
2. Over Future Without Project                                                                                                                                   6,397
Non-farm Income                                                     60                                               60                                                -
Total Family Income                                              3,072                                            4,122                                            10,459



NEPAL
BHlAIRAWA-IMBINI GROTJNDWATER PROJECT
Farm Budget for 9 BighaS (6 hal Farm
Present                                 Future Without Project                             Future With Proiect
Area     Yield     Production      Value        Area      Yield     Production      Value        Area      Yield     Production      Value
ha      ttha          tons         NRs.         ha       t/ha         tons         KRe.          ha       t7ha         tons          NRs
Revenue
Paddy (local)                5.5       1.1          6.05        8,470        5.5        1.6         8.80        12,320        0.5        2.7          1.35        1,890
"   (HYV)                 0.5        1.8         0.90         1,260        0.5       2.4          1.20         1,680        5.5        3.5         19.25       26,950
Maize                         -         -            -           -            -          -            -           -             -
Wheat                        0.5       0.8          0.40          640         0.5       1.2         0.60           960         4.0       3.0         12.00        19,200
Oilseeds                     0.1       0.4         0.04           156        0.1        0.4         0.04           156        0.2        0.7          0.14           546
Pulses                       0.1       0.5         0.05           190        0.1        0.5         0.05           190        0.2        0 8          0.16           608
PotatoeS                      -         -            -           -             -         -            - _--
Sugarcane                    0.2      25.0         5.00           750        0.2       30.0         6.00           990        0.1       50.0          5.00          750
Total                  6.9         -           -          11,466        6.9         -           -                       10.5         -            -         49.944
Net Cultivated Area          6.0        -           -            -           6,0         --                       -            6.0        -            -
Cropping Intensity           115%       -           -            -           115%        -           -            -          175%         -            -
Production Costs
Seed                          -         -                         496         -          -           -             496          -         -            -           1,127
Fertilizer                    -         -            -            234          -         -            -          1,168                    -            -           9,364
Plant Protection              -         -            -             34          -         -            -             73          -         -            -           1,847
Bullock Expenses              -         -            -          1,200          _         -            -          1,436          -         -            -           3,120
Hired labor                             -           -           4,672         -          -           -           5,095                    -            -           9,776
Land Tax                      -         -            -            450          -         -            -            450          -         -            -             450
Channel Maintenance           -         -            -                        -          -           -                          -         -            -             450
Miscellaneous                                                     709                                              872                                             2 613
Total                   -          -           -           7,795         -          -           -           .T3PT         _          -            _         2,747
Net Income before Irri-       -         -            -          3,671                                            6,706          -         -                       21,197
gdtion Cost
Incremental Income
1.  Over Present            -         -                                                                                        _                                17,526
2.  Over Future Without Project       -           -            -            -          -           -            -             -         -            -          14,491
Non-farm Income               -
Total family Income                                             3,671                                            6,706                                            21,197



BHAIRAWA-IUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Pro.ject Rent For Four Farm Models
Farm Models
I (o.68 ha)          II (1.0 ha)            III (2.04 ha)           IV (6.0 ha)
Items                                 *                   w           W           w           _          w
(i) Expected Gross
Production Value
(NRs) 1/              1,980    5,986        3,021     8,796       5,567       17,X06      16,296    49,944
(ii) Certainty Fquivalent
of (i) (NRs) 2/       1,782    5,387        2,719     7,916       5,010       15,665      14,667    44,995
(iii) Crop Inputs (NRs) 2/   487    2,115           713      3,112      1,505        6,9h7        9,590    28,747
(iv) Family Labor
(NRs) L/                585    1,142          862     1,679       1,537        2,673        -          -
(v) Net Returns (NRs) 5/   710    2,130         1,14       3,125      1,968        6,o0)5      5,077    16,2L8
(vi) Management fee
(NRs) 6/                 71       213         114       312         197          604         508      1,625
(vii) Net Farm Returns
(NRs)                   639    1,917       1,030      2,813       1,771        5,441        ,569     lh,623
(viii) Project Rent (NRs) 7/           1.278                  1,783                      60                 12
(ix) Project Rent per ha
(NRs)                           1,879                 1,783                    1,799                  1,675
(x) Rent Recovery Index
with total charge of
NRs 800/ha 8/                      1                       3                        3                    47
(xi) Amount Available for
Family Living (NRs) 2/          2,57                  h,079                    7,239                 11,898 B
-  = Future without project; W = Future with project.
1/ Tables 2, 3, 4, and 5.    2/ (i) less 10%.         3/ Tables 2, 3, 4 and 5.                                         aN
k/ Some labor hired on Model III; all labor hired on Model IV.
5/ (ii) less (iii) and (iv).       6/  (v) less 10%.
7/ Net Farm Returns in future with project less future without project.
8/ Comprised of cash payment of NRs 725. and labor contribution of NRs 75/ha. Since the NRs 75/ha has been
1.0     deducted as a cost in the farm budget representing the future conditions with the project, in calculat-
Lu      ing the Rent Recovery Index the Project Rent (line ix) was increased by that amount.
2/ (ii) less (iii) and 725 NRs per ha.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
NEPAL
BRAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Farm Labor Analysis
General
1.     Even though the farms in the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project area are
relatively small, because of the labor-intensive methods of farm production employed
there is a shortage of farm labor in the area--particularly on the larger
farms. The operators of such farms find it necessary to recruit seasonal
labor in India to meet the peak requirements. Labor shortages occur in July
when the paddy is transplanted and again in October and November during the
harvest of paddy. Such labor shortages, particularly during the harvest
season, would be accentuated with the project.
Labor Supply
2.        Based upon the equivalent of two adult workers per family and
25 working days per month, the 4,500 farm families in the project area
could theoretically perform 225,000 man-days of work per month or 2,700,000
man days per year (See Table 1). The operators of small farms in the area
do some work for operators of larger farms during the peak seasons, but as
a group they are nearly fully occupied on their own farms during the peak
labor seasons when there is a shortage of labor in the area. The residents
of project towns such as Butwal and Bhairawa do not assist with farm work--
even during the peak seasons and thus do not contribute to the farm labor
supply.
Labor Requirements
3.        In the future with the project, the farm families could provide
the total labor required during all months except in July when it would be
necessary to hire help to assist in the transplanting (Table 1). In the
future with project condition farm labor shortages would also occur during
the paddy harvest months--September and October. As a result of the in-
crease in the hectarage of wheat there would also be substantial increases
in the labor requirements during February, March and April, but the labor
supply from project farms would be able to meet the requirements during
those months without employing outside help.
96



ANNEX 13
4.        The need to employ labor varies with the size of form,  As a
general rule, the labor supply for the farms less than 1.7 ha in size
can be provided by the operator and his family. Farmers cultivating
larger farms find it necessary to hire additional labor to assist with
the farm jobs during the peak labor seasons. Most operators who farm
over 5 ha act only as managers and hire all the labor needed to culttvate
their land. Such operators employ one or more full time laborera as
well as casual help as needed during the peak labor seo4ons,
5.        Under future conditions with the project it is anticipate4 that
the farmers would provide labor rather than cash to maintain the irriw
gation and drainage systems; it is estimated that this would require
12.5 man-days per ha per year. This requirement, which would omoupt to
93,750 man-days per year or 7,810 per month has been included in tho farM
labor analysis.
Economic Cost of Labor
6.        It is expected that under conditions of full development with
the project, the annual labor requirement of the project faris would
amount to 2,257,000 mandays in contrast to 1,126,000 in the future
without the project -- an increase of 1,131,000 mandays (Table 2).  Most
of the labor required to meet the incremental requiroments could be pro-
vided by the project farmers and their families and landless people U.vins
in the project area. However, during the peak season it would be neces-
sary to bring labor in from India. Such labor is available at a rate of
NRs 6.5 per day and this has been taken as the alternative opportunity cost
of labor during the peak season. During the slack season, the alternative
opportunity cost has been taken at NRs 2 per day which is consudered to
be the incremental cost of subsistence associated with workins in cont;ast
to remaining idle. In other seasons of the year when the farm labor supply
is nearly fully occupied, the alternative opportunity cost has heen taken
at NRs 4 per day. Utilizing these rates, an average alternative opportunity
cost of incremental labor is determined to be NRs 4.69 per day gnd the total
annual economic cost of incremental labor for the project is NRs 5.30
million.
June 1976
97



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Seasonal Farm Labor Analysis
Items                  Jan.    Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May   June   July  Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.             Total
Farm Family Labor
('000 mandays)       225     225    225    225    225    225    225   225       225    225    225    225           2,700
Labor Requirement
Future without pro-
ject ('000 mandays)   19       16     34     18     79    193    273    80       39    176    164       35         1,126
Future with project
('000 mandays)       117      142    168    181     86    228    297   150       78    321    3h5    144           2,257
Shortages:
Future without
project ('000 mandays) -                                           48    -               -      -                     48
Future with Project
('000 mandays)         -       -      -      -      -      -       72    -       -       96    120     -             288
%           13
'00



BHADWA-ILWwI 5lOROUDWWTE PR0MWT
leonuc Cot of Fa   abor
Itcs    aa     bb.   =.   =.   11=    J=n    iulr L.              SoDt. Oct.  YRL.  Dc
Labor Requirement.s
('000 Mwdu)
Future without project 19    16    34    18    79   193   273   8.0           39    176   164      35         1,126
Future with project  117   142   168    181    86   228   297  150            78   321    345   144           2,257
Incree nt with project 98   126   134    163       7    35    24   70         39    145   181   109           1,131
Average looenmc Opportaidty
Cost (k/sandya)        4      4      4      4      2      4      6.5   4       2      6.5    6.5    i          4.69
Ineremental Economic Cost
(flu/million)          0.39   0.50  0.54   o.65  0.01   0.14  0.16   0.28   0.07   0.94   1.18   0.44          5.30
0
'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
II



ANNEX 14
Page 1
NEPAL
BRAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Assumptions
1.        The economic analysis is based upon the following assumptions:
(a) Prices. The farm gate prices for crops and fertilizer in the
economic analysis are derived from projected 1985 world market
prices expressed in 1976 currency values and an exchange rate
of NRs 12.50 to US$1.0. Appropriate adjustments to these prices
have been made for freight, handling and processing. The price
assumptions are discussed in more detail in Annex 11.
(b) Benefits. The benefits for the 7,500 ha to be served by the
tubewells are measured in terms of increases in net farm
income over that which would be expected to occur in the future
without the project (See Table 1). The cropping patterns,
yields and production are presented in Annex 10 and the costs
of production in Annex 12.  For purposes of the economic
analysis, these costs have been modified to reflect the
economic cost of seed, fertilizer and labor rather than the
financial cost (See Table 2). Interest paid on production
credit (miscellaneous cost) was omitted. The project will
provide village roads for the 20,000 ha project area and an
improved extension service for the entire Rupandehi District.
These will result in some benefits to the enlarged area, but
these have not been quantified and are not reflected in the
benefit analysis.
(c) Labor. The annual incremental cost of farm labor under
conditions of full development has been evaluated at NRs 4.7
per day; for the total project it will amount to NRs 5,320,000
(Annex 13). The farm labor analysis includes the labor required
for the maintenance of the irrigation and drainage system in
the future with the project.
(d) Capital Costs. All project costs except price contingencies,
production credit and the cost of the investigation of the
second stage are included in the project costs (US$9.67 million).
100



ANNEX 14
Page 2
(e) Annual Operating Costs. The maintenance of the tubewells,
pumps and motors (NRs 35 per ha or NRs 262,500 for project),
roads (3% of original cost or NRs 345,000), transmission
system (2% of original cost or NRs 172,500), and servicing
of the agricult ual production credit (NRs 160,000) have all
been included in the annual operating costs. Allowance has
also been made for the replacement of the motors every five
years (NRs 3,809,375) and the turbines after fifteen years
(NRs 9,525,000). Finally, an amount of NRs 1,250,000 has
been included to cover that part of the cost of energy for
pumping -- related to non-project facilities based upon an
overall rate of 25 pais per kWh. (That part of the energy
cost related to the project transmission system is included
above as part of the project capital and operating cost.)
There would also be some cost of maintenance associated
with the investment in the agricultural services and exten-
sion program. However, since the benefit that will accrue
to non-project lands from this service has not been included
in this analysis, neither has the increased cost of operation
and maintenance associated with the extension program been in-
cluded. The cost of maintenance on the irrigation and drain-
age networks were considered as a farm production expense in
the farm budgets and deducted directly from the incremental
farm income in the benefit analysis (Table 2). Therefore,
it is considered as an annual operating cost in this part
of the analysis.
(f) Period of Analysis and Residual Value. The economic analysis
has been based oupon a 30-year period. The end of the 30
years would coincide with the end of the useful lives of the
wells, the first replacement of the turbines and the fifth
replacement of the motors. Thus, at the end of 30 years
there would be no residual value in the tubewells and appur-
tanant equipment. There would, however, be a residual value
of approximately US$400,000 in the drilling rigs and this has
been taken into account in the analysis. There would also
be some residual value associated with the canals and drainage
system, the village roads, and the storage facilities but to
be conservative these values have not been included in the
analysis.
(g)  Benefit Accrual Period.  All of the lands included in the
project are currently developed and are being used for
rainfed agriculture and only a minimum of development would
be required to prepare them for irrigated agriculture. There-
fore, it is anticipated that the time required to achieve
full production on the lands under each well would be rela-
tively short compared to the normal new land irrigation
101



ANNEX 14
Page 3
project. Even so, to be conservative, it is estimated that
no benefit would accrue to the water users the first year,
only 40% of full benefit would accrue in the second, 70% in
the third, 90% in the fourth and 100% in the fifth. It is
further estimated that 12% of the wells would be developed
the first year, 32% in each of the second and third years,
and the remaining 24% in the fourth year.  Reflecting both
the rate of benefit accrual under each well and the well
installation schedule, the accrual of project benefits is
estimated as follows:
Year             1   2   3    4   5   6   7   8
% of full benefit    0   5   22  47  73  90  98  100
Rate of Return
2.        The resulting cost and benefit streams are shown in Table 4.
The rate of return is estimated to be 19%.
Sensitivity Analyses
3.        Several tests were made to determine the sensitivity of the
rate of return to some of the basic assumptions made with respect to
both the benefits and costs used in the analysis.
(i)  A decrease of 20% in benefits                      15
(ii)  An increase of 20% in capital cost of              16
project
(iii)  A delay of one year in realization                 16
of project benefits
(iv)  All incremental farm labor valued at               18
going wage rate of NRs 6 per day
(v)  Combination of (i) and (ii)                        13
(vi)  Combination of (ii) and (iii)                      14
(vii)  Combination of (i), (ii) and (iii)                 11
(viii)  Shadow pricing of exchange rate at NRs 15
to US$1.00                                         23
June 1976
102



NE PAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Value of Incremental Production (Economic)
Value
Crops                                    Production                           Price           Incremental
F-W/0  /1        F-W Z       Increase                             Production
_ ________-- -_('000 tons)----------           (NRs/ton)          (NRs'oO0;
Paddy (Local)                11.56           1.35          - 10.21             1,938           - 19,787
Paddy (HYV)                   1.20          23.5             22.34             1,938             43,295
Wheat                         1.35          16.50            15.15              1,625            24,619
Maize                         0.00           o.ho             0.40              1,312                525
Oilseeds                      0.08           0.21             0.13             4,312                 561
Pulses                        0.17           0.32             0.15             4,000                 600
Potatoes                      0.00           2.50             2.50                900             2,250
Sugarcane                     6.00            5.00         -  1.00                175          -    175
Total                    n.a.           n.a.            n.a.               n.a.            51,888
Incremental Farm Costs                                                                          21,871
Net Balance                                                                                30,017
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* -                              -p 
1,/  F-W/O 5 future without project; F-W   future with project.
0
Li,



NEPAL
BHAIRAWA_-lKBINI GROUNDWAThR PRCJECT
IngcreAntal CroD Production Costs (loonomic)
IncreRental Crop
Unit    FuSure          InPritce                        PzttheLd.ls Coat
(NRH/unit)        (Is 00OO)3
*sddy (looal)             KG   217    15           - 202              1.9            - 383.8
Paddy (HYV)                      15   202            187              1.9              355.3
heat                       n    68   330             262              1.6              419.2
%Rise                             0      4             4              1.3                5.2
Oi3a..da .                 n      2      3             1              4.3                4.3
Pulses                     n     11    13              2              h.o                8.0
Potato"4                          0    300           300              0.9              270.0
Sugar Cane                 n   600   300           - 300              0.2            _  60.0
618.2
omplexn    351  2,667                              2,316              2.6            6,021.6
urea                        "   200  1,276         1,076              3.2             3,443.2
Muriate of Potash                 30  1,182         1,152              1.9            2.118.8
11,583.6
NR    88 2,334          2,246              na                            2,246.0
Bullock Team                  days  247    511          264               8.0                          2,112.0
Crops                      days 1,126 2,16 2       1,036              4.7            4,869.2
Irrigation iyutem         days   -      9             94              4.7               441.8       5,311.0
Total                   na  na    na              na               na                           21,870.8
T/ w/o  without project; W = with project



ANNEX1-4
Table 3
NEPAL
BHAIRAWA-LUMBINI GROUNDWiATER PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Stresas
(TJs$ ' ooo)
Net Benefits
Ydears                           Costa                   to Farrs
1                            1,352.0                         0.0
2                           3,213.8                       120.6
3                           3,271.4                        530.9
4                           1,623.0                      1,134.2
5                              163.7                    1,761.6
6                              165.9                     2,171.8
7                             205.4                      2,364.9
8                              264.0                     2,413.2
9                              264.o
10                             239.8
n                              167.2
12                              205.7
13                              264.0
14                              264.0
15                              239.8
16                              167.2
17                             303.2
18                              506.0
19                              5o6.0
20                             1420.8
21                              167.2
22                              205.7
23                              264.0
24                              264.0
25                              239.8
26                              167.2
27                              205.7
28                              264.0
29                              264.0
30                              239.8
1J Capital and Operating.
105



NIPAL
RHAIRAWA-LUNtBINT GROUNDWATER PROJECT
Organization Chart
Gruntar Resources                              M Ministry of Food
Dbve.opsnt Board       ---------------_Agriculture and Irrigation
Secretary, NiDistry
of Food, Agriculture
azid Irigation(XFAI[,Department of
and Irrig tion (IAI),                         rrigation, Yq'drology
______________________         I    and  Meteorology
Reprosentatire,
KeiWatry of Finance,
Meber
Representative,                                Bhairawa-Lumbini               -P roject Coordinating | 
Representztire                   ~~~~Groundwrater Project  ______________________       Co  itt"s        1!i
Ministry of  Cattr and                               (BlGP 
Power, Mmber
Representative,Project                                                     onsltantN           Chief  atrict Officer
Naim  Prolae  Maage
Coxiusion, Member
Assistant IUstrict
mrectoi (~~~~~~~~~~~~~*.~~~~J ~~Agricultural Developmeznt
Ldrector Generdt ,                                                                             Officer fRrteion)
Department of
Agriculture, MAmber                          Admini tration and
___________________                  Account= n                                    Bsprae"ntative,
epal ZlectUicity
Director General,                            Topographic Survey                                Corporation
MMN, lAber
Froject  YManagr,
_lanning, Deign                                  B2airava Grounhbmter
Representative,                               nd honitoring                                    FroJeet, N_bsr/Seeret
Nepal zectricity
Corporation, Member
Procurement
hapesentative,
Ministry of HMe and                            Construction
Panuayat, Member
project Manager,
Groundumter Rsowurce
Dsvelopaent Progra,
Member/Secretarr
lrect Lin Responsibility
---------- Advisory
V   Impl tig  Dhpartent.
g/ Coordinating Citt.s at national level for policy, program, budgeting and finance.
i/ Coordinating Cimitteo at project level for implemntation.
Asociate msmbers to attend as requesteds
Need, lairam Agriculture Saserch Station
lkLstriot lganaer, Agricultural DeveloPent Bank
Representative, Soil Sere Division, Departeent of Agriculture
Dlstrit Officer, Food and Agricultural  arketing Service Departmnt
Dstrict Officer, Agricultural Inputs Corporation                                                       106



BRD- 12074
am  62~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           am                                                        am                                                       am      APRIL 1976~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIL17
-.--                 C H I N A                                                                                                         N EPAL
INDIA                       B-.                               (TIBET)                                                                           RHAIRAWA GROUNDWATER PROJECT
-30                  ,           '      ; r          OSIMI-OT                                                                                          PROJECT   LOCATION   AND   CIVIL  WORKS                                                      30_
0X                                                                                                     , d ,,, \~,                                          7,7 PROJECT AREA  PROPOSED TRANSMISSION LINE
CESALEOT                                                                                               EXIST NG IRR GATED AREAS                              TRANSMISSION LINES EXISTING OR UNDER CDNSTRUJTION
NI'O POJECTIS IR                                                                                 RIGATION      PROPOSED POWER PLANTS
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OETA IRRIGAAD DETIO UNDERAOSTUIO                                                                              POWER PLANTS COMPLETED OR UNDER CONSTRUCTION
TERAI BOUNDARY
) ;                                 R _ SASKOT Cl ODU MK A Q  g                                                            -    = PROPOSED ROADS                                       WADMINISTRATIVE  UNDARIES AND NAMES
EIMSTPIN EASED ROADS                                 INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARICS
-     -MAJOR ROADS UNDER CONSTUICTION
MAHAEARKABAK      DA                       ILEK H     -    \  C.  4                                                                     RAILWAYS
r  RN ,!  -  !2- 
-S X ,                                                   \     i                      ,r      '         \-^i  0
F  ~#~CKp<4RIRRcIR1Oat ORse ~R     R   N
4-~~~ ~\ ,  >?        HODPAAN,. 
-AT^RNT^N92   tmB   _  D   I  i 4 :4                                                        I        N                   (                                          T  B E T I
MRTHAY\O\                                                                                                             , EGTN OH R,NSOUNCHE 
Sea  Ix                                                                                                       <- ;                                              X;?o
5 @  u    SRI LANCA            A5 MS                                      ,
DD SL _ 26'  82.                                      '    8C4.                                                      86-






NEPAL
BHAIRAWA GROUNDWATER PROJECT
PROJECT AREA
APPROXIMATE LIMITS OF GROSS PROJECT AREA
2::SOUTHERN LIMITS OF BHIABAR ZONE SEDIMENTS
- -NORTHERN LIMITS SF FLO WINO ARTESIAN WATER
274000
C  GROUNDWATER CONEMAND AREA 1120 ha no UNDER EACH WELL)
PARROHA                    ..-tAAREA OF INTENSIVE DEVELOPMENT OF SMALL
/<;fr7;;cAt;4t12: /~~~~~~~~~v~~  '          .                                             N        >NN  O~~~~IAMETEDFLDWING WELLS
GROSS COMMAND AREA OF EXISTING SURFACE IRRIGATION
FOREST
--VI LLAGE RODADS TO BE CONSTRUCTED
-t  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                         -A  ~~~~~                                                   -- EXISTINO TRACKS TO BE UPGRADED TO VILLASEEXI      GOADS TR C S T0   EU G  A   ED  O   IL L GE   O D
kHAR$IJ,EKAN-  I  ~ ~        ~         ~         ~        j7 ~~~~4~#AHA                k\--N LACK TOP ROAD UNDER CONSTROCTION
~~~-        1~~~~~~:.W.       \                ~~~~~~~~~~- EXISTING NLACK TOP ROADS
A  I                                                                    - --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING UNMETALED ROADS
'-N-  /                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33 kV TRANSMISSION LINES EXISTING OR UNDER CONSTRUCTION
%                                                                             -,oC-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ )CONTOUR LINES IN FEET
><~~~~~~~t  V               j~,RIVERS AND STREAMS
SITEAJEURA  ,  ~~~~~~~  W1                     /4'         t                -  $AkAHEA                                        7    (4'             S2'~~~~~~~~~~~C   TOWNS AND VILLAGES
-27'                                                                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27%'35
KILOMETERS
All~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
V.~~~~~/
PAKOSTADfr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
BAREWIA                                                                                                                  N'D   I  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HVA               fI
z3?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ITHAR
The b ~d,ufdfe , h-  'n(Dmp~           -                N     1           A
0300                       Uce                        N- ..y.c   I TERNTIOAL BOuNDARIE-






\             miT)
'                                       I,
N E P A L                                                                                                                                              N E P A L
BHAIRAWA GROUNDWATER PROJECT
'   R.NPAL    ~    ~ ~ -                                                                                                                                     E      A
#MIA     OF0A 
MM 52   tS   fie-\w_w*                                                                                                       TYPICAL IRRIGATION SERVICE  UNIT
s                                                                                        @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j A.ND IRRIGATED AREA IN h,.
[   \                              _                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN IRRIGATION CANAL
t t _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN DRAINS
E,025 o 50 100 6o 200 2so _ /09 = O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CONTROL STRUCTURES
505    0160 160 26020
.ETE.SB _7                                                    /                 |I                                                                 TURNOUTS
The b60odoe town on0600 thi, 'sop d2 sot 
imply endonement 0r aiccCptinle by the
R'<td D&tnk: end ,to ,ttSerR



