CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 654 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Bhairava-Lumbini Groundwater Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 9, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 9, 1976, between THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following addi- 'onal terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ADBN" means the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal,
a body corporate established pursuant to the Borrower's Agricul-
tural Development Bank Act, 1967, as amended, and includes any
successor or successors thereto.
(b) "AIC" means the Agricultural Inputs Corporation, a
corporation established under the Borrower's Corporation Act,
1964, and includes any successor or successors thereto.
(c) "DIHM" means the Department of Irrigation, Hydrology
and Meteorology in the Borrower's Ministry of Food, Agriculture
and Irrigation, and includes any successor or successors thereto.


﻿-3-
(d) "Groundwater Resources Development Board" means the
board of that name established by the Groundwater Resources Devel-
opment Board (Formation) Order, 2031 (1974).
(e) "NEC" means the Nepal Electricity Corporation, a cor-
poration established under the Borrower's Nepal Electricity Cor-
poration Act, 2019 (1962), and includes any successor or successors
thereto.
(f) "Project" and references to "Parts" thereof means the
project and parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment.
Cg) "Project Area" means the area of about 20,000 hectares
in the Rupandehi District of the Western Terai shown on the.Bank's
map number IBRD-12075 (April 1976).


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nine million dollars ($9,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿0                           -5-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1986, and ending March 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the ADBN; AIC; the Department of Agriculture of the Min-
istry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation; DIHM; Ministry of Home
and Panchayat and NEC with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate agricultural, engineering and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall establish an office, hereinafter
called the Bhairava-Lumbini Groundwater Project Office, within the
DTHM which shall be sufficiently empowered, staffed and supported
to implement Parts A, C, D (3), F (2) and F (3) of the Project and
to coordinate the activities of other agencies of the Borrower in-
volved in implementing other Parts of the Project. The Bhairawa-
Lumbini Groundwater Project Office shall be directed by a suitably
qualified and experienced Project Manager.
(c) The Borrower shall take all such further action as may
be required to ensure coordination of the activities of the agen-
cies involved in implementing the Project, including the follow-
ing:
(i) The Borrower's Groundwater Resources Development
Board shall decide finally any policy questions
or disputes among agencies which may arise and
shall approve Project implementation programs and


﻿budgets. Representatives of NEC and the Ministry of
Home and Panchayat shall be added to such Board as
members as required for purposes of dealing with
Project issues. The Order referred to in Section 1,02
(d) of this Agreement shall not be substantially
amended in such a manner as to diminish such Board's
effectiveness in carrying out the foregoing functions,
or revoked.
(ii) The Borrower shall establish a project coordinat-
ing committee which shall be chaired by the Chief
District Officer, Rupandehi District, and shall
include as members an NEC representative, Assistant
District Agricultural Officer and the Project
Manager. Such committee shall include, as ad hoc
participants to be called as needed, the head of
the Bhairawa Agriculture Research Station, district
officer of the AIC, di,.rict manager of ADBN and
representatives of the Soil Survey Division and of
the Food and Agricultural Marketing Service Depart-
ment of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irri-
gation. Such committee shall meet regularly to ad:vise
and assist the Project Manager in coordinating
implementation of the Project, siting tubewells and
forming water-users groups.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in (a) procure-
ment, construction, administration, operation and maintenance in
connection with the Project and (b) carrying out the studies de-
scribed in Parts F (2) and F (3) of the Project, the Borrower


﻿8-
shall amploy engineering, management and agricultural consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of em-
ployment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards in-
cident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rover to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall submit to the Association annually
its detailed plans for implementing the Project in its next fiscal
year, including estimates of the financial requirements of the
agencies involved in implementing the Project, Without limitation
to the generality of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Bor-
rover shall, on the basis of such estimates, make adequate budget-
ary provision for such agencies to enable them to implement the
Project.


﻿*)                                     -9-
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(d) The Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project Office shall
monitor the effect of the tubewells on the groundwater aquifers in
the Project Area during implementation of the Project and for at
least thirty years thereafter. The Assistant District Agriculture
Development Officer referred to in Part E of the Project shall
monitor agricultural production and Project benefits in the Project
Area. Reports in respect of the foregoing shall be furnished to the
Assoclition annually not later than December 31 of each year, and
a bench-mark survey of agricultural production in the Project Area
shall be furnished to the Association not later than December 31,
1976 or such later date as the Association may approve.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction, installation and operation of the facilities included


﻿1-10-
in the Project and shall furnish to the Association if the Asso-
ciation so requests, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in re-
spect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, no civil
works contract shall be awarded nor shall force account work be
undertaken to construct civil works until all the land and rights
in respect of land required for the civil works involved have been
acquired by the Borrower or one of its agencies.
Section 3.06. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, a water users group, including as members all farmers
receiving water from a tubewell, shall be organized and duly con-
stituted in respect of each tubewell installed under the Project.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, no tubevell shall
be drilled until farmers holding at least two thirds of the irriga-
ble land within the area to be served by the well have joined such
a group and agreed to pay water charges and to assist in maintain-
ing irrigation works.
(b) DIHM shall be responsible for constructing such facilities
as are required to convey water from tubewells to turnouts serving
service blocks of between two and nine hectares. The Borrower
shall take all action as may be required to cause farmers in the
Project Area to carry out the construction of small water courses
from such turnouts and field drains and such land leveling as may
be necessary for such farmers to receive the benefits of the Project.


﻿*                            -11 -
(c) If any farmer within the Project Area shall not have
carried out the on-farm development works contemplated by para-
graph (b) of this Section within one year after the completion
of the tertiary canals and drains in the Project serving his farm,
the Borrower through the DIHM shall carry out such on-farm devel-
opment works and shall recover the cost of such works from the
farmer involved.
(d) The Borrower shall ensure that irrigation water from
tube-wells constructed under the Project is not released to any
farm until the on-farm development works contemplated by paragraph
(b) of this Section for such farm have been completed.


﻿- 12                                      0
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ADBN, AIC, DIHM
and NEC to maintain separate records in respect of the Project
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices their respective operations in respect
of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ADBN, AIC, DIHM and NEC each to:
(i) have such records in respect of the Project (balance sheets
statements of income and expenses and related statements as applica-
ble) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association through DIHM as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such records for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association
-Arough DIHM such other information concerning its accounts and
financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall, beginning not later than one year after comple-
tion of the works for each tubewell, establish and collect water
charges to enable the Borrower to recover from all farmers receiving
water from such well (i) the operating costs of such well -- energy,


﻿-13 -
operation and maintenance as they are incurred and annual contri-
butions to a replacement reserve for pumps and motors -- and (ii)
having due regard to the incentives and capacity of such farmers
to pay, a reasonable portion of the investment cost of Part A of
the Project in progressive steps over a reasonable period of time.
(b) At least every three years following the initial imposi-
tion of such water charges, the Borrower shall, in consultation
with the Association, review the level of such charges and the
procedures for their collection and shall make such changes therein
as are required to comply with paragraph (a) of this Section and
such other changes as may be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure the proper maintenance of
tubewell pumps, equipment and works in accordance with sound en-
gineering and agricultural standards and shall provide funds as
required for such purpose and to replace tubewell pumps and motors
in the Project Area.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times make avail-
able, or cause to be made available through AIC, adequate seed,
fertilizers and other agricultural inputs to farmers in the Proj-
ect Area.
(b) The Borrower shall make arrangements through ADBN for
the provision of agricultural credit to farmers in the Project
Area in order to enable such farmers to achieve prompt and pro-
ductive utilization of their land and of the water and other fa-
cilities provided by the Project.


﻿- 14-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) a Project Manager with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Association has been appointed;
(b) the Project Coordinating Committee has been established;
and
(c) the Borrower has made arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to employ a consulting firm for the purposes indi-
cated in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions,
to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Association, namely, that the Project is included within the defi-
nition of "project" in Section 2 of the Order referred to in Sec-
tion 1.02 (d) of this Agreement.
Section 5.03. The date November 9, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 15 -
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 16: -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to His Majesty's Government
Ministry of Finance
Kathmandu
Nepal
Cable address:
ARTHA
Kathmandu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUl)


﻿-17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ P. B. Khatri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-18-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Construction mate-          2,700,000
rials, equipment,
vehicles and spare
parts:
(a) imported                                 100% of foreign
directly                                expenditures
(b) locally pur-                             95'O of local ex-
chased from                             penditures
local manu-
facturer
(c) otherwise                                75% of local ex-
locally                                 penditures
purchased


﻿- 19 -
Amount cf the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Exnressed in        Expenditures
Categoy                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(2) Civil works (exclud-
ing items listed in
Category (1) above)
done:
(a) by force ac-             4o0,000         75% of local
count                                   exnenditures
(b) under contract         2,400,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
75% of local ex-
Denditures
(3) Consulting services         1,400,000         100% of foreign
exoenditires
(4) Unallocated                 2,100,000
TOTAL       9,000,000


﻿- 20-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or sunply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount


﻿-21-
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all exnenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allo-
cated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Associ-
ation are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Crefit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿-22-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which
shall be implemented by the agency indicated:
Part A:   Tubewells (DIHM)
(1) Installation of about 63 tubewells in the Project Area
varying in depth from 120 to 200 meters, equipped with
automatically controlled electric pumps capable of dis-
charging 300 cubic meters per hour, all of which will
be housed in brick buildings. Two drilling rigs will be
provided to install the tubevells.
(2) Construction of about 63 storage reservoirs with a
capacity of at least 2,000 cubic meters each to store
water from the tubewells.
(3) Construction of irrigation and drainage networks with
control structures to serve about 120 hectares around
each tubewell.
(4) Formation of, and provision of management assistance
to, a water users group for each tubewell for the pur-
pose of ensuring proper operation and maintenance.
(5) Enlargement of DIHM's Bhairawa office.


﻿-23-
Part B:   Transmission Facilities (NEC)
Construction of about 75 kilometers of 11 kilovolt transmis-
sion lines with stepdown transformers to 0.4 kilovolts to
deliver power from the existing 33 kilovolt Bhairawa-Butwal
grid to the tubewells.
Part C:   Road Construction (DIHM)
Construction of about 70 kilometers of gravel surfaced roads
of 3.5 meters' width to link major villages in the Project
Area to existing black-top roads.
Part D:   Credit, Input Supply and Marketing
(1) Provision of seasonal production credit to farmers in
the Project Area for farm inputs at level consistent
with farmers' demand (ADBN).
(2) Provision of agricultural inputs to farmers in the
Project Area (AIC).
(3) Construction by DIHM of a 1,000 ton grain store at
Bhairawa.
Part E:   Extension Services and Research (Department of
Agriculture)
(1) Appointing an Assistant District Agriculture Develop-
ment Officer for the Project Area who shall devote full
time to the Project and increasing extension staff in


﻿- 24 -0
the Project Area by adding about one trained Panchayat
level agricultural assistant for each tubewell installed
and four subject matter specialists.
(2) Enlargement of the Department of Agriculture office at
Bhairava and construction of training and housing facil-
ities for the training center at Bhairawa Research Farm.
Part F:   Miscellaneous
(1) Provision of vehicles and equipment for construction
supervision, Project administration and monitoring,
tubewell operation and maintenance and agricultural re-
search and extension work.
(2) Preparing a feasibility study for a fifteen to twenty
thousand hectare groundwater irrigation project in the
vicinity of the Project Area (DIRM).
(3) Preparing a study of existing water charges and recom-
mending their future levels with the view to recovering
full operation and maintenance costs and a reasonable
portion of capital costs of projects, having due regard
to the incentives and capacity of farmers to pay (DIHM).
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿-25-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B, contracts for the purchase of
goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Invitations to bid for contracts for irrigation and drainage
works, buildings and roads need only to be advertised within
Nepal.
2.   Contracts estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent
may be let pursuant to such competitive procedures as are appro-
priate to the circumstances, provided that the aggregate cost of
contracts so let shall not exceed $100,000 equivalent.
3.   Drilling and development of Project tubewells may be done
by force account by the DIHM.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods procured pursuant to international competitive


﻿- 26 -
bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the
c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-factory
price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties
and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar
taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii)
the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Nepal may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provi-
sions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Nepal
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Nepal equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Nepal.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 28-
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for drilling rigs, well casings,
pumps and motors:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommen-
dations for award of the said consultants and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly in-
form the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-29 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed conies of the contrdct shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


