Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMClAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13603
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2121-MAI)
OCTOBER 14, 1994
Agriculture & Environment Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Annual Average Exchange Rates
MKIUS$             US$/MK
1985              1.719               0.582
1986              1.861               0.537
1987              2.209               0.453
1988              2.561               0.391
1989              2.730               0.366
1990              2,729               0.366
1991              2,803               0.357
1992              3.680               0.272
1993 (April)      4.200               0.238
MK 1 = 100 Tambala
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADMARC    -        Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
ASAC         -     Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
CSR          -     Center for Social Research
DEVPOL       -     Statement of Development Policies
EEC          -     European Economic Community
EP&D         -     Economic and Planning Department
ESAF         -     Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP          -     Gross Domestic Product
GOM          -     Government of Malawi
HESSEA       -     Household Expenditure and Small Scale Economic Activties Survey
INDEBANK  -        Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
IMF          -     International Monetary Fund
1TPAC        -     Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit
LVD          -     Lands and Valuations Department
MF           -     Ministry of Finance
MFNR         -     Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources
MOA          -     Ministry of Agriculture
MOU          -     Memorandum of Understanding
NSO          -     National Statistics Office
ODA          -     United Kingdom Overseas Development Administration
PD           -     Planning Division (MOA)
PER          -     Public Expenditure Review
PFP          -     Policy Framework Paper
POSB         -     Post Office Savings Bank
PPM          -     Project Planning Manual
PSIP         -     Public Sector Investment Program
PT-F         -     Poverty Task Force
RBM          -     Reserve Bank of Malawi
SACA         -     Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration
SAL          -     Structural Adjustment Loan
SDA          -     Social Dimensions of Adjustment
SFFRFM       -     Smallholder Farmers' Fertilizer Revolving Fund of Malawi
SGR          -     Strategic Grain Reserve
SPSF         -     Social Program Support Fund
UNDP         -     United Nations Development Program
USAID        -     United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offi0 of DireawaI
Opmutom Evuutbon
October 14, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report on Malawi -
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2121-MAJ!
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Malawi - Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2121-MAI) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower
prepared Part II.
Both project design and implementation proved deficient. The very limited attempt
to "liberalize" maize and fertilizer marketing did little to change the basic role and mode of
operation of the inefficient parastatal company that dominated these markets. The attempts
to rationalize and increase the insignificant land-tax on the estates and to induce them to
produce their own fuel-wood were without effect. The review of public expenditure in
agriculture was weak. Nothing came of the pilot schemes to target fertilizer subsidies and
credit to poor farmers. The attempt to halt the transfer of land from smallholders to the
estates failed, possibly a desirable development since this helped small farmers to escape the
disadvantages of smallholder status: as tenants on estates they were allowed to produce higher
value crops and to get better prices at sale.
One important achievement stands out: the end of the estates' monopoly on burley-
tobacco production. Under an ASAC condition, the government permitted thousands of
smallholders, officially farming less than a hectare each, to produce burley tobacco, a most
profitable and labor-intensive export crop and a plus factor in land-scarce, labor-surplus
Malawi. With support from USAID, these traditional, cash-poor, subsistence farmers
responded by producing burley of better quality than that of the estates. They were also able
to use the cash from burley sales to purchase high-yielding, hybrid-maize seeds plus fertilizer,
thereby improving their precarious food security.
The PCR is adequate. The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, institutional
development as modest, and sustainability of the completed reforms as likely.
An audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMIENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2121-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
No.
PREFACE ................................................. i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................... iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                   ........  1
l.  Project Identity . ......................................... 1
2.  Background ............................................ 1
Past Government Programs and External Assistance  ..............2
Results of Past Adjustment Operations   ......................   3
The Government's Development Objectives and Strategy   ....                              .......   4
Bank's Overall Strategy   ...............................   4
3.       Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC) ......................   5
4.       Implementation:  Macro-Economic Reforms   .......................   6
External Sector   ....................................   6
Public Finance  .....................................   7
Banking and Monetary Policy  ............................   8
Outcome  .               ....................................... 8
Evaluation   ......................................    10
Public Sector Investment Program ......................... 10
5.       Implementation:  Agricultural Sector Reforms   ......................  14
Cash Crop Allocation ................................. 14
Output Prices ...................................... 17
Output Marketing and Input Distribution   ..................... 20
Rationalization of ADMARC  Funding and Functions   ............. 21
Fertilizer Procurement and Financing  ....................... 24
High Yielding Flint Maize .............................. 25
Land Allocation and Use ............................... 26
Woodlots .             ........................................ 27
Food Security   ..................................... 28
Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA) ..................... 30



Page
No.
6.        Overall Evaluation   .......................................  31
Credit Conditions and Covenants  ..........................  31
Weakness in Project Design  .............................  32
Performance of Government and IDA   .......................  32
7.        Second Tranche Release and Disbursement  ........................  33
8.        Sustainability    ..........................................  33
9.        Main Lessons Learnt ...................................... 35
Preparation, Supervision and Management of Structural Reforms ... ... 35
Smallholder Burley Tobacco Program   .......................  36
Coordination  and Follow-up  .............................  36
Public Expenditures  ..................................  37
Poverty-related  Pilot Schemes ............................  37
Environment  ...................................... 37
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....... 38
1.        Background   ........................................... 38
2.        Objectives of ASAC   ...................................... 38
3.        Performance of the Economy    ................................  39
4.        Performance of the Economy within ASAC Program Period  ............. 41
5.        Post-ASAC  Implementation  Period  Performance  .....................  42
6.        Policies Proposed Under ASAC   ......                        ...... ................... 42
6.1       Macro-Economic Policies   .............................. 42
6.2       Macro-Economic Policies Implemented  ......................  43
External Policies  ............................... 43
Public Finance Policy   ............................ 44
Fertilizer Subsidies  .............................. 45
Tax Reform    ..................................  45
Monetary Policy   ...............................  46



Page
No.
7.  Agricultural Policy Reforms                                                           ..                                         46
7.1    Cash Crop Allocation ................................ 46
7.2        Rationalization of ADMARC Funding and Functions ............. 48
Memorandum of Understanding ...................... 48
Improved Efficiency through Expansion of Private Sector ... ... 48
Divestiture Program ............................. 49
7.3   Fertilizer Procurement and Financing ....................... 50
7.4       Food  Security    ..................................... 51
8.        Other Comments on  the PCR    ................................  52
9.        Future Agricultural Adjustment Programs  ......................... 53
10.   Conclusion ............................................ 53
PART HI: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ........................... 54
TABLES
1.    Related Bank Loans/Credit ................................. 54
2.    Credit Data ........................................... 55
3.    Credit Timetable ........................................ 55
4.    Cumulative Credit Disbursement .............................. 56
5.    Use of Bank Resources .................................... 57
ANNEXES
1.    Macro-Economic Reforms (Table 1) ............................ 59
2.    Agricultural Sector Reforms (Tables 1 - 15) ....................... 63
3.    Policy Agenda Action Matrix ................................ 81
PROJECT DATA SHEET






PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2121-MAD
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (ASAC) to Malawi, for which the IDA Credit 2121-MAI in the amount of SDR 52.6
million was approved on 3 April 1990. IDA reflows of SDR 4 million for Malawi (Cr. 21211-
MAI) were approved in late 1991. A Dutch Grant of Dfls 5.0 million and a UK Program Aid
Grant of £ 10.0 million were also disbursed. The credit became effective on 18 April 1990 and
was closed on 31 December 1992, one year behind schedule. Of the total amnount of SDR 56.6
million, about SDR 70,000 remained undisbursed as of 2 April 1993. The last IDA credit
disbursement was on 5 March 1993.
Parts I and m, as well as Preface, Evaluation Summary and the Annexes, were
prepared by the Southern Africa Agriculture and Environment Division of the World Bank and
the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP). Part I1 was prepared by the Planning
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of Malawi.
Preparation of this PCR was started during a World Bank and FAO/CP mission" to
Malawi in April 1993, and is based inter alia on the President's Report No. P. 5189-MAI, the
Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
memoranda and interviews of Bank staff and Government officials.
Mu/Mmu  V. sbouh (rTk Mae, Ac6AE); IL Sq*a (Mim  Ladw, PAO/CP); G. RDZBll
(Apiuiwl Ecamit AF6ML) and C.G. Ranuubbu (Macro-Ecamame sp_a, Va.-ltan).






MAIAWI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2121-MAI)
EVALUATION SUlMMARY
Background
Ihe Government of Malawi undertook various stabilizaion and sltrctual adjustment
measures m the 1980s, supported by 3 IDA-financed SALs and oer extenal assistance.
These efforts led to some improvement in the fiscal and current account balances and modest
growth in industry, estate agriculture and some parts of the smallholda subsector. However,
the supply response to these measures was not sufficient to raise per capita incomes
appreciably, nor eliminate the need for balance of payments support. This was because a
number of policy induced structural constraints in the economy, in particular in the agricultural
sector, remained. The ASAC sought to address these constraints through a combination of
macro-economic and agricultural policy reforms.
Objectives
The primary objective of ASAC was to support the Government's on-going adjustment
program aimed at achieving sustainable economic growth and reducing poverty and food
insecurity. To these ends, the credit supported measures to continue and deepen on-going
macro-economic and agricultural policy reforms, as well as initiate new policy changes to
further enhance agricultural growth and thereby poverty reduction.
hne sub-objectives of the macro-economic reforms were to maintain the competitiveness
of exports and enhance the efficiency of import-substituting, industrial enterprises and public
resource utilization. The macro-economic measures proposed under ASAC comprised: (a)
maintainig a flexible exchange rate policy through periodic adjustments; (b) implementing a
duty drawback system for exports; (c) completing the process of import liberalization; (d)
maintaining the fiscal deficit at levels that could be financed by available external concessional
loans and grants; (e) increasing the efficiency of public resource utilization, through reorienting
the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) towards high priority investments, a review of
public expenditures in agriculture, a reduction of fertilizer subsidies and tax reforms; and (f)
developing an improved framework for monetary management and a market-based financial
structure.
In the agricultural sector, the main sub-objective was to address structural constraints
on the sector's supply response capacity, in pardcular constraints to increasing land productivity
in the smallholder subsector. The focus was on ensuring that smallholders faced price
incentives that would encourage increased production and productivity, and had access to
efficient input and output markets. Two additional subobjectives were to increase the efficieq
of production in the estate subsector and improve the effectiveness of targeted interventions.
iii



The reforms proposed were: (a) permitting smallholders to grow burley tobacco; (b)
introducing a two-payment price system for smallholder tobacco producers, to bring prices
nearer export-parity levels; (c) expanding the private sector's role in marketing smaUlholder
produce, by increasing maize marketing margins and legalizing private seed cotton marketing;
(d) increasing the efficiency of fertilizer marketing by expanding private sector participation
in distributing fertilizers and improving the management and financing of the buffer stock
agency; (e) improving the role played by the agricultural price stabilization agency, by
ationalizing its functions and the financing of its non-commercial activities; (f) reorienting the
maize research program towards the development of high yielding varieties more appropriate
to farmer and consumer preferences; (g) addressing the smallholder land constraint by stopping
the transfer of customary land to the estate subsector; (h) improving the efficiency of land use
in the estate subsector through the provision of private extension services and increasing land
lease rents, and (i) implementing pilot programs aimed at increasing the effectiveness of
interventions targeted to the resource-poor.
Implementation Experience
The implementation of ASAC was mixed - full and prompt for some measures and
weak or delayed for others. Among the macro-economic policy actions, experience was
satisfactory for most structural reforms, including import liberalization, tax reform, provision
for market-oriented banking and associated institutional development. Fiscal and monetary
restraint were also maintained, despite being challenged by the severe drought and suspension
of external donor support in 1992. However, the PSIP process, though improved, has yet to
be fully streamlined and no significant progress was made in the proposed reform of public
expenditures in agriculture. Successful performance in both these areas awaits broader
improvement in budget management procedures.
Among the agricultural sector reforms there is a similarly mixed picture. The most
notable achievements were the initiation of smallholder burley tobacco production; the
development of hybrid varieties of maize suited to smallholder storage and processing
preferences; the establishment of a two payment price system for smallholder tobacco sales to
ADMARC, and the reduction of fertilizer subsidies. In addition, the Government continued
the annual producer price review process, and conveyed the results of this to the Bank for
comments, as agreed; it implemented a policy to pay a 20% premium for maize delivered to
ADMARC depots in lots of one metric ton or more and it liberalized seed cotton markets.
Progress was also made in the ADMARC divestiture program and in increasing the supply of
fertilizer to the smaTholder subsector. However, the formal liberalization of fertilizer markets,
allowing private sector participation, was delayed until mid-1993. Similarly, the Memorandum
of Understanding (MOU) between the Government and ADMARC, which oudines the
'developmental roles' the parastatal is to undertake on behalf of Government and the mean by
which these will be financed, was only finalized and signed in December 1993. Finally, the
implementation of the ASAC strategies on land allocation, improved estate land use efficiency
and increasing the effectiveness of resource-poor targeted interventions have not been effective
and there was little progress in establishing woodlots on estates and in maldng arrangements
for the monitoring and evaluation of policy reforms.
iv



Results
The impact of some of the ASAC actions, especially structural reform, will be clear
only in the medium-term. In addition, some of the short-term resulLs, though evident, cannot
be easily measured, due to the absence of monitoring and evaluation arrangements and thereby
data. Therefore, the evaluation of the results and impact of some of the reforms is tentative.
At the macro-economic level, the response of the private sector to the more favorable
policy environment and institutional framework would perhaps have been more pronounced but
for the intervening drought and the resulting setback to economic recovery. The stabilization
measures implemented in 1990 appear to have contributed to improvements in 1991 in terms
of increased GDP, agricultural (and smallholder) production, and exports. The severe drought
and withdrawal of non-humanitarian donor support in 1992, however, led to a deterioration in
terms of the fiscal deficit, expansion of bank credit beyond anticipated limits and an adverse
balance of payments on the current account.
In the agricultural sector, the positive results pertain to the production of burley tobacco
for the first time by smallholders and the income effects of this; the elimination of subsidies
on some fertilizers and their reduction on others, with a consequent decline in the budgetary
burden, and the development of high yielding maize varieties suited to smallholder storage and
processing preferences. The progress in developing high yielding, hard endosperm varieties
of maize has exceeded expectations. Hybrid varieties were planted to 25% of the land
allocated to maize in 1992/3, as opposed to 3% in 1986/7. Although a variety of factors has
contributed to this increase, the development of the hard endosperm varieties is one of them.
Tangible indicators of progress in the provision of efficient marketing and supply services to
smaulholders include an increase in the number of private traders engaged in agricultural
produce marketing and in size of their operations, as well as an increase in the number of
ADMARC delivery depots (i.e., markets at which at 20% premium is offered on maize
deliveries in excess of one metric ton). However, the results of other measures have been less
positive, for a number of reasons. For example, delayed implementation in the case of the
liberalization of fertilizer markets and the rationalization of ADMARC's functions, means that
the results of these reforms is not yet apparent. In other cases, weaknesses in design have
made implementation difficult or ineffectual (e.g., the cessation of the transfer of land from
customary to leasehold tenure and increasing the effectiveness of targeted interventions).
Sustainability
The institutional developments and structural reforms which were initiated under the
ASAC and other adjustment programs seem likely to be continued and strengthened over the
years as means of developing and supporting private sector activity. Although the stabilization
measures (such as trade and exchange liberalization and restraint in fiscal and monetary
policies) were strongly challenged by the drought and donor withdrawal in 1992, they were
maintained. Moreover, the Government has recently intensified some liberalization processes,
for example implementing a foreign exchange auction and allowing this to determine the
v



exchange rate. These developments suggest that both stabilization and adjustment measures
at the macroeconomic level will be sustained.
Likewise, in the agricultural sector, some of the reforms implemented are liliy to be
maintained, including the legalization of smallholder burley tobacco production and the
development and production of more appropriate maize technologies. However, there is more
uncertainty with respect to some of the other agricultural reforms. This uncertainty stems from
two sources - the poor design of some elements and the degree of Govenment commitment to
others. For example, the attempt under ASAC to cease, through administive means, the
transfer of land from the customary subsector to the estate subsector was not succesfill.
Therefore the objectives and instruments behind this area of reform need to be rmessed. On
the other hand, Government commitment to the development of private sector markets appears
to be uncertain. The Government liberalized all smallholder agricultural produce markats
(except for those related to cotton and tobacco) in 1987. Moreover, under ASAC it liberlized
cotton markets. However, while ASAC attempted to support the further development of private
agricultural markets, the Government delayed in liberalizing fertilizer markets and it revrsd
its liberalization policies with respect to some commodity markets.
Main LeAons Learnt
Three main lessons can be learnt from the experience of ASAC, as well as a a number
of minor lessons.
(a)    Government commitment to reform  programs is essential to ensure effective
implementation and it cannot be substituted by conditionality. In turn, this implies a
need for close collaboration with Government both in preparation, desip and
supervision, in order to ensure that there is agreement on the principles and elements.
The delays experienced in finalizing the Memorandum of Understanding between the
Giovernment and ADMARC and in the liberalization of fertilizer markets, suggest that complex
and far reaching institutional refoms should be incorporated within the framework of
adjustment operations only after the necessary preparatory work has been completed and
agreement reached among the concerned parties on the details of implementation. Likewise,
the failure to implement some of the agreed actions during the credit period, together with an
apparent lack of consideration of the constraints to such implementation during supervision
missions, highlights the need for more thorough and collaborative preparation and for closer
and more comprehensive supervision on the part of the Bank.
(b)    There is a need to address the root causes of problems or constaints to increased
growth or poverty reduction if these are to be alleviated. Attempts to lift these
constraints through other means are liklly to fail.
For example, one flaw in the design of ASAC was an the attempt to use legal measures to
resolve market failures. The effort to halt the transfer of land from the customary to the estte
subsector through making such transfers illegal failed, because the incentives to transfer land
vi



in this manner were not addressed (i.e., the monopoly of the estate subsector on burley tobacco
production rights). Likewise, the attempt to increase the planting of trees on estates by making
this a legal requirement was unsuccessful, largely because fuelwood prices are subsidiz  and
therefore the estates can obtain wood on the market at prices that are lower than the costs of
own-production.
(c)   It is important to consider links between different elements of the policy framework
and to avoid designing reforms or other interventions in isolation. In some cases,
ASAC reforms failed to have the impact expected, because other influences on the
predicted outcomes had not be sufficiently considered.
Three examples of this problem emerge from ASAC. Given the importance for ASAC of the
formulation of the Government's investment program and the link between development and
recurring expenditures, ASAC should have addressed issues relating to public expenditure in
agriculture in a broader perspective, seeking provision for a review of the overall budget
management policies and procedures, which have a close bearing on both the PSIP and
agricultural expenditures. Similarly, more attention should have been paid, at the design stage,
to the pacing and sequencing of reforms. For example, exchange rate adjustments were
infrequently implemented, which lead to the need for large scale devaluations in 1992. In
addition, liberalizing imports when the Kwacha was over-valued, exposed domestic producers
to unnecessarily intense international competition. Lastly, it appears that a number of pilot
targeted interventions, supported by various multilateral and non-Government organizations to
tackle different aspects of rural poverty in Malawi, have had results which have been localized,
piecemeal and inconclusive. This suggests that there is a need for Government to develop a
more comprehensive strategy for and coordination of targeted interventions, based on an
evaluation of the many pilot interventions.
Three additional lessons emerge from the ASAC, which are not so generally applicable.
One is that smallholders in Malawi can produce very high quality burley tobacco, which had
been doubted previously. Moreover, such production has been efficient and profitable. This
promising opportunity to encourage increased smallholder incomes should therefore be actively
pursued and expanded from the point of both efficiency and poverty reduction. Another lesson
is that, after years of effective repression, the private sector in Malawi at the end of the 1980s
was very weak. In order to establish an environment in which private sector markets would
flourish, a more comprehensive, diverse and sustained effort than that envisaged or
implemented under ASAC was probably required. Finally, considering the broad agenda of
adjustment actions proposed under ASAC and the likelihood that many of them would need to
be pursued beyond the short period of the quick-disbursing credit, and in the light of delays and
ineffective implementation experienced in some aspects of the program, it appears that the
arrangements for management and coordination should have been more effectively
institutionalized, with provision for them to be continued on a medium-term basis.
vil



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMET CREDIT
(Cr. 2121-MAI))
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name           Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC)
Credit No.             Cr. 2121-MAI
RVP Unit               AF6AE
Region                 Africa
Country                Malawi
Sector                 Sectoral Adjustment Credit
2. Background
2.1        Malawi's economy has been severely handicapped by a combination of problems,
notably a poor resource base, high population growth rate, and landlocked position far from
any sea port. However, starting from a very low economic base, Malawi was able to achieve
impressive growth. during the first fifteen years after Independence in 1964. Real GDP grew
at an average rate of 5.2% per annum during 1967-79, well above the rate of population
growth. The balance of payments and fiscal positions remained fairly stable, with the current
account deficit varying between 7% and 9% of GDP and the fiscal deficit averaging less than
8% of GDP. However, the economy suffered a major setback in 1979 and, for three years,
Malawi experienced a sharp decline in growth and deterioration of the balance of payments and
fiscal positions. GDP fell by a total of 9.5 % during 198-/82. The current account deficit rose
to 21.2% of GDP in 1980 and the fiscal deficit, before grants, to 15.5% in 1981. From 1984
to 1988, real GDP rose on average by only 2 % a year while population grew by over 3 % per
annum. Despite a furither recovery of over 4% in 1989, GDP per capita was more than 20%
below its level a decade earlier. This deterioration of the economy resulted from a combination
1



of external shocks, namely: (a) a sharp rise in import prices, especially those of fuel; (b) severe
droughts in 1980 and 1981, and (c) rising transport costs due mainly to disruption of the rail
route to the sea through Mozambique. This crisis exposed some structural wealnesses in the
economy, including a narrow export base; a stagnant smallholder agiicultural subsector; heavy
import dependence in the industry and energy sectors; deficient incentive frameworks;
inefficient public enterprises and weak public resource management capacity. In response to
this crisis and these structural weaknesses, the Government, with IDA and IM assistance,
formulated a stabilization and structural adjustment program. Stabilization and structural
adjustment efforts have continued since then and ASAC was an integral part of these (see
paragraph 2.3-2.4).
2.2        Agriculture is the backbone of Malawi's economy. Up to 1990, it accounted for
about 40% of GDP, and 85% of exports and employment. Maize is by far the most important
crop in terms of cultivated area, number of growers, and food security. Other major food
Crops include groundnuts, pulses, cassava and rice. Exports are dominated by three crops:
tobacco, tea and sugar. Production is predominantly under rainfed conditions. Malawi's
agriculture is characterized by a wide range of farm sizes, but three main categories can be
identified - smalUholders, small estates and larger estates. Smallholder and estate agriculture
are differentated by regulations concerning production, marketing, pricing and land tenure.
However, over the 1970s and 1980s the development of a large number of small estates has
lead to the emergence of farms which exhibit characteristics of both the estate and smallholder
subsectors. Small estates are legally bound by laws pertaining to estates, but are managed in
ways similar to smallholder farms. Estate production focuses mainly on export crops, while
the smallholder subsector accounts for about 80% of food production and only 10% of exports.
The smallholder subsector involves about 1.8 million families operating under customary land
tenure on about 1.75 million hectares, producing primarily for subsistence.
Past Government Programs and External Assistance
2.3       In response to the crisis experienced in the late 1970s, the Government, with IDA
and IMF assistance, formulated a medium-term stabilization and structural adjustment program
covering 1981/82 - 1985/86. The program was supported by IDA through three SALs, by IMF
through successive standby arrangements and special facilities, and by other donors through co-
financing of the SALs and debt rescheduling in 1982 and 1983. The primary objectives were
to stabilize the economy; accelerate agricultural growth; diversify the export base; increase the
efficiency of import substituting enterprises and parastatals, and improve the mobilization and
management of public resources.
2.4       To stabilize the economy, the exchange rate and interest rates were adjusted more
frequently than had previously been the case; public expendiures were restrained, and
measures were taken to expand the tax base, improve tax buoyancy, and curtail Government
and parastatal deficits. With respect to agricultural growth and diversification, emphasis was
placed on improving price incentives for smallholders. To this end the Government adopted
and continued to use a producer price setting methodology designed with Bank assistance and
2



actions were also initiated to reduce fertilizer subsidies (paras 4.18-4.20). The legal framework
was altered to enhance the efficiency of the industrial sector through increased competition; thc
operations and financing of a number of parastatals were rationalized; Government's analytical
and planning capacity was strengthened, and improved budgeting i.ethods were introduced.
The Government implemented the program satisfactorily and the three SAL credits were fully
disbursed. Moreover, although the performance of the key macro-economic variables remained
uneven, the economy experienced significant improvement up to 1985. However, the economy
deteriorated again in 1986, largely due to a recurrence of external shocks - further declines
in export prices, another drought, and worsening regional political turmoil. In response to this
continued deterioration, the Government in 1987 prepared a new strategy (articulated in the
Statement of Development Policies (DEVPOL), 1987-1996), aimed at deepening adjustment
reforms. This program was supported by IDA and other donors through a Supplemental Credit
to the third SAL, and the Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit (ITPAC). The IMF
also supported the program through a standby arrangement and an Enhanced Strucural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and by further debt rescheduling in 1988.
Results of Past Adjustment Operations
2.5       The adjustment efforts under these various operations helped to improve fiscal and
current account balances in 1988/90, compared with the earlier years. In addition, the
inflationary pressures that had built-up were reduced and inflation fel from 31% in 1988 to
under 8% as of October 1989.  However, efficiency in the industrial sector remained
constrained by the fact that trade liberalization had not been completed. Past adjustment efforts
contributed to modest growth in industry, estate agriculture and among the larger smallholders.
However, due to remaining structural constraints, they did not succeed in eliciting the supply
response necessary to generate sustainable growth in per capita incomes nor sufficient foreign
exchange resources to eliminate the need for balance of payments support. For example, in
the smallholder subsector, population pressure on the land is the primary constraint, with
average farm sizes having fallen from about 2 hectares to 1 hectare over the 1970s and 1980s.
This constraint has been exacerbated by inappropriate policies that have resulted in: (a) a lack
of appropriate high-yielding food technologies (most importantly for maize); (b) inadequate
supplies and use of inorganic fertilizers; (c) a lack of access to the rights to grow some high-
value cash crops; and (d) a progressive reduction in the amount of land held in the subsector.
Maize research programs and budgets were focused on the development soft-endosperm, dent
varieties, which have unfavorable storage and processing characteristics. The use of fertilizer
was constrained by limited supplies, in part due to subsidization policies and inefficient
procurement and marketing. Under the Tobacco and Special Crops Acts (1965) smallholders
were unable to obtain the rights to produce burley and flue-cured tobacco. This lead, during
the 1970s and 1980s, to many larger smallholders converting their customary land tenure rights
into leasehold tenure, so as to be able to obtain a license to grow burley tobacco. (World
prices for burley tobacco rose considerably in real terms in the 1970s and 1980s.) All these
factors exacerbated the very low levels of land and labor productivity experienced by the
majority of smallholders and, thereby to the fact that over half of the population lived in
3



absolute poverty. ASAC therefore attempted to address these and other remaining stuctural
constraints to increased growth (particularly in the agricultural sector) and poverty reduction.
The Government's Development Objectives and Strategy
2.6        After the successive exogenous shocks of the 1980s, the Government placed great
emphasis on the restoration of domestic and external balances in its medium-term development
strategy. It was committed to maintaining a relatively flexible exchange rate policy and import
liberalization, stimulating exports, and ensuring efficient import substitution activities. The
Government's strategy also envisaged a continuation of fiscal and monetary discipline to reduce
inflationary pressure and ensure adequate credit expansion to the private sector, and measures
to maintain external competitiveness. Its strategy also provided for a comprehensive reform
of the tax system. Moreover, as indicated in DEVPOL, the Government placed greater
emphasis than it had done previously on promoting agricultural growth. Its primary objectives
for the agricultural sector were, and continue to be to ensure food security at the household and
national levels, improve rural incomes, and increase export earnings, while simultaneously
protecting the environment. The strategy aimed at meeting these objectives included measures
to ensure adequate producer incentives, the promotion of increased use of improved inputs and
the development of an efficient marketing system for the smalUholder subsector, and increased
land utilization in the estate subsector. With respect to environmental concerns, the strategy
includes promoting increased planting of fuelwood, improved tobacco curing methods and
better soil conservation. In addition to increasing agricultural productivity, the strategy
envisaged policies and investment measures to: (a) expand off-farm employment opportunities;
(b) slow down the rate of population growth; (c) enhance the quality of human capital through
improving access to education and health services; and (d) improve efficiency in the use of
public resources. The Bank and other donors supported this strategy and continue to do so.
Bank's Overall Strategy
2.7       The primary objective of the Bank's country assistance strategy in Malawi is to
provide effective support to the Government's effort in two critical areas: promoting economic
growth and reducing poverty in ways that are sustainable, both environmentally and in the face
of external shocks and shifting world markets. Based on lessons learned from earlier
operations, the Bank's strategy at the time ASAC was prepared recognized the need to:
(a)    address remaining structural constraints to an increased supply response
(as described in para 2.5 above);
(b)    strengthen  Government's  capacity  for policy  formulation  and
implementation;
(c)    sharpen the focus of adjustment operations in order to center policy
dialogue on a smaller, more manageable set of priority reform measures;
4



(d)    better integrate macro-economic and sectoral policy reforms;
(e)    improve the efficiency of the donor program  through increased
coordination.
2.8       With regard to the agricultural sector, IDA's strategy was to support the
Government's efforts to increase land and labor productivity in smallholder and estate
subsectors, and particularly among the resource-poor smallholders and female-headed
households. To achieve these ends, the strategy supported the development of policies and
investnents aimed at: (a) shifting research priorities so as to develop more appropriate high-
yielding maize varieties; (b) improving the effectiveness of extension services; (c) expanding
the use of fertilizers and access to credit; (d) expanding smallholder access to the rights to grow
high-value cash crops; (e) ensuring adequate producer prices and efficient output and input
markets; (f) increase the efficiency of land use in the estate subsector, and (g) conserving
natural resources.
3. The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC)
3.1       The agricultural sector adjustment program, supported by IDA through ASAC,
was an integral part of the Government's medium-term strategy and on-going stabilization and
structural adjustment program for the period 1988-91. The primary objectives of the program
were to achieve sustainable growth and reduce poverty and food insecurity. To these ends,
ASAC covered both macro-economic and agricultural sector reforms. Macro-economic
reforms focussed on increasing the competitiveness of exports and the efficiency of industrial
and public enterprises, as well as improving public resource utilization. To achieve these ends,
reforms in the management of the external sector and public finances were implemented.
Agricultural sector reforms centered on ensuring adequate producer incentives and efficient
marketing services for smaUholders; improving ADMARC's price stabilization capacity and
increasing the efficiency with which land is used in the estate subsector. More specifically,
ASAC envisaged measures to:
(a)    increase the flexibility of the exchange rate and continue restrained
monetary and fiscal policies; improve export incentives; complete the
final stages of trade liberalization; and revise the Banking Act to enhance
monetary management and introduce a market-based monetary and credit
system;
(b)    focus the Public Sector Investment Program  (including agricultural
expenditures) on areas of high priority and returns;
(c)    improve crop pricing and marketing policies through expanding the role
of the private sector;
5



(d)    improve fertilizer availability and use among smalUholders, through
reducing fertilizer subsidies; liberalizing the distribution of fertilizer and
improving the financial management and funding of the Smallholder
Farmers' Fertilizer Revolving Fund of Malaw; (SFFRFM);
(e)    rationalize the Agricultural Development Marketing Coxporation's
(ADMARC's) financing to enable it to more effectively implement its
role as a price stabilization agency;
(f)    shift the maize research agenda and budget toward develop hybrid flint
maize varieties that are high-yielding and have pounding and storage
characteristics which are acceptable to smaUholders;
(g)    allow smallholders to grow high-value cash crops, especially burley
tobacco, in order to enhance incomes and thereby agricultural
intensification and diversification;
(h)    halt the transfer of land from customary tenure to leasehold tenure and
increase the efficiency of land use among estates through adjusting land
lease rents more frequently and improving rent collection, and
establishing extension services for the estate subsector;
(1)    review  and restructure agricultural expenditures to ensure cost-
effectiveness and consistency with sectoral priorities;
(j)    initiate pilot schemes to develop ways of targeting fertilizer subsidies and
credit to the poor; and
(k)    strengthen the Government's capacity to monitor and redress impact of
the adjustment program on the poor.
4. Implementation: Macro-Economic Reforms
External Sector
4.1       The exchange rate. The basic strategy under the ASAC was to continue and
expand on-going structural reforms while maintaining an environment of macro-economic
stability. This was to be achieved by following a more flexible exchange rate policy, supported
by non-accommodating financial (fiscal and monetary) policies, while developing an
increasingly liberal trade and exchange system. Discretionary exchange rate adjustments were
to be made when differences in the rates of inflation between Malawi and its trading partners
led to a deterioration in the competitiveness of its exports. Thus, the authorities devalued the
Malawi Kwacha by 79 in March 1990, in relation to the currency basket to which it was
pegged. Devaluation was implemented along with a set of other stabilization measures
6



including import liberalization, improved export incentives, and reforms in monetary and tax
policies. These actions, together with the beneficial impact of favorable weather conditions and
substantial external financial aid, led to a turn-around of the economy in 1991. However,
Malawi was hit during the following year by three major econoidc shocks - the severest
drought of the century, the suspension of non-humanitarian assistance by donors, and growing
labor unrest which led to wage and salary increases and inflationary pressures. The
Government met this situation by again taking various compensatory fiscal and monetary policy
actions, including devaluing the Kwacha twice - by 15% in March 1992 and by 22% in June
1992. The Kwacha had appreciated substantially between March 1990 and March 1992,
suggesting that devaluations were not as frequent as they should have been during this period.
4.2       Trade liberalization. The last stage of an import liberalization was completed
under ASAC. By early 1991, the prior foreign exchange approval requirement had been
removed for all imports, except a narrow negative list of luxury items. Import liberalization
did lead to an increased access to imports, but this had a mixed effect. Although it eased
access to spare parts and other inputs, in the context of an over-valued Kwacha the
liberalization of imports also increased the level of competition domestic manufacturers faced
from abroad. Better coordination between exchange rate and external trade policies could have
prevented this situation. As regards exports, following on earlier actions to reduce the range
of licensing requirements and provide tax allowances, the Government took further steps to
improve incentives under ASAC. These measures included the development and introduction
of a export duty drawback system based on widening the coverage of eligible goods and
streamlining the procedures for refunds, and initiating a new export credit guarantee system.
Unfortunately, the duty drawback system designed was administratively very complex.
Consequently, it did not become effective until very recently.
Public Finance
4.3       Under ASAC, reforms in the external sector were expected to be accompanied by
complementary fiscal and monetary policies in the domestic economy. Fiscal policy changes
were expected to establish financial discipline, develop tax reforms and improve budgetary
procedures. The Government was to continue reducing the budget deficit and keep it within
the limits set by the available external grants and concessional loans. The maintenance of the
deficit for 1990/91 at a level satisfactory to IDA was a condition for the release of the second
tranche, which was met. The major development in the fiscal area was tax reform. This
began in 1987 and was aimed at improving the equity, efficiency, administration and
compliance in the system. The tax base was broadened; the incidence of taxation was shifted
towards consumption and customs duties were rationalized with a view to minimizing the level
of protection. In the case of the corporation tax, a system of advance payment was introduced
and the tax was extended to cover parastatals. Other measures included the reduction of direct
and indirect tax rates, expansion of the surtax base, elimination of exemptions, rationalization
of the tax treatment of debt and equity instruments, and reduction of the tax exemption period
for bonded imports.



4.4        Faced with declining revenues resulting from external factors such as the Middle
East crisis and the closure of trade routes through Mozambique, Government had to cut several
low priority investments (in areas such as roads and telecommunications) and some recurrent
expenditures. Between 1989/90 and 1991/92, current expenditure as a proportion of GDP was
reduced from 21.6% to 17.4 %. Further actions were also taken to cope with the impact of
drought-related expenditures and increases in Government salaries in the following period.
Expenditure restraint was tightened, especially in regard to recurrent items, with steps such as
a freeze on filing of civil service vacancies and cuts in non-wage spending ceilings,
expenditure monitoring procedures were strictly enforced, and efforts were continued to
broaden the tax base and improve tax collections. As a result of these actions, the overall
budget deficit (excluding grants) was brought down to 5.7% of GDP in 1991/92, from 9% in
1988/89 (Annex 1, Table 1).
Banking and Monetary Policy
4.5       Reforms in the financial sector and of monetary control policies included an
improvement of the regulatory framework; a switch from direct controls on liquidity in the
banking system (e.g. through credit ceilings) to the use of indirect instruments (e.g., changes
in reserve requirements), and a move from administered interest rates to those determined by
market forces and changes in the Reserve Bank's rediscount rate. The bank rate, introduced
in May 1990, was to be linked to an auction rate for official bills, and the first monthly auction
of Reserve Bank of Malawi (RBM) bills took place in November 1990. The Reserve Bank Act
was revised to reflect these changes and thus RBM's regulatory authority was extended to
certain non-bank financial institutions and the RBM was enabled to carry out the traditional
central banking functions, such as open market operations and being the lender of the last
resort. Further, to promote greater competition in the banking system, the Investment and
Development Bank of Malawi (INDEBANK) was licensed to accept corporate deposits, and
applications of foreign banks to conduct business in Malawi began to;be considered. In
addition, the Post Office Savings Bank (POSB) is currently being restructured so as to reduce
its reliance on Government paper and enable it to undertake alternative investment options.
These reforms will increase the number of institutions in the formal financial sector and
increase the range of financial instruments and services supplied. They should lead to a more
competitive and market-based financial system, which could be expected to support a shift in
credit from the public to the private sector and a restrained monetary stance.
Outcome
4.6        Government took a variety of actions under ASAC, partly to ensure macro-
economic stabilization but also, by way of structural reform, to promote an institutional and
policy environment in which private sector activity could be provided with the incentives,
services and facilities to enable it to make its full contribution towards developing the Malawian
economy. These reforms are believed to have contributed to some positive developments,
including GDP growth at a real rate of 7.8% in 1991 (compared with 4.8% in 1990), improved
8



capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector, increased external competitiveness as reflected
in the volume of merchandise exports which increased by 51.4% in 1990, and a reduction in
the current account deficit in balance of payments from 13% of GDP in 1989 to 12.0% in 1990
(Annex 1, Table 1). However, in reviewing the likely impact of the various macro-economic
policy reforms it should be recognized that several of the actions implemented during the period
of the ASAC were elements of a broader program which had begun earlier and continued after
the full disbursement of this credit. In addition, it is not easy to separate the effect of ASAC
from exogenous developments, for example declining international tobacco prices and the 1992
drought. Thus the impact of actions implemented under ASAC is difficult to isolate. It is also
relevant to recognize that the effects of macro-economic policy reforms on the efficiency of
resource allocation within the economy are liely to become evident only in the medium-term.
4.7        Notwithstanding these reservations, the effects of the exchange rate adjustments,
together with the tightening of fiscal and monetary policies, import liberalization, financial
reform and improvement in the business climate in general, appear to have had a positive
impact. For example, these changes helped strengthen the competitiveness of Malawi's tobacco
exports. Likewise, following the lifting of restrictions, there was a significant upsurge in
imports and manufacturing, construction and agro-processing sectors appear to have been the
immediate beneficiaries, primarily in terms of improved rates of capacity utilization. It is not
yet clear if the reduction in protection which is implicit in import liberali   had an impact
on export-oriented or import substituting production activities. At least in the short nm, while
the Kwacha continued to be over-valued, some domestic manufacturers appear to have been
hurt by competition from the liberalization of consumer good imports (e.g. textiles). However,
further effects which could favor export diversification will emerge only over time, as they
depend on additional policy actions, adequate financial support and, above all, on the
development of the private sector. Moreover, it is likely that the response of the private sector
to the improved policy environment and institutional framework would have been stronger had
it not been for the continuation of various restrictions on private sector activities and the
drought.
4.8        The effects of stabilizntion measures can, in many instances, be reversed by new
adverse short-term developments. Thus, after the impressive results witnessed in 1991, there
was a setback in 1992, primarily as a result of the drought, donors' withdrawal of non-
humanitarian aid and labor unrest. These factors were further exacerbated by a continued
deterioration in the terms of trade, in particular declining tobacco prices. As a result of all
these developments GDP declined by nearly 8% in 1992, inflation accelerated to about 22%
and the fiscal and external financial accounts deteriorated. In addition, the volume of domestic
credit provided by the banking system to the Government and the private sector increased.
Despite these challenges and the set-back to the performance of the economy, the Government
maintained the external sector reforms implemented between 1998 and 1991 and continued the
implementation of many sectoral and structural reform measures, albeit at a reduced pace.
Thus the Kwacha was devalued twice during 1992 and fiscal and monetary policies were
tightened in May 1993. These measures, together with high levels of agricultural production
due to favorable weather and a resumption of donor assistance, have had a positive impact,
9



with inflation falling to 17% in September 1993 and economic growth for 1993 projected at
around 11%.
Evaluation
4.9       It is appropriate to distinguish the impact of the stabilizaion measures implemented
under the ASAC from the likely long-term effects of the structural reforms carried out under
the same operation. The former are subject to the influence of short-term factors such as
fluctuating levels of domestic agricultural production, developments in intenational tobacco
markets, and the volume external economic assistance. Conversely, structural reforms are
intended and likely to have a more enduring impact. The liberalization of the financial sector,
the rationalization of tariffs, the improvement of the tax system and other such reforms
implemented under ASAC have helped establish a new framework of laws, institutions and
practices, but it will take some time for the private sector to respond to this.
4.10       It is difficult to evaluate the impact of either the stabilization or adjustment
measures. In the case of stabilization, the magnitude of exogenous events like the drought and
donor withdrawal make an evaluation difficult. Also, as noted above, it will be some time
before the private sector can appraise the new circumstances that have developed as a result
of the structural reforms. Finally, more time is needed for sufficient data to become available
to indicate the nature and extent of the impacts of adjustment. However, in spite of enormous
difficulties, the policy statements and actions taken by the Government of Malawi in the last
few years reflect a strong adherence to market-oriented economic policies, at least at the
macro-economic level. This suggests that the reforms will at least be sustained. Thus, while
the implementation of agricultural sector reforms has not been quite as consistent, as will be
discussed below, the future of the macro-economic adjustment and structural reform program
is promising.
Public Sector Investment Program
4.11       The ASAC focused on three specific aspects of public finance management:
promotion of a sound Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP);
improvement in the efficiency of public expenditures in agriculture, and;
reduction of fertilizer subsidies.
4.12       The PSIP is a 3-year rolling plan developed by various line ministries and
coordinated by the Economic Planning and Development (EP&D) department in the Office of
the President and the Cabinet. Increasingly, the PSIPs are being discussed in draft with donors
to enable aid programs to conform with Government priorities. The PSIP is intended to serve
as a screening mechanism to ensure that the proposed investment projects are in harmony with
agreed Government priorities and that scheduling of investments is consistent with the overall
expenditure ceilings and the absorptive capacity of the individual sectors. The PSIP presented
10



to the Bank in October 1990, for the period 1990/91 - 1993/94, was considered to be in need
of revision, as levels of expenditure incorporated in it exceeded the fiscal targets set in the
Policy Framework Paper (PFP), and inter-sectoral priorities did not correspond to those agreed
at the May 1990 meeting of the Consultative Group, especially with respect to outlays for the
social sectors. A modified PSIP was subsequently presented to the Bank and accepted in
fulfillment of a condition for the release of the second tranche under the ASAC in October
1991.u
4.13        The PSIP has yet to evolve into an effective instrument for strategic planning of
public investment with due concern for inter-sectoral priorities, on the one hand, and resource
constraints, on the other. There are certain problems that will have to be overcome before the
PSIP can perform this function. Some of these problems are, however, in the process of
being addressed. For example, there has been a complaint that the financial cdlings within
which investment plans are to be formulated are not provided to the individual ministri  early
enough in the planning process.  In the absence of a realistic and timely determination of
available resources, individual ministries sometimes initiate implementation of projects for
which there is no assured source of funding. The accumulated backlog of such commitments
for unfinished projects preempts the financing available for future projects. An attempt to
remedy this situation, with information being furnished to the ministries at the beginning of the
budget process, was made in 1993/94. However, there are additional constraints to the
effectiveness of the PSIP. For instance, an emerging problem is that recurrent expenditure
implications are not sufficiently taken into account in determining the investments which go to
make up the development budget and in formulating the revenue budget. This partly reflects
the fact that, in each Ministry, the planning and administrative sections deal with the
development and revenue budgets separately, without an adequate institutional arrangement for
coordination. This difficulty is compounded by insufficient coordination on the part of the
EP&D and Ministry of Finance. Further, the coverage of the PSIP is not yet comprehensive
as it excludes some grant-financed investment projects and off shore expenditures and does not
take into account periodic cost revisions. In addition, in reviewing and controlling the actual
expenditures with reference to budgetary allocations, the Ministry of Finance is handicapped
by a lack of provision of regular and timely information from individual ministries.' The
overall impression, therefore, is that the PSIP represents a well-defined process and is
gradually establishing itself, but that there is need for further refinement so as to ensure the
requisite coordination and consistency with national priorities.
"  Bank missions have been, from time to time, reviewing the PSIPs in draft and offering their comment. The PSIP
for 1993/94 which is in preparation reflects, to some extent, the desired shifts in sectoral allocation with moderately
increased shares for water and sanitation, and agriculture and an unreduced allocation for oducation, though health,
another important social ector, received only a reduced share.
v' Such information is particularly critical in regard to local resources required: (a) to serve as counterpart
contributions correponding to external funds for financing investment schemes in the Development Budget sad (b) lo
meet rcurrent expenditures under the Revenue Budget. In the face of such procedural constaints and the overall
sringency of rources, the Government has to meet the challenge of ensuring that certain snotl miniml allocatios
ae made for prioriy sector such as heath, education and agriculture, under both these categoris
11



4.14       Agricultural expenditures.  It was expected under the ASAC  that a
comprehensive review of agricultural expenditures would be carried out, as a follow-up of the
World Bank's Public Expenditure Review (PER) of 1990. The new review was to make
recommendations to ensure that: expenditures remained within available resources, investments
with low returns were excluded, and an appropriate balance was maintained between wage and
non-wage expenditures and between investments and recurring expenditures. It is understood
that a study to this end was completed towards the end of 1990, but that it did not come up to
expectations. It was then suggested by the Bank that MOA explore the possibility of securing
technical assistance through ODA for implementing suitable measures in this area, but no
further action appears to have been taken in this direction. The need for attention to these
matters again gained urgency in 1992/93 in view of the difficult budget situation, the inadequate
counterpart funding for externally financed agricultural projects, and the consequential risks of
reduced utilization of external resources and slow project implementation.
4.15       The investment program in agriculture, as in other sectors, is constrained by the
difficult fiscal environment of Malawi, but not always planned with due concern for this factor.
Thus, for example, the Bank supervision mission of August 1992 found it untenable that MOA
had estimated development expenditure requirements at MK 87 million for 1993/94 and
MK 110 million for 1994/95 in the face of budgetary ceilings of only MK 58 million and
MK 70 million respectively. Another trend for a few years was for expenditure on goods and
services within MOA's budget to grow faster than that on staff salaries. This, however, was
recently reversed, following the increase of about 50% in civil service salaries in 1993, which
had to be accommodated through a cut in the allocation for non-wage expenditures. It was in
this context that the Bank supervision mission (referred to above) pressed for a minimum level
of allocation of funds in 1993 for non-salary recurrent expenditures so as to cover essential
agricultural services (especially research and extension) and for the inclusion in the budget for
subsequent years an allocation for goods and services which would be consistent with the
Ministry's mandate and operations. That this problem persists is clear from the following
figures of from MOA Revenue Budget Accounts:
_1991/92         iJ1992/9           1993/94t
(Actual)      (Revised4Esimats)   imates)
A. Personnel Emoluments           27.023
B. Goods and Services             31.061              5007            16.0B0
C. B as % of A                      113    -      X    4528 A    -
Source: Revenue Budget of Gov, of Malawi 1993/94.
12



4.16      Agriculture's share in the total development budget declined from about 19% in
1981/82 to 15% in 1992/93, but increased to about 17% in 1993/94. These figures reflect the
impact not only of the overall stringency of funds, but also the failure of the MOA to fully'use
the amounts allotted to it in the past. To be able to obtain and effectively use larger funding
for development expenditure in agriculture, the Ministry will need to demonstrate improved
capacity for satisfactorily implementing investment programs, in terms of person-power and
organization. Another persistent difficulty has been the tendency to under-estmate the
resources required for meeting the recurrent expenditure needs arising from investment
projects, both during their implementation and in the subsequent period. This has led in the
past to the commencement of projects without the assurance of counterpart funding for
development expenditures and of the revenue budget allocations for recurrent expenditures.
In turn, this has led to the deferral of project completions and to uncertainty about the
sustainability of such expenditures after project completion.
4.17      The problems involved in the formulation and coordination of the development and
revenue budgets have been engaging the Government's attention for many years. Despite
recent efforts to address these concerns by improving the budget procedures and the PSIP
process, the outcome, in terms of resources allocated and the projects included in the
development budget, is still largely determined on an ad hoc basis, mainly with reference to
the demands of the individual ministries. Addressing this problem - which is pervasive across
sectors - will require streamlining the overall budget process and establishing fiscal discipline.
It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and EP&D to ensure that, once a project is
included in the PSIP, provision is made in the Development Budget for the required counterpart
funding and in the revenue budget for the corresponding recurring expenditures. In order to do
this, EP&D and MOF require realistic and timely estimates of needs from the line ministries.
To this end, more accurate methods of estimating required recurrent expenditures have been
designed under the IDA-financed Agricultural Services Project, as well as an improved
budgetary planning procedure. However, the utility of these improvements at the line ministry
level will be diminished unless the Ministry of Finance and EP&D are able and willing to
respond to them.
4.18      Fertilizer subsidy reduction. Under SAL II, the Government of Malawi in 1983
committed itself to phase out the fertilizer subsidy completely by the 1988/89 season.. The
fertilizer subsidy removal program was, however, suspended in 1987, following a sharp rise
in fertilizer costs resulting from the closure of transport routes through Mozambique and a
decline in the marketed volume of maize production. Consequently, the rate of economic
subsidy reached a level of 30% in 1989/90. With the increasing use of fertilize by the
smallholders, the total amount of subvention was rising and amounted to MX 27.2 million or
about 2% of total Government expenditures that year. The subsidy was not only intended to
encourage maize producers to use fertilizer, but also to protect consumers from the price
effects of maize shortages. ASAC called for a resumption of the subsidy removal program,
with a reduction in the maximum rate of economic subsidy to 30% in 1990/91, 25% in 1991/92
and 20% in 1992/93. It was also agreed that the total value of these subsidies would not
exceed 2.0% of total Government expenditures in 1990/91, 1.6% in 1991/92 and 1.3% in
1992/93. Government is also committed, under an agreement with the EEC, to the elimination
13



of all ferdlizer subsidies by the end of the 1995/96 cropping season. The aim of official policy
is to proceed to that stage without risking a fall in maize production and detrioration of
household food security. Underlying this approach are two expectations: that the high external
transport costs would decline once the Northern Transport Corridoi Project was completed and
the Nacala Line through Mozambique became fully operational and that the introduction of high
yielding flint maize varieties would improve fertilizer yield response rates and reduce
production costs.
4.19      By and large, the Government has fulfilled its commitments on fertilizer subsidies.
The total amount of subvention was reduced to 1.39% of total Government expenditure in
1992/93. At the sarne time, the subsidy was eliminated on sulphate of ammonia (SA) and
calcium ammonium nitrate (CAN) and reduced to 15.3% for the compound 23:21+0+4S,
15.5 % for urea and 17 % for diammonium phosphate (DAP), so that in no case does it exceed
20% (see Annex 2, Table 11). These changes are also in line with the policy goal that high
analysis fertilizers would receive relatively higher subsidies, in view of the proportionately
lower transport costs per unit of plant nutrient. SFFRFM fertilizer sales for the 1988/89-
1992/93 seasons are given in Annex 2, Table 12. While total smallholder fertilizer sales have
increased since 1988/89, low analysis SA and CAN sales stabiized at around 3,000 tons and
30,000 tons per year respectively. By contrast, in line with Government policy, sales of high
analysis Urea and DAP increased significantly over the same period, from 24,000 tons and
8,000 tons in 1988/89, to about 46,000 tons and 26,000 tons respectively.
5. Implementation: Agricultural Sector Reforms
Cash Crop Allocation
5.1       The most notable accomplishment under ASAC, the one that introduced authentic
structural change into Malawi's agricultural sector, was allowing smallholder farmers to grow
burley tobacco. Two actions in this regard were initiated under ASAC. First, the granting of
burley production quotas to smallholders, and second, allowing smallholder clubs to sell their
product directly on the auction floors, rather than through ADMARC. Prior to ASAC, burley
production was only legal in the estate subsector (Annex 2, Table 1). The objective of this
element was to allow smallholders access to a broader means of increasing their incomes, in
order to reduce poverty and, simultaneously, provide farmers with a means of financing the
intensification of their maize production. The latter would then contribute to improved food
security and an increased ability to diversify agricultural production through releasing land from
maize cultivation. For the last twenty years, burley tobacco has been the most profitable crop
grown in Malawi. In 1990 prices, the production of 1,350 kg of burley per ha was estimated
to result in a gross margin of MK 4,595 per ha (or approximately MK 3.65 per day for the
1,260 days of labor invested). By comparison, the production of 3,600 kg of hybrid maize was
expected to yield a gross margin of MK 422 per ha (or a return of MK 2.59 per day for 163
days of labor)."
USAID, 'Mid-term Evaluation of the Agricultral Sector Aisnce Progm (ASAP), March 31, 1993.
14



5.2        The smaUlholder burley program is now in its third year.  The aggregate
smalUholder production quota in the first two years was not completely filled due to a
combination of factors, including initial lack of demand (knowledge) among small farmers and
MOA's program administration. Thus, in 1990/91 and in 1991/92, actual production was about
70% of the quota. However, in 1992/93, when some 27,400 smallholders were legally allowed
to grow burley, the quota of 7,000 tons was fully met (Annex 2, Table 2). About 12.5% of
the smallholder burley licensees were female. As indicated in Annex 2, Table 3, smallholders
with burley quotas were members of 1,125 clubs spread all over Malawi but in particular in
the central (46%) and southern (40%) regions.
5.3        From the outset, smallholders have demonstrated their ability to produce a quality
product. Burley which ADMARC sold on behalf of smallholders in 1990/91 fetched an
average price of MK 7.29 per kg, compared with a national average auction floor price of
MK 6.87 per kg. In 1991/92, the first year smallholder clubs were allowed to market directly
on the auction floor, they received an average price of MK 6.19 per kg compared with a
national average of MK 6.52 per kg. In 1992/3 it is estimated that 83% of smalholder
produced burley was marketed directly through the auction floors (Annex 2, Table 5). The
average price paid for this produce was MK 5.28/kg, while the national average was MK 4.89.
5.4       Other donor support for the smalUholder burley program comes primarily under
the USAID's Agricultural Sector Assistance Program (ASAP). ASAP has continued the
structural adjustment of ASAC, substantially broadening the reform program with conditionality
requiring specific Government actions dealing with improved targeting of smallholder burley
quotas, management of production, marketing of burley, and efficiency in the delivery of
inputs.
5.5       Evaluation. The smalUholder burley program has been a success. Smallholders
have demonstrated their ability to produce high quality tobacco at low cost. The net
incremental income accruing the smallholder subsector as a result has been estimated at MX
3.5; MK 8.0 and MK 9.3 in each of the relevant years." Moreover, although there has been
a fall in world market prices for the crop, it has been estimated that world demand will rise
by about 2 % per annum in the long-term and that Malawi can be expected to expand its share
of the market to around 10% from its current 9.2%, without affecting world market prices
(Annex 2, Table 6). Further expansion of smallholder burley production is also possible
through a re-evaluation of the distribution of quotas. The quantities currently produced by
smallholders are a fraction of those produced by estates. For example, in 1992/3 the aggregate
smallholder quota was only 5.8% of the total national quota and only 1.6% of smallholder
farmers had access to a quota. However, there are a number of issues facing the Government
and donors related to managing the growth of smallholder production. Paramount among these
are the following:
USAID ASAP evaluation reports. Tnhse estimates assume that burley tobacco has replaced hybrid maize
production.
15



(a)    Quota allocations and management. Most industry experts consider the
current quota allocation system to have been out of control even prior to
the introduction of smallholder production. So far, the demand for
additional quota by smallholders has been met by increased world demand
and Malawi's increasing share of the world market. However, as noted
above, it has been estimated that Malawi cannot expand it production of
burley beyond 10% of the world market without lowering world prices.
If the quota system of controlling burley production is continued, demand
by smalUholders for additional quota will, in the future, have to be met at
the expense of the estate sector. However, given the success of the
smallholder burley program, the current quota system can be
characterized as not only inequitable, but also inefficient, since it
excludes many potentially very efficient producers. As a result, the
Government has embarked on a study of the costs and benefits of various
means of controlling national production levels, including making quota
allocations tradable, replacing quotas with an export tax and totally
liberalizing burley production. The outcome of this study, in terms of
policy changes related to burley tobacco, will have important implications
in terms of future levels of smallholder burley production.
(b)    MOA management. Under ASAP, smallholder burley growers have
been assisted in producing and marketing burley tobacco by the Ministry
of Agriculture's extension services. MOA management being already
thin, the question now is how well Ministry officials and the extension
staff can manage the anticipated growth of the smallholder burley
production. Adding new staff is not likely as long as current fiscal
constraints remain. However, the separation MOA credit and extension
functions (currently being implemented) will reduce the heavy work-load
of extension agents. In addition, continued support of extension services
under USAID's ASAP will help to improve and standardize burley
registrations, allocations and compliance monitoring. Nonetheless, the
impact of smallholder demand to participate in the burley program on the
capacity of the extension services and credit supplies should be closely
monitored.
(c)    Targeting smallholders. There were no data available to prove that at
least 75 % of licensed smallholder burley producers had less than 1 ha -
the intention under ASAC. A new method of data collection on holding
sizes and area cultivated with burley amongst registered growers is being
instituted by MOA with support from USAID. This data system should
greatly facilitate the monitoring process. However, targeting would be
administratively less costly and realistic if it merely relied on giving
particular emphasis to those areas, like Blantyre ADD, in which very
small land holdings are common.
16



Output Prices
5.6       One of the principal ASAC actions, along with allowing smallholders to grow
burley tobacco, was to ensure that ADMARC's tobacco buying plices were brought into line
with their border equivalents by implementing a two-payment price system.  ASAC
conditionality required a first price of not less than 45 % of a rolling 3-year average of auction
floor prices to be paid on delivery at ADMARC markets, with a second payment at the end of
the season (referred to as a bonus payment") of at least 65% of ADMARC's net profits from
sales of tobacco. In the past, ADMARC purchased tobacco (not burley, but oriental, sun-air
cured and dark-fired) from smallholders at fixed prices which were rarely more that 30% of
the price ADMARC received in selling these tobaccos on the auction floor.
5.7        The outcome of the ASAC strategy with respect to producer prices for tobacco
has been the following:
(a)    The two payment system has ensured that a larger proportion of the
profits from growing and selling all types of tobacco is returned to
smallholder producers. As a result of this system, real ADMARC
producer prices for tobacco have remained constant or have increased
since 1990. In addition, the Government initiated a freer marketing
system for burley tobacco, supported by the USAID funded ASAP. This
involved enabling smallholder clubs to market burley directly on the
auction floor). As a result of these two processes, rough estimates
indicate that total gross revenue going to smallholder burley producers in
1992/93 was around MK 21.0 million. This implies a gross return to
individual farmers of about MK 700 to MK 750 for an average quota of
240 kg (Annex 2, Table 8). A rural minimum wage in the same year
amounted to about MK 500.
(b)    However, two issues regarding pricing remain to be addressed. One is
that, despite falling world tobacco prices, ADMARC has felt unable to
lower its producer prices for tobacco. Thus, currently smallholders may
be being sent inaccurate signals concerning the shifts in demand for
tobacco. Secondly, smallholder producers of other types of tobacco -
namely Oriental, dark-fired and sun-air cured - are still not permitted to
market their produce directly to the auction floors. Thus ADMARC
prices are the only ones to which they have access.
5.8       Evaluation. The establishment and implementation of the two payment system
for tobacco producers has been improving, despite initial miscalculations and misgivings by
ADMARC and farmers concerning the second payment. A major issue for smallholder
growers marketing through ADMARC has been with the second payment - initially the lack
of a second payment, now the size and lateness of the payment itself. ADMARC's concern
regarding the initial payment (not less than 45% of a rolling three year average) is that they
will be forced to absorb heavy losses if prices fall in successive years. This concern could be
17



alleviated by the liberalization of all smallholder tobacco markets, with ADMARC operating
in competition with other buyers and direct sales to the auction floor. If ADMARC's
monopoly on tobacco markets was eliminated, and competitive tobacco marketing developed,
the issue of ADMARC pricing would become less important. Nevertheless, until smallholder
tobacco markets are liberalized, the two-payment pricing system will require additional analysis
and modifications will need to be made in a number of areas. Some of these include:
(a)    Timely issue of the second or bonus' payment (not later than October
31st) in order to allow small farmers to begin their nursery plantings for
the next year's crop. This is particularly important for tobacco producers
who do not have direct access to the auction floors - for example non-
burley tobacco producers and remote burley farmers.
(b)    Improvements in the current burley quota system with a view to
enhancing the equity and efficiency of quantitative controls on national
production; (an evaluation of the costs and benefits of various ways of
controlling burley tobacco production is currently being undertaken by
Government).
(c)    The liberalization of non-burley smallholder tobacco marketing, in order
to increase the efficiency of production and marketing and to allow for
increased smallholder incomes where possible.
5.9       Another ASAC conditionality under the output prices strategy included 'continuing
annual price review and submitting the recommendations of the review to the Bank for
comments at least 21 days before the announcement of revised prices'. This appears to have
been an administrative matter and according to the MOA and World Bank staff, is being done.
However, regarding pricing policy itself, MOA continues to set minimum floor prices for range
of crops, the number of which was reduced in 1991/92 however. Setting minimum prices will
become less justifiable as controls on commodity marketing are removed and private taders
take over more and more of the market. The official policy of MOA is "progressive
decontrol". Prices for maize will probably continue to be set for some time to come however,
given this crops' vital role in food security. Maize producer prices are determined primarily
with the objective of stimulating production as part of Malawi's food security efforts and to
equate supply and demand. However, it was intended that producer prices for other crops
should be determined on the basis of export parity principles. This has not been the case. Real
smallholder producer prices for selected crops during the period 1987/88-1991/92, along with
the nominal protection coefficients they imply in 1987/8 and 1991/2, are given below:
18



Real Smallholder Producer Prices and Nominal Protection Coefficients for Selected Years
iS.t- for<' ' *:'"''  .       ** '  . '''. .'"'. ..  :.''..' (1980 ....  '.
' mWi^'¢4'~~~~~~.'S::'.':'''.'...   ..................'':tS."..' ......   .  :.-':
.~~~~~~~~~.    ..  s:.............  ...          .....  .sss.....    ,    
. s ~,11    .s s    -                    -- -- .-... .      -...... .....
:=: f x c : . : > ; (O,AS ,0,:: :~~.  j.  , ,, ,: .,....     ..  ,.  '.......     .   '"S.. :..S  
'PCIOrC t2 S  :       . ."8   ' ' '   ''
Coto (rade ).97                      Q0l1.06*V.3
II:C for,cuu(.5)07
Tobacco(NUDE y  .   3.8         .4.0581                     52-.30       4827.
NPC Xo  tobac             (08          (-.4-E
Source: World Bank Agricullural Sector lMemorandum (forthcoming).
5.10        The nominal protection coefficients above show that smallholder producer prices
for rice, groundnuts and cotton were further from their export parity levels in 1991/2 than they
were in 1987/8, and that although the situation has improved with respect to tobacco, producer
prices are still some way from export parity levels. Thus, although price reviews have been
sent annually to the Bank for comment, and comments have been provided to the Government
in response, it is not clear that this process has had an impact on the economic efficiency of
the official pricing regime or on improving the smaUlholder incentive framework.
5.11        Implementation of the 20%  premium  maize price, called the 'depot delivered
price", for lots of at least one metric ton has helped private traders to generate additional
working capital. According to ADMARC, MOA and other donors, private traders are actively
taking advantage of the depot delivery price. The anticipated impact of this price policy on
increased private trading, improved efficiency and better market coverage for the smallholder
(especially in isolated areas) needs further investigation however. It is possible that it is
creating a false dependency on ADMARC in the development of private markets, which could
undermine the sustainability of such development in the longer-term. For example, one recent
analysis of private agricultural produce founds found that, in the Central Region, many private
traders were solely engaged in buying maize from farmers and selling at ADMARC depot
markets. Thus, should ADMARC discontinue the premium pricing policy it is likely that these
firms would go out of business. This issue should be considered in the monitoring and
evaluation of policy and policy reforms. A more effective and efficient way of encouraging
the development of private sector agricultural markets would be to remove the restrictions
currently in place on private traders' participation in groundnut and export markets (see below).
19



Output Marketing and Input Distribution
5.12       Regarding output marketing and input distribution, the strategy under ASAC was
to expand private sector participation in the marketing of smallhuider crops and agricultural
inputs, especially fertilizers. At the same time, the strategy was intended to enable ADMARC
to narrow its participation in these markets and increasingly focus on price stabilization and the
management of the country's strategic grain reserve. Expanding the role of the private sector
continues to be problematic in Malawi. Aside from the 20%  wholesale maize price premium,
ASAC called for a differentiation of fertilizer prices to provide for trading margins to stimulate
frrmer groups and their agents to become retailers, and included a provision allowing private
sector participation in cotton seed marketing. The outcome of the ASAC strategy with respect
to expanded participation of the private sector in output marketing and input distribution has
been mixed:
(a)    The number of private traders in the agricultural sector has been
expanding since liberalization in 1987. In 1990/91, ADMARC reported
605 registered traders, although several sources note that private trader
registrations do not reflect the total number of traders due to the fact that
many other private traders operate without a license. In addition,
research has demonstrated the levels of turnover and investment have also
increased. To further the development of this sector, the Government
intends to revoke regulations requiring private traders to register and
restricting their operating hours and locations will be abolished. Thus,
considerable progress has been made in the development of private sector
agricultural produce markets, before and during the ASAC period.
Nevertheless, further development is possible. For example, legislation
contained in Acts other than that specifically related to the agricultural
produce marketing continues to inhibit private sector development (e.g.
quantitative restrictions on exports, bans on buying/exporting
groundnuts). In addition, research has demonstrated that three other
critical constraints experienced by private agricultural produce traders and
processors are access to foreign exchange, credit facilities and
transportation services.
(b)    Liberalization of fertilizer marketing remained a major unresolved issue
at the closing of the credit. Government only formally approved and
announced its fertilizer market liberalization policies in May 1993. While
the finalization and approval of the policy paper dealing with private
sector participation in smallholder fertilizer markets represents a major
step forward, its eventual impact will depend on Government's
implementation performance and the response of the private sector.
Efforts to differentiate ADMARC fertilizer prices, to provide a trading
margin for retailers, were not implemented under ASAC pending
enactment of Government's fertilizer liberaizaion policy. However,
20



given the concerns about the maize depot premium prime, the wisdom of
embarking on such a policy should be reassessed.
(c)    The study called for under ASAC  to identify ways to facilitate
participation by the private sector in seed cotton marketing was not
carried out. The reason for this was that the Government went ahead and
legalized private trading in seed cotton. To date, there has been no
noticeable impact on the industry (in terms of production or pricing)
which is still recovering from the severe drought in 1991/92. The sub-
optimal location and the monopsonistic position of the ginneries and the
textile mill continue to dominate the cotton industry. It remains to be
seen whether increased private trading in seed cotton will affect prices
offered to growers given this monopolistic processing sector.
5.13      Evaluation. This part of ASAC's strategy did not include sufficient policy
reforms to have measurable impact on efficiency through the expansion of the private sector.
While there was a focus in the design of ASAC on encouraging private sector market
participation through pricing incentives, the policy framework that was in place prior to and
during the credit was not conducive to encouraging such participation, particularly with respect
to agricultural input marketing. In addition, a number of policy reversals took place during the
ASAC period with respect to the liberalization of agricultural output markets. The inability of
Bank supervision missions to collaborate with Government in finding other means to resolve
the problems addressed by these reversals is disappointing. A more comprehensive and diverse
effort to establish the requisite environment is still needed before private trading in the
agricultural sector is likely to become an integral and dynamic part of Malawi's solutions to
the alleviation of poverty and sustained economic growth. Continued Government intervention
in and tight regulation of markets, and a lack of infrastructure and credit are among the factors
that continue to constrain the growth of private agricultural trading in Malawi.
Rationalization of ADMARC Funding and Functions
5.14      The principal ASAC conditionalities regarding ADMARC's operations were
continuing the divestiture program, and implementing a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
with Government under which Government assumes financing of ADMARC's functions related
to development and food security. In addition, Government was required to set prices of crops
handled by ADMARC so that individual crop accounts at least break even on average over a
three year period. ADMARC was also required to implement a commission agent system to
replace its financially inviable market centers. The outcome of the ASAC strategy with respect
to ADMARC is still uncertain. Some actions were taken, others were apparently taken
halfway, while others have been delayed over long periods of time.
(a)    In the case of the divesture program, ADMARC has stayed on course.
USAI?D assisted ADMARC in the design and implementation of a
divestiture program. At one time, ADMARC's operations included
21



farms, sugar estates, tea and macadamia estates, banks, rice and oil
processing, flour milling, fishing, meat processing, ferilizer processing,
tea processing, cloth manufacturing, cotton ginning, freight forwarding
and others. Beginning in 1986, urged by the Bank and with USAID
technical assistance, ADMARC divested itslf of many of these holdings.
Those that could not be disposed of due to lack of effective demand were
placed in a holding company with the intention that restructuring and
divestiture would continue from there (Annex 2, Table 10).
(b)    The  MOU  with  Government specifically  details ADMARC's
developmental role in trading smallholder commodities as the "buyer and
seller of last resorW for specified commodities on behalf of Government.
It was envisaged under ASAC that ADMARC would, over time,
withdraw from commercial trading and focus solely on implementing
Government food security policy with respect to smallholder marketing
and pricing. In return, Government would reimburse ADMARC for
losses incurred in undertaking this developmental role.  Thus, as
Government's agent ADMARC would manage the price band for maize,
maintain the strategic grain reserve, ensure that producer prices for
scheduled smallholder crops remain above the minimum prices set by
Government, distribute SFlFRFM's ferdlizer at target ceiling prices,
ensure smaUlholder access to output markets throughout the country, and
guarantee that production/consumption policies are implemented by
buying and/or selling at other than stipulated prices when requested by
Government (e.g., to ensure seed stock availability). ADMARC would
have to fulfil various efficiency targets in undertaking these roles in order
to be eligible for reimbursement of its losses.
(c)    Though the MOU was only signed in December 1993; its implementation
began before then. In 1990/91, Government reimbursed ADMARC MK
15.0 million for its losses in carrying out development and food security
programs. In 1992/93, though Government had reportedly budgeted MK
20.0 million for this purpose, it made no transfers to ADMARC, due in
large part to revenue generated from the handling of commercial/drought
relief maize (MK 20.6 million)".
(d)    In the 1991/92 crop year, ADMARC reported a total net trading account
loss of MK 31.0 million which was primarily caused by the severe
drought and resulting low volumes of produce, competition from private
traders (especially in maize), two currency devaluations, fuel cost
increases, rising interest rates and mandated salary adjustments.
Specifically, the cotton account lost MK 3.0 million. The groundnut
account managed a profit of MK 264,000 despite a drop in production.
N  Soa: ADMARC Anul Roport 1991/92.
22



No doubt the ban on private sector groundnut purchases and exports
contributed to the profitability of this account during the drought year.
ADMARC claimed a MK 2.0 million subsidy reimbursement on its
tobacco account and anticipates a similar cLim for MK 31 million in
1992/93, despite a MK 149,000 profit reported on its burley sales. A
profit was reported on the maize account of MK 7.0 million as a result
of handling commercial drought relief maize and the sale of 13,000 tons
of maize to Action Aid, to be given away to farmers as seed. The rice
and input sales accounts also reported losses in 1991/92. Sufficient time
has not elapsed to evaluate the conditionality that ADMARC's accounts
at least break even on average over a period of three years. Based on the
1991/92 figures and ADMARC's own projections for 1992/93, however,
the picture is not optimistic.
(e)    ADMARC attempted to implement a commission agent system for
markets that are not financially viable, but despite 'attractive' offers to
sell or rent warehouses they found little interest among private traders,
and the program was discontinued. ADMARC currently operates 40
depot delivery markets (5 more than the number foreseen at appraisal)
and over 1,000 seasonal markets. While some ADMARC markets were
closed in 1987/88, others were opened and some of the closed ones were
subsequently re-opened. It is estimated that the net effect of these
changes has been a reduction in the total number of markets by about
125.
5.15      Evaluation. ADMARC and Treasury should be given credit for the development
of the draft MOU agreement. Nonetheless, this area of the ASAC adjustment program has
been prolonged and delayed beyond the Bank operation due to difficult and lengthy
negotiations. There appear to have been two major causes in this delay, namely the cost to
Government of ADMARC's interventions on its behalf and ADMARC's lack of confidence that
it would indeed be reimbursed in full for the losses it incurred. These problems and concerns
should have been aired and addressed during preparation or appraisal of the operation, or
failing that, during supervision missions. As a result of the delays, one of the major ASAC
components has not yet resulted in structural change or measurable impact. This is a good
example of the problem inherent in linking a major, but slow moving, policy adjustment with
a fast disbursing credit. The divestiture program is continuing with the assistance of USAID.
However, the fact that ADMARC recently agreed to purchase a private ginnery, not as a
company holding, but as an "asset" to circumvent its own divestiture policy, implies that the
continued divestiture process requires additional monitoring and evaluation.
23



Fertilizer Procurement and Financing
5.16       The initial ASAC actions were to assist Government in the preparation of a 5-year
projection of fertilizer requirements as well as operational guidelies for the management of
the buffer stock established with EEC support. In addition, Government was to continue to
reduce subsidies (addressed above in para. 4.18-4.20) and take actions to facilitate private
sector participation within the system (subject to evaluation of food security policies). The
outcomes of the ASAC strategy with respect to fertilizer procurement and financing have been
the following:
(a)    The preparation of the rolling 5 year fertilizer requirement projection was
completed and incorporated into the EEC fertlizer support project along
with measures to improve the overall financial and managerial efficiency
of SFFRFM.
(b)    In addition, the EEC's fertilizer project, closely associated with ASAC,
required Government to take additional measures including establishing
a code of practice for drawing on buffer stocks, settling within three
months of billing outstanding accounts owed to SFFRFM, ensuring that
buffer stocks would not be reduced below the equivalent of 90,000 tons
and ensuring submission of timely financial reports by the Fund's
management.
(c)    It was only in May 1993 that Government finalized and publicly
announced its policy to open up smallholder fertilizer markets to the
private sector. Thus is too early to assess the impact of this reform.
5.17       Evaluation. Prior to the establishment of the SFFRFM, ADMARC procured and
distributed all smallholder fertilizers. Under the present arrangement, the SF;RFM supplies
ADMARC with fertilizers on a consignment basis with title of the commodity remaining with
the SFFRFM until payment is received by ADMARC, at which time it transfers to the
smalUholder farmer who has purchased the fertilizer. As such, ADMARC simply acts as a
distribution agent for the SFFRFM, for which it receives remuneration to cover storage,
transport and marketing costs. Before the start of each fertilizer marketing season, ADMARC,
MOA and the SFFRFM collectively prepare a fertilizer distribution plan for that season, based
on the smallholder demands established by the MOA. The fact that, in the last six years, there
have been stocks of fertilizer in some ADMARC markets remaining at the end of the crop
cycle, has lead some observers to conclude that supplies are more than adequate to meet
effective demand (Annex 2, Table 12). However, caution should be taken in using year end
stocks to assess the relationship between supply and effective demand. The geographical
distribution of ADMARC's supplies are calculated at the beginning of the season according to
MOA estimates of needs in different areas. This administrative process has lead to local
imbalances of supply and demand, with stocks being drawn down early in the season in some
areas and remaining at the end of the season in others. This makes it impossible to determine
whether national supply is meeting aggregate effective demand. In addition, it is likely that the
24



spatial distribution of available supplies is inefficient and that demand constraints prevent
poorer smallholders from using fertilizer.
5.18       Ferdlizer usage in Malawi is still amongst the lowest ia Africa. However, sales
to smalUholders have continued to increase despite the relatively high and increasing costs -
which suggests a supply constraint. In the last six years, SFFRFM fertlizer imports have
increased from 77,500 tons to 136,251 tons, a 12.5 % average annual increase (Annex 2, Table
13). Smallholder demand for fertilizer is expected to reach 247,000 tons by 1997/98 (Annex
2, Table 14). Given the land constraint in Malawi's smalUholder subsector, and declining soil
fertility, it is essential that both supply side and demand constraints on smalUholders' use of
fertilizers are addressed. Further increases in the quantity of fertilizer utilized in Malawi will
be affected by increasing cash incomes (especially from burley tobacco and hybrid maize
production and the complete liberalization of other produce markets); expanded access to credit;
decreasing ferdlizer costs following the rehabilitation of the rail route from Nacala and the
development of competition in the ferdlizer market. In addition, in order to increase demand
it will be necessary to raise the efficiency of smallholder fertilizer utilization. It is expected
ta this problem will be addressed through the strengthening of the extension service as
envisaged under the recently launched Agricultural Services Project. SFFRFM will continue
to have an important role in importing fertilizer in the immediate future, although an increased
commercialization of its operations in a liberalized market is to be expected. In sum, while
there was some increase in the efficiency of fertilizer procurement and supply under ASAC,
and levels of procurement were enhanced, the strongest part of this component was only
implemented in 1993 - namely the liberalization of fertilizer markets. It is therefore too early
to assess the impact of this part of ASAC, but it appears that supply, marketing and demand
constraints continue to restrict smallholders' use of fertilizers.
High Yielding Flint Maize
5.19       The progress in developing hybrid maize varieties acceptable to farmers has
exceeded expectations. Two hard endosperm (or flint) high yielding maize varieties (MH17
and MH18) were developed by MOA and released in 1990/1. In addition, a third has now
been developed (MHl9). Partly as a result of the development and release of MH17 and
MH18, hybrid maize has substituted for local maize in production since 1990/1. Mioreover,
seed demand for flint hybrid maize varieties from smallholders is reputed to be high, and seed
production companies in Malawi have started to respond positively to meet increased demand
for hybrid seed. Under the on-going 5-year (1991/92-1995/96) hybrid maize program, research
will continue to focus mainly on dialled crosses in the selected lines with the aim of developing
flint single-cross hybrids, evaluating them in yield tests across the country and advancing the
best single-crosses into three-way cross hybrids. However, smallholder access to improved
seeds may be constrained and this issue should be addressed in order that the benefits of the
development of flint varieties under ASAC can be fully exploited. It is thought that, as yet,
supplies of MH17 and MH18 do not meet demand. Government liberalized the production,
marketing and pricing of hybrid seed in 1993 to address this problem, but the continued
subsidization of seeds sold through ADMARC is inhibiting private sector entry into this market.
25



Land Allocation and Use
5.20       Land Transfers. The transfer of customary lands into the estate sector has been
a serious concern in Malawi since Independence. Land available to smallholder households,
especially in the Southern and Central regions of Malawi, is decreasing as high population
growth rates (currently about 3.4% per annum) and transfers of land to the estate sector
continue. Average smallholder farm sizes are consequently decreasing, seriously affecting the
economic welfare of smallholder families. The ASAC policy agenda attempted to address this
issue through a conditionality that required Government to amend the Land Act to ban further
transfers of customary land to the estate sector. Government did amend the Land Act, banning
further transfers, but did so with exemption clauses that effectively minimized any positive
impact. Moreover, the expectation that administrative and legal actions would be suffiient to
address the causes for such transfers was unrealistic. The main reason smallhoders converted
their customary tenure to leasehold was because, until 1990/1, it was legally not possible to
obtain a license to grow burley tobacco unless one had leasehold or freehold land tenure.
Thus, the provision that smallholders themselves can now grow and market burley tobacco has
probably done more to slow down the transfer process than the amendment banning transfers.
5.21       The Efficiency of Estate Land Utilization. Under ASAC, a private estate
extension service. The purpose of the latter, along with conditionality of increasing estates'
rents, was to improve land use efficiency and productivity in the estate subsector. In 1990, the
Estate Extension Services Trust (EEST) was established, with ODA assistance, as an
autonomous trust under the Tobacco Association of Malawi. Though small (10 field agents),
it has initiated an extension program focused on smaller estates. While lease rents were
increased from MK 10 per ha to MK 30 during the operation, they are still thought to be too
low to have any noticeable impact on estate land use. It has been estimated that about 16% of
cultivatable land in the estate subsector is not used. Moreover, although under-utilization is
probably influenced by the low costs of establishing an estate and the low annual lease rents,
inadequate access to capital appears to be the main constraint on more extensive utilization.
The provision under ASAC to collect estate lease rents from the tobacco auction has been
successful in improving revenue collection from both current and past accounts.
5.22       Evaluation.  The attempt to prevent the further transfer of land from the
customary to the leasehold sector was one of the least successful components of ASAC.
Although meeting the general conditionality by passing the amendment to the Land Act,
Government did so in a manner that essentially defeated its purpose. The exemption for those
who could establish and substantiate a prior use for customary land (and the lack of definition
of 'customary land rights"), ensured that anyone with some resources could still establish an
estate. Reportedly, village leaders often agree to substantiate an individual's request, given the
proper connections and incentives. In addition to the poor initial design, one reason for the
poor performance of this component was the weak position of the institution charged with
monitoring and enforcement of the land transfers. The Commissioner of Lands submitted a
reorganization plan and request for additional staffing to Government over two years ago and
still has not received a reply. Although the mission was advised by Govenment that the plan
had been approved in principle, operating funds to implement the reorganization, let alone the
26



hiring of additional staff, are still not available. Given these conditions and the lack of an
institution building component, the initial ASAC concept seems not to have been sufficiently
well thought out.
5.23      The current rate of transfer of customary lands to the estate sector is not known.
How much customary land remains is also unknown. The Commissioner of Iands reported
that the number of requests and pending applications had not decreased with the incepton of
the ban. Underlying the poor performance of this component is also the sensitive polical issue
ofjust how much regulaton and oversight there should be of the estate sector by Governmet.
More importantly however, it appears that a rather crude administrative insument was
designed to address an incentive system created by Govermment's policy to grant the estae
subsector a monopoly on the rights to grow burley tobacco. Given the strong financial
incentives to produce this crop, a more effective means of addressing the problem would have
been to increase smallholder burley tobacco production quota allocations.
5.24       Government also agreed to maintain estate lease rents at the 1985 level in real
terms using the GDP deflator, and has subsequently increased rents over the last three years.
Currently lease rents are MK 30.00 per ha. An additional 30% to 35% increase (to MR 40
kwacha per ha) is in order in 1993/94 to maintain the rates at 1985 value in real terms.
Discussions with Govcrnment regarding a 1993/94 increase in lease rents are currdy
underway. However, this element of the program was also poorly designed. There appears
to be no rationale for choosing the 1985 rental rate as the one to be maintained. It would be
desirable to develop a simple, differentiated rental system, that more closely links the level of
rent with the opportunity costs of the land. However, currently the data required to estimate
such differentiated rents is not available. Moreover, study to establish a basis to differentiate
estate land quality and introduce differentiated land rents according to land quality, requested
under ASAC, was not implemented and is probably not a viable option at this point in time
given the institutional weaknesses described above.
5.25      It is too early to evaluate the impact of the Estate Extension Service Trust on the
productivity of small estates. The small size of the service and the large and possibly growing
number of small estates make their task difficult. Their current strategy is to focus on 60 farms
as "models", stressing diversification within the tobacco rotation. ODA is currently assessing
the possibility of funding a second phase in the development of the EEST, which will involve
the restructuring of the institution and its services. The newer small estates continue to be one
of the primary entry points for non-quota tobacco as they reportedly have difficulty filling their
own quotas without purchases. If their productivity does not improve, competition from the
smallholder burley growers could begin to edge them out of the market. A study to establish
base line data of the estate sector is needed.
Woodlots
5.26       Under ASAC it was also envisaged that the inspectorate staff of the Department
of Lands would be strengthened to enforce the establishment of woodlots, covering at least 10%
27



of the area owned/leased, by estates, except in cases where estates are able to obtain fuelwood
from forest plantations and private sources. This action never materialized. EstaU  still
continue to acquire wood from indigenous plantations and, in a few cases they apply to the
Forestry Department of the Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resurces (MFNR) to procure
fuelwood. Almost no tobacco estates are self-sufficient in wood products. This, together with
an absence of commercial forestry, is contributing to the depletion of the natural (miombo)
forests. The situation is particularly grave in Mangochi (Namwera area) where large tobacco
growing estates are located. However, attempting to force estates to cultivate their own tree
reserves, in a context of highly controlled (and probably suppressed) wood prices, is another
example of attempting to address a market failure with administrative means. It is because the
incentives to plant tress are thus reduced that the efforts to encourage estates to plant woodlots
have failed. A more effective, efficient and sustainable means of addressing this problem
would be the liberalization of fuelwood prices.
Food Security
5.27       With one of its primary objectives being to enhance food security, the ASAC
included a component to strengthen the Government's capacity to monitor the impact of the
adjustment program on the vulnerable and resource-poor group. In addition, the Government
committed itself to: (a) ensuring that at least 50% of fertilizers supplied by SFFRFM would
be packaged in bags of not more than 25 kg; (b) setting fertilizer prices to provide a higher rate
of subsidy on high rather than on low analysis fertilizers; (c) locating the smallholder burley
production schemes in areas where at least 75 % of landholdings are less than 1.0 ha; and
(d) initiating implementation of the UNDP-funded project to test various ways of targeting
agricultural credit and fertilizer subsidies to the food deficient households. Finally, to enhance
food security at the national level, the Government agreed to implement a plan to improve
operational guidelines for the management of the Strategic Grain Reserve (SGR).
5.28       The outcome of the fertilizer subsidy reduction policies and targeting burley
production quotas have been addressed above. With respect to the other activities listed above,
performance relative to the above objectives has been the following:
(a)    SFFRFM, in an attempt to better meet the requirements of the poorest
smallholders in procuring ferdlizer, initiated a pilot scheme for
distributing fertilizers packaged in bags of up to 25 kg. Several options
were tried, including bags of 10, 15 and 25 kg. Demand for 25 kg bags
was indeed high and distribution was reported to be successful. On the
contrary, demand for smaller bags was negligible, evidenced by the fact
that last year almost 90,000, 10 kg bags remained unsold. This probably
reflects the income constraint faced by smaller farmers. Furthermore, the
cost of unbagging and rebagging proved prohibitive, and therefore
SFFRFM has decided to discontinue the distribution of 10 and 15 kg
bags.
28



(b)    The UNDP-funded targeting project was initiated in November 1990,
with the objective of assisting resource-poor households to become
regular credit clients in order to improve their food security situation.
The project could not deliver its designated ot.puts because of a number
of obstacles encountered during implementation, namely:
- external factors, such as the 1992 drought which affected two of the
pilot areas in Liwonde agricultural development division (ADD);
-  the socio-economic survey supposed to produce essential data for
targeting project activities was never completed;
- poor utilization of project financial resources, which led to a project
implementation rate of 40%;
-  institutional arrangements within the Ministry of Agriculture that led
to deficiencies in management of the project.
5.29      As a result of the above, a World Bank consultant recommended termination of
the project and activities stopped in January 1993. Taking this experience into account, and
considering the Smallholder Agricultural Credit Administration's good past performance and
potential in dealing with short-term credit operations for smallholders, it is possible a broader
program for production credit should have been included under ASAC to support plans for
increasing smallholder production for both burley tobacco and fertilized hybrid maize. As
SACA has proved to be a successful institution, both in terms of financing a large number of
smallholders (more than 390,000 members in 1993) and in recovering loans (exceeding a rate
of 90% up to 1991), it would not have appeared risky to undertake an expansion of production
credit on these lines.
5.30      As stated in the Government's Food Security and Nutrition Policy Statement,
national food security in Malawi has traditionally been viewed in terms of the country's ability
to produce, secure and maintain adequate levels of food to meet commercial demands
throughout the year. Under ASAC, support was given to the Government plan to improve the
operational guidelines for managing the Strategic Grain Reserve (SGR), including specific
criteria for selling to and buying from the SGR, and for determining the optimum stock size.
5.31      In terms of emergency stocks, the SGR had proved its usefulness even before
ASAC. In 1987/88, food supplies were reduced by localized drought, the cassava mealy bug,
and pricing policies. At the same time food demand was expanded by aid agencies purchasing
grain to help feed the rapidly growing population of Mozambicans sheltering in Malawi. While
the SGR was rapidly drawn down, it provided a large infusion of food at a very critical point
in the marketing year, and helped to meet domestic needs while a larger donor food aid effort
was organized. Despite the availability of SGR maize, market prices rose sharply as
ADMARC had to ration its remaining maize. A wide gap appeared between ADMARC
consumer prices and open market prices, but without maize from the SGR, the situation would
29



have been far worse. Even more dramatically, in the drought of 1992, the SGR stocks proved
critical to the nation's food security. Of the total of about 300,000 tons of commercial maize
supplied to the market by ADMARC, one-third came from SGR stocks. Due to delays in
placing orders for commercial imports, even this amount proved iiidequate to moderate Late
season market price increases. A paper prepared for the workshop Food, Agriculture and
Nutritional Policy in Malawi (May 3-6 1993, Lilongwe)" gives a full analysis of the SGR
operations. The paper concludes that "better information about the structure of both supply and
demand will permit improvements in the models developed to help guide decision-making on
the size and management of the SGR. Pragmatic research on the lessons of the drought can
also improve these guidelines. The size of the stock needed for emergencies is largely a
function of the lead times needed to identify the emergency; to mobilize aid; to decide on
commercial imports; to order, load and transport the commodities. Analyzing last year's
experience will ensure that realistic time lags are built into the models used to help inform
decisions about the SGR". Thus, while the SGR has to date reduced the adverse effects of
periodic shortages on food security, there appears to be room for further improvements in its
management.
Social Dimensions of AdUustment (SDA)
5.32      The Social Dimensions of Adjustment Project (SDA) in Malawi forms part of a
regional initiative for Sub-Saharan Africa which commenced in 1988, jointly sponsored by
AfDB, UNDP and the World Bank, and supported by several bilateral and multilateral donors.
The project was established in order to address, firstly, the problems of protecting poor and
vulnerable groups from undue hardships resulting from structural adjustment and economic
reform and, secondly, the integration of these groups into the economic mainstream.
5.33      The SDA project in Malawi is working with a variety of Governmental and non-
Governmental partner institutions. A Project Unit has been established within EP&D of the
Office of the President and Cabinet to perform the function of coordination. The project was
planned to run for a period of four years, from 1990/91 with a budget of US$ 6.5 million, of
which US$ 1.5 million were to be provided by IDA under ASAC. The IDA contribution has
been fully disbursed. However, monitoring the of impact of ASAC reforms on the poor has
not yet started. The Household Expenditure and Small Scale Economic Activities Survey
(HESSEA) was carried out by the National Statistics Office (NSO) between July 1990 and July
1991 but analysis and release of the results is still awaited. The final report is to be produced
under the Poverty Task Force (PMF), which includes EP&D, NSO, the Ministry of Women's
and Children's Affairs and Community Services and the Center for Social Research (CSR).
The PTF is currently carrying out four studies: (a) a critical review of poverty literature; (b)
a community study; (c) a targeted nutrition study; and (d) a poverty impact assessment of
projects and programs since 1981. These studies are expected to be completed by the end of
1994. However, given the delays in implementing the SDA project and in publishing the
results of the HESSEA study, the capacity of the PTF may need to be strengthened, if timely
information regarding the effects of structural adjustment on the poor is to be provided. The
other component of SDA is the Social Program Support Fund (SPSF), which finances pilot
30



interventions at the grass-root level to test innovative approaches or methodologies for poverty
alleviation. The aim is to provide information to be utilized in tLe formulation of an effective
social development policy. The program, being executed by EP&D, started in May 1992 and
is expected to be completed by mid-1994. Financial support is beinW given by IDA, ODA and
GTZ. The mission was unable to obtain data on the progress or results of this program.
6. Overall Evaluation
Credit Conditions and Covenants
6.1       Implementation of agreed ASAC actions showed mixed performance, full and
prompt for some measures and weak, delayed or absent for others. A summary of the overall
status of implementation is presented in Annex 3. With regard to macro-economic policy
actions, experience was satisfactory for most of the structural reforms, including the
implementation of more flexible exchange rate policies, import liberalization, tax reforms, more
market-oriented banking policies, and fiscal and budgetary restraints. However, the Public
Sector Investment Program process, though improved, remains to be fully streamlined and no
significant progress was made in the proposed reform of public expenditure in agriculture.
Among the agricultural sector reforms, the main achievements were:
(a)    a significant increase in the number of smallholders growing burley
tobacco; the introduction of a two payment price system for all
smallholder tobacco growers and the liberalization of smallholder burley
tobacco marketing;
(b)    the reduction of fertilizer subsidies; a reorientation of subsidization
towards high analysis ferilizers and increased supplies of fertilizer;
(c)    the development of hybrid maize varieties which are acceptable in terms
of their storage and processing characteristics to smallholder farmers and
consumers;
(d)    the continuation of the annual price reviews and their submission to IDA
for comment; and
(e)    the implementation of the depot delivery maize price to private traders.
On the other hand, the MOU between the Treasury and ADMARC was only signed in
December 1993; no progress has been made in relation to land allocation, nor in improved land
use and the establishment of woodlots by estates; the full liberalization of ferdlizer markets has
been delayed and that of produce markets has not be sustained.
31



Weakness in Project Design
6.2        The main weaknesses in project design appear to have been related to some of the
assumptions that were entailed and the lack of commitment on thei part of Government and
other implementing agencies to some aspects of ASAC. For example, it seems unrealistic to
assume that ADMARC will completely withdraw in the future from performing commercial
activities as foreseen under ASAC and agreement between all parties concerned in this issue
appears not to have been attained. Similarly, the assumption that maintaining land lea  rents
at 1985 real values would have influenced the efficiency of land use by estates was unrealistic
since no attempt was made to establish the opportunity costs of land and to determine how this
related to such rents. A land classification study to enable the latter was not carried out.
Further, a more effective means of increasing estate efficiency may be to expose them to
competition from smallholder farmers. Government policy to restrict burley and flue-cured
tobacco production rights to the estate subsector has prevented this. Likewise attempting to
stop the transfer of land between the smallholder and estate subsectors through legal means was
unrealistic, given the strength of the economic incentives to undertake such transfers.
Government commitment to the liberalization of agricultural input markets appears to have been
weak, which explains the delayed implementation of this element. Finally, the ASAC was a
complex program, involving many components of a varied nature. This may explain the
inability to resolve design problems during implementation, as well as the lack of
implementation of some elements.
Performance of Government and IDA
6.3        Government. In general, Government took more vigorous and prompt actions
in regard to the macro-economic conditionality set out under ASAC than on issues relating to
the agricultural sector. A notable instance - which resulted in a slippage of the release of the
second tranche - was the delay in decisions regarding the two payment system for tobacco
grown by smallholder farmers. There was an absence of effective action in respect of the
rationalizing public expenditures in agriculture, the monitoring and evaluation of the ASAC and
strengthening the staffing of the Department of Lands. Moreover, there were long delays in
the signing of a memorandum of understanding between Government and ADMARC and in
liberalizing fertilizer markets. Some of the delays could have resulted from the preoccupation
of the authorities with emergencies such as the severe drought in 1992, but in part they also
reflect a lack of commitment on the part of Government. The failure to complete actions
within target dates may also have resulted from inadequate monitoring arrangements. In
retrospect, it therefore appears that implementation might have benefited from a more
collaborative preparation process, as well as support for strengthening the Ministry of
Agriculture's Planning Division. Minimally, the latter should have been provided with
appropriate staffing and authority, and charged with the responsibility to maintain a vigorous
and continuous focus on the ASAC agenda.
6.4       EI)A. Aside from the design weaknesses already described, given the inherent
difficulties in implementing major structural and institutional reforms within the limited duration
32



of a quick disbursing adjustment credit, the IDA supervision effort should have been stronger
than it was, in terms of the personnel resources devoted to it and the frequency of the missions.
The macro-economic elements of the ASAC package seem to have received the requisite
attention, partly because they were subsumed under the broader urn; rella of country economic
work and also because of the overlapping policy agenda between the IMF and the Banl The
resources devoted to supervising the agricultural aspects of ASAC, on the other hand, seem to
have fallen short of the requirements. With a stronger supervision effort, IDA would have
been better informed of the status of some of the matters set out in the policy matrix and, in
some instances, might have been able to accelerate borrower actions. In particular, there
appears to have been little attention drawn to the lack of progress in liberalizing fertilizer
markets. Further, it might have been useful to arrange for at least one visit by a fertlizer
distribution specialist as part of a supervision mission, given the importance of various fertilizer
related issues in the ASAC. Land allocation and use is another item which did not have the
benefit of much prior analysis or supervision during implementation. On the other hand, a
positive element in this picture is the emerging role of the Bank's resident mission, in
Lilongwe, in maintaining a constant dialogue with the Malawian authorities. This provides a
valuable means of monitoring, and assisting in, project implementation.
7. Second Tranche Release and Disbursement
7.1       The credit became effective in April 1990. The second tranche release took place
in October 1991 after a 10 month delay, one of the main reasons for which was the delayed
implementation of the two-payment system for smaUlholder tobacco. Of the total credit of SDR
56.5 million (including SDR 4.0 million as IDA reflows), together with a Dutch Grant of
Dfls 5.0 million and a UK Program Aid Grant of £ 10.0 million, a balance of about SDR
70,000 remained undisbursed as of 2 April 1993 (Part m, Tables 2 and 3). Under ASAC
some US$ 1.5 million were made available to support the Social Dimensions of Adjustment
(SDA) project currently being implemented by EP&D. The last IDA credit disbursement was
on 5 March 1993.
8. Sustainability
8.1       Macroeconomic Reforms.  Prospects for sustainability differ between the
stabilization measures and the structural reforms, which together comprise the macro-economic
policy package implemented under ASAC. The former represent actions such as those directed
towards exchange rate stability with discrete periodic adjustments, restraint in fiscal and
monetary policies, and liberalization of exchange and import controls.  The actual
implementation of these policies is bound to be influenced by changes occurring from year to
year in the domestic economy and in external trade. More importantly, the adherence to the
liberal policies pursued in these areas was strongly challenged by developments such as the
1992 drought, and the decisions made by the country's external donors in regard to the size and
conditions of their assistance. There is a risk that, in such circumstances, the pressure on the
country's foreign exchange reserves and fiscal accounts may lead the authorities to reverse or
33



modify some of the policies which, in their view, cannot be sustained in a climate of
uncertainty regarding foreign exchange earnings and fiscal receipts. However, the Government
maintained its stabilization programs despite these challenges. As a result of this, together with
increased growth and the resumption of donor support in 193, the prospects for the
continuation of stabilization policies are good.
8.2        Likewise, it appears that the structural and institutional changes will be sustained.
Thus, the possibilities opened up by the recent amendments to the banking legislation, the
rationalization of various trading regulations and the tax structure, and the diversification of the
institutions and instruments in the financial sector have a long-term relevance, and form part
of a broad infrastructure which could be sustained and improved over the years. The
Government is committed to deregulating the economy, the development of a vigorous,
autonomous private sector and the progressive build up of the institutions and facilities to
support such development. The recent efforts to develop fiscal discipline and refine the
allocation and planning of public investment through the PSIP may also be expected to
continue, as the recent resource constraints emphasized the need for improved coordination.
The trend towards the reduction of fertilizer subsidies is also expected to continue. These
expectations and judgements are based on Government's policy statements and actions carried
out so far. However, it is possible that the direction will change in the face of new political
circumstances.
8.3       Agricultural Reforms. In the area of reforms applying specifically to agriculture,
again several actions taken so far represent potentially far reaching changes which are not liely
to be reversed. Allowing smallholders to produce burley tobacco and the development of
appropriate hybrid maize varieties are cases in point. Similarly, although delayed, ferdlizer
marketing has now been liberalized. On the other hand, progress has been less positive in
other areas and the deepening of even the successful reforms may not be easy. For example,
the further expansion of smallholder burley tobacco production is likely to require a reallocation
of production away from the estates, given world markets and Malawi's role in them. The
Government has expressed resistance to adopting such a strategy.  Likewise, although
agricultural produce markets were formally liberalized in 1987, the Government has
implemented several apparent policy reversals since then, for example banning private
participation in groundnut trading periodically. It has also not completed the liberalizadon
process - smallholder tobacco markets (except for burley) remain monopolized. The major
changes in ADMARC which have already been made seem likely to stay, but how far further
changes will go is not clear in view of the delays which have occurred in finalizing the
Memorandum of Understanding between Government and ADMARC. The same is true of the
liberalization of fertilizer markets.  Land allocation and use is another area in which
sustainability cannot be assumed, since implementation has so far been disappoindng, largely
due to the intervention methods chosen. While none of the reforms implemented in the
agricultural sector under ASAC are inherently unsustainable, there may be a need for greater
Government commitment to the liberalization process. In addition, some of the reforms were
poorly designed - for example the attempt to legally cease the transfer of land from the
customary to the estate sector; the enforcement of woodlot establishment on estates and the
34



depot maize pricing policy. The continued implementation of these elements should therefore
be reassessed.
9. Main Lessons Learnt
Ihe Preparation, Supervision and Management of Stuctural Reforms
9.1       It was expected under ASAC that the Government of Malawi and ADMARC
would enter into an agreement which would set out criteria for determining the developmental
and food security functions to be carried out by ADMARC, establish a methodology for
calculating the involved costs, define procedures for making budgetary subventions to
ADMARC to cover losses resulting from such activities and define performance targets that
the parastatal had to meet in order to be reimbursed for undertaking these activities. The
process of drafting the proposed agreement has taken a long time and the agreement was only
signed in December 1993. This seems to be illustrative of the difficulties faced in compressing
a major structural or institutional reform within the duration of a quick disbursing adjustment
credit. In such instances, either more preparatory work should have been completd before
the approval of the IDA credit so that atl necessary follow-up actions could be quickly taken.
It is an unsatisfactory situation that, while the credit was fully disbursed, the implementa
of a major reform included in ASAC had not been implemented. This experience seems to
suggest that complex and far-reaching institutional reforms should not be incorporated within
the framework of adjustment operations unless considerable preparatory work has been
completed and agreement reached among all the concerned parties on the details of
implementation. In addition, closer and more comprehensive supervision of the program on
the part of the Bank may have alleviated some delays. Nonetheless, it is also important to note
that the Government has continued or deepened several of the reform processes initiated under
the ASAC through other programs. For example, the finalization and public announcement of
the liberalization of fertilizer markets was completed under the Agricultural Services Project.
9.2       More collaborative and careful preparation could also have prevented weaknesses
in the design of ASAC. One flaw in the design of ASAC was an attempt to use administrative
measures to resolve market failures. For example, the attempt to halt the transfer of land from
the customary to the estate subsector through making it illegal failed, because of loop-holes in
the law and because the incentives to transfer land in this manner were not addressed (i.e., the
monopoly of the estate subsector on burley tobacco production rights). Another example is the
two-tiered price system devised for ADMARC payments to smallholder tobacco producers.
This is a complex process and has lead to increasing official prices in the face of falling world
market prices. Liberalizing tobacco marketing would have addressed the root causes of the
problems observed - i.e., the taxation of smallholder tobacco production - more directly.
Similarly, the wisdom of offering private maize traders a 20% price increase for the delivery
of produce in bulk to ADMARC depot markets has lead to an unnecessary market distortion.
Not only does this policy create a false dependence in private maize markets, but it does not
provide a means of sustainably alleviating the problem it was intended to address - namely the
shortage of working capital amongst private traders.  In retrospect, ensuring that the
35



liberalization of produce markets was fully implemented and sustained, and addressing
weaknesses in Malawi's financial markets (e.g., a lack of competition and of linkages between
formal and informal financial sectors) may have provided a more effective and susainable
means of addressing the capital constraint on the development of private produce markets.
9.3       In addition, more attention should have been paid to the pacing and sequenCing of
implementation of the reforms during preparation. For example, currency devaluaions were
infroquently implemented, which led to the need for large scale devaluations in 1992. Also
iberalizing imports when the Kwacha was overvalued, exposed domestic producers to intense
international competition.
Smallholder Burley Tobacco Program
9.4       The rationale for expanding smallholder burley tobacco has been compLetely
vindicated by the experience gained under ASAC. Its significance derives from its potential
for spreading the benefits of a favorable export market among smalUholders, the profitability
of its cultivation, which generates the cash needed by the smallholders for purchasing
agricultural inputs, and the boost which this additional income gives to the rural non-farm
economy. This is a promising opportunity which should be pursued and expanded from the
point of view of poverty reduction and growth. There is currently no consensus on the way
in which this should be done, but the Government is undertaking a study of the costs and
benefits of various ways in which the current system for allocating production rights could be
improved, in terms of equity and efficiency.
Coordination and Follow-up
9.5        Although there was an inter-ministerial committee to deal with implementation of
the various reforms proposed under ASAC, it appears that in practice coordination and
implementation management was not fully effective, particularly in matters such as monitoring
and evaluation. Considering the broad range of such actions and the likelihood that many of
them would need to be pursued beyond the short period of the quick-disbursing credit, the
arrangements for coordination and management should have been placed on a firmer
institutional footing and continued on a medium-term basis. To this end, as suggested by the
Government, financial support for the strengthening of the Planning Division of the Ministry
of Agriculture may have been beneficial. In addition, a more effective coordination mechanism
could have perhaps helped reduce the ten-month delay in complying with the conditions for the
second tranche release, although it is also likely that a more collaborative approach to the
preparation of ASAC could have alleviated this problem. Finally, supervision by the Bank
could have been improved, both qualitatively and quantitatively.
36



Public Expenditures
9.6       As only limited progress was made in rationalizing agricultural expenditures, it
appears that the conditionality under ASAC in this respect should hdve been more specific so
as to commit the Government to definite actions beyond those cited in connection with the
release of the second tranche. Further, given the related interest of ASAC in the formulation
of the Government's investment program and the close relationship between the development
and recurring expenditures to which the PER of 1990 had also drawn attention, issues relating
to public expenditure in agriculture should perhaps have been addressed in a broader
perspective. The program should, therefore, have sought for a review of the overall budget
management policies and procedures, as they have a close bearing on both the PSIP and
agricultural expenditures covered by ASAC.
Poverty-related Pilot Schemes
9.7       A review of the pilot efforts of various multilateral and non-governmental
organizations to taclde different aspects of rural poverty in Malawi suggests that they have been
localized, piecemeal and experimental with inconclusive results. There is a need for
Government to develop a coherent strategy within which to coordinate all such pilot
interventions, evaluate their impact, and determine how these efforts should be followed up to
produce more effective results.
Enviromment
9.8       As indicated earlier, the Department of Lands was not able to enforce the
establishment of woodlots by estates. In the context of controlled wood prices, most estates do
not grow tress but purchase wood from commercial operators who continue to exploit the
indigenous natural forests on customary land.  Much faith is placed in restricting the
exploitation of natural forests by commercial operators while preserving the rights of rural
households to such resources; in improving barn efficiency, converting waste wood from pine
forests into charcoal, and possibly extending the electricity grid to cover the rural flue-cured
tobacco growing areas of central Malawi. However, the Government should put more
emphasis on liberalizing/increasing fuelwood prices to enhance the incentives for tree planting.
37



PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
BACKGROUND
The government of Malawi undertook various stabilization and structural
adjustment efforts in the eighties, supported by 3 IDA-financed SALs and other
external assistance. These efforts led to some improvements in the fiscal and
current account balances and modest growth in the industry and estate agriculture
and among the larger smallholders. However, because of structural constraints
in the economy, the supply response to these measures was not sufficient to raise
per capita incomes appreciably. The ASAC sought to address these constraints
through a combination of macro-economic and sectoral reform, and help Malawi
achieve growth and reduce poverty.
The credit became effective in April 1990. The second tranche took place in
October 1991 with about 10 months delay over the foreseen date, one of the main
reasons being the implementation of the two tier payment for burley tobacco. The
total credit of SDR 56.5 million (including SDR 4.0 million as IDA reflows) has
been fully disbursed together with a Dutch Grant of Dfls 5.0 million and UK
Program AID Grant of 10 million pounds. Under ASAC some US $1.5 million
were made available to support the Social Dimension of Adjustment (SDA) project
currently being implemented by EP&D. The last IDA credit disbursement was
in March 1993. A balance of about SDR 70,000 remained as of April, 1993.
2.        OBJECTIVES OF ASAC
The objectives of ASAC were clearly spelt out in the ASAC appraisal document
and are outlined in part I of the PCR prepared by the Bank in collaboration with
FAO. The primary objectives of the program were to achieve sustainable growth
and to reduce poverty and food insecurity. To these ends, ASAC included both
macro-economic and agricultural sector reforms. Macro-economic reforms
focused on management of external sector and public finance. Agricultural sector
reforms centered on measures to improve incomes and food security among
smallholders and land use efficiency in estates.
More specifically, ASAC envisaged reforms comprising measures to:
a)     continue the flexible exchange rate and restrained monetary and fiscal
policies; improve export incentives; complete the final stage of trade
liberalization; revise the Banking Act to enhance monetary management
and induce a market-based monetary and credit system;
38



b)     focus the Public Sector Investment Program  (including agricultural
expenditures) on areas of high priority and returns;
c)    improve crop pricing and marketing policies tLough expanding the role
of the private sector;
d)     reduce fertilizer subsidies, improve fertilizer availability and use among
smallholders, liberalize the distribution of fertilizer and improve the
financial management and funding of the SFFRFM;
e)     rationalize ADMARC's financing to enable it to phy the role as a price
stabilization agency more effectively.
f)     shift agricultural research policy and financing to develop hybrid flint
maize varieties that are high-yielding and acceptable to most smallholders;
and
g)     allow smallholders to grow high-value cash crops, especially burley
tobacco.
3.        PERFORMANCE OF THE ECONOMY
Between Independence and the end of the 1970s, the Malawi Economy enjoyed
vigorous economic growth and development. The real growth rate in Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) averaged over 6 percent, corresponding to an average
annual growth of per capita income of 3 percent. This impressive GDP growth
rate was attributable to substantial increases in output from the agricultural sector,
providing a wide export base and also fuelling the expansion of secondary sectors
such as manufacturing. Total productive activity also benefitted from the balanced
development of basic infrastructure, in particular, roads, railways and public
utilities. In the external sector, the overall balance of payments position during
the period was favorable, due to the rapid growth of exports from the estate
subsector and a sizeable amount of capital inflows.  Performance of the
government budget was satisfactory largely due to increased government revenue
and relatively small recurrent requirements for institutional support.  The
impressive economic performance pre-1979 was due mainly to a development
strategy based on liberal economic policies which gave priority to raising
agricultural productivity.
Since the late 1970s, the Malawi economy has suffered a series of external shocks,
which include worsening external terms of trade, rising import prices of capital
goods and intermediate goods, increasingly severe debt service problems, and a
disruption of the country's traditional routes to the sea. Consequently the post-
39



1979 period was one of generally depressed growth. Growth in GDP fell from
3.3 percent in 1979 to -5.2 percent in 1981. The overall balance of payments
position also deteriorated (except for 1980). The current account balance has
throughout been in deficit during the post-1979 period. Net capital inflows were
inadequate to finance the current account deficit. This was due to increases in
interest rates on the international money markets. By 1982, the external debt
service payments had reached an unsustainable level of 44 per cent. Accordingly,
the country rescheduled its debt under both Paris and London club agreements.
The adverse factors mentioned above also affected the budget. In relation to
GDP, the deficit was 9.7 percent in 1979/80 and increased to about 12 percent in
and 1981/82. The Government, accordingly undertook to implement measures
aimed at restoring the external equilibrium of the economy and imprcve its growth
prospects. These measures covered a wide area and were put together in the form
of a medium-term program supported by an International Monetary Fund stand-by
arrangement and a Structural Adjustment Loan from the World Bank. Arising
from these measures, a balance of payments surplus of K 91.0 million was
registered in 1984. Real gross domestic product grew by over 3 percent during
the 1982-83 period. The country's debt service ratio progressively declined to 38
percent in 1984. Beginning in 1985, further external shocks buffeted the
economy. The rail lines to the ports in Mozambique were cut off completely.
The terms of trade took another nosedive as tea and tobacco prices weakened and
the balance of payments underwent a dramatic deterioration. The current account
deficit rose to 9 percent of GDP in 1985. Combined with decreased inflows on
the capital account, this led to increasingly rapid reserve losses. The country also
suffered more setbacks in 1986 and 1987 in the form of adverse weather
conditions, and the increase in the flow of displaced persons from Mozambique,
further strained the food and other resources of the country. The debt service
ratio rose sharply to 57 percent in 1986. As a result real GDP stagnated and
inflationary pressures intensified.
In response to the continuing deterioration of the economy, the Government in
1987 prepared a new strategy, which is set out in its statement of Development
Policies, 1987-1996. It also formulated a three year program covering the period
April 1988 to March 1991 aimed at continuing and deepening adjustment reforms
to: align aggregate demand with available resources through stricter fiscal,
monetary and credit policies, together with active exchange rate management;
increase productivity through addressing policy and investment constraints on the
performance of the major economic sectors; strengthen the role of the private
sector through liberalization and improved incentives; and enhance the efficiency
of public resource utilization. This adjustment program was supported by the
World Bank through the Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit (ITPAC)
approved in 1988, by the IMF through a stand-by arrangement and an Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) and by further debt rescheduling in 1988.
40



The policy adjustmLent program envisaged over the decade is clearly spelt out in
the statement of development policies 1987-1996, published by the Department of
Economic Planning and Development. The Government remains committed to the
creation of a general climate that encourages enterprise and investment, both
domestic and foreign. It gives priority to increasing the productivity of assets
available to the poor, mainly labor and land, and to reducing population growth.
In addition to increase agricultural productivity, the strategy envisages policies and
investment measures to: expand off-farm employment opportunities through
promoting the informal sector, other labor-intensive enterprises, and agro-
industries; slow down the rate of population growth through child-spac
programs; enhance the quality of human capital through improving access bO
education and health services; and improve efficiency in the use of public
resources.
4.        PERFORMANCE OF THE ECONOMY WITIN ASAC PROGRAM
PERIOD.
Since 1988 the economy has shown signs of recovery. Real GDP grew by 3.3
percent in 1988, 4.3 percent in 1989 and 4.8 percent in 1990. During 1991 real
GDP growth reached 7.8 percent. The main driving force behind the rise in GDP
has been increased agricultural production and increased industrial production and
distribution.
The rate of inflation which averaged 31.4 percent in 1988 decelerated substanially
to 15.7 percent in 1989 and 11.6 percent in 1990. In 1991, it increased slightly
to 11.9 percent reflecting the impact of the closure of the Tete route and excessive
monetary expansion. Inflation has abated in response to tight monetary and fiscal
policies and the impact of nominal exchange rate stability and availability of
commodities due to import liberalization program.
The fiscal deficit (including grants) fell from 8.7 percent of GDP in 1987/88 to
6.7 percent and 6.3 percent in 1989/90 and 1990/1991, respectively. This shows
a steady improvement in fiscal performance at least up to 1991.  This
improvement has come from revenue growth, expenditure monitoring and control
measures.
The performance of the balance of payment's has been mixed as a result of
varying export performance during the period and the impact of the import
liberalization program. The current account deficit rose from 8.2 percent of GDP
in 1988 to 13.4 percent in 1989. This was largely on account of delays in
shipment of tobacco, tea and coffee exports which led to large stock accumulation.
The situation improved in 1990 as the export stocks were cleared leading to a
decline in the current account deficit to 7.8 percent of GDP. In 1991, the current
account deficit ratio deteriorated to 12.0 percent. With the exception of 1989, the
41



overall balance of payments position has been recording surpluses as reflected in
the changes in net foreign assets of the banking system.
5.        POST-ASAC IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD PERFORMANCE
After a record performance in economic growth to the tune of 7.8 percent in real
GDP in 1991 there were disturbing signs in 1992 on the economic front. The
principal underlying cause for this was the damaging effect of a shortfal in the
smallholder agricultural production in 1992. The shortfall was mainly due to the
drought that seriously affected the country in 1992. For example, relative to the
bumper crop of about 1.6 million tons of maize production in 1991, an output of
657,000 tons during the 1992/93 season represented a significant loss. The
repercussions have permeated throughout the economy. The drought adversely
affected all smallholder production including rice, groundnut, cassava and many
other root-crops. Consequently real GDP declined in real terms by 7.9 percent
during 1992. To maintain some minimum living standards for the smallholder
subsistence sector, there was importation of foodgrains supported by foreign aid
contributions, supplemented by the extra costs of distribution of maize that the
Government had to incur in its budget provisions in the fiscal year 1992/1993.
The neighboring countries in the SADC region also suffered form the drought,
with related economic impacts. This called for massive imports of foodgrains,
resulting in balance of payments deficits in those countries. This caused pressures
on the international aid pool and donor rationing both in food supply and in aid.
6.        POLICIES PROPOSED UNDER ASAC
Several policies were proposed under the ASAC program. These can be broadly
divided into agriculture policy and macro-economic policy.:
6.1       Macro-Economic Policies
Macroeconomic policy reforms which were proposed under ASAC can be divide
into three major categories, i.e., external sector policy, public finance policy, and
monetary policy.
External sector policy was aimed at improving the efficiency of resource allocation
and increasing exports. Actions which were proposed to be undertaken under
ASAC included:- maintaining the exchange rate at levels satisfactory to IDA;
implementation of the fourth stage of an import liberalization program; removing
the requirement of prior approval of foreign exchange for all imports except for
a short list of luxury items satisfactory to IDA; reviewing the import tariff
structure and reducing levels; and developing and initiating implementation of a
more effective duty drawback system for exports. It should be noted that the
exchange rate policy, the import liberalization policy, as well as the export
42



promotion activities proposed under ASAC program were a continuation of actions
recently undertaken under structural adjustment loans from the IM and through
the World Bank supported lTPAC .
Public finance policy was aimed at containing inflation, improving efficiency in
the use of public resources, easing the pressure on the balance of payments, and
releasing resources to the private sector. These were to be achieved through the
following instruments: restraining fiscal deficits; improving the quality of the
public swctor investment program (PSIP); restructing agricultural editures;
reducing fertilizer subsidies, and reforming the tax systen. Actions which were
to be undertaken under this program included maintaining the fiscal deficit and
preparing PSIP for 1990/91-1992/93 satisfactory to MDA; completing the review
and beginning the implementation of recommendations of the findings of the public
expenditure review (PER) completed by the World Bank in 1988; maintaining the
economic rate of fertilizer subsidies at a level not exceeding 30 percent in
1990/91, 25 percent in 1991/92, and 20 percent than in 1992/93, with total
subsidy subventions not more than 2 percent of total Government expenditure in
1990/91, 1.6 percent in 1991/92, and 1.3 percent in 1992/93; and revising the
income tax structure. These was also a continuation of earlier policies by IMF
and other donors.
Monetary policy was aimed at containing inflation through improving monetary
management; and enhancing the efficiency of the financial system through
introduction of a more market based monetary and credit system. Actions to be
taken by the ASAC were to present a revised Banking Act to parliament, which
would allow the Reserve Bank of Malawi to fully play the conventional role of a
Central Bank.
6.2       Macro-Economic Policies Implemented
(a)    External Policies
The following policy instruments which were proposed under ASAC were
implemented:
(i) Exchange Rate: To pursue the goal of restoring external
competitiveness and to support import liberalization, the Malawi
Kwacha was devalued several times against its basket in 1990, 1991
and by 15 percent and 22 percent in May and June 1992 respectively.
The 1992 devaluations restored external competitiveness to levels
equivalent to 1987/88, the period with the most depreciated real
exchange rate.
Ceteris paribus a depreciation of the kwacha should have made
agriculture exports more profitable and induced expansion, assuming
43



the additional cost of imports does not wipe out incremental
profitability  (major  imports  being  fertilizer,  pesticides,
fuel/transportation, equipment, spare parts, etc); It may be argued
that while international prices for fexdlizers (in Dollar terms)
fluctuated or were stable over the years, the changes in the exchange
rate have pushed up the equivalent cost in kwacha. This argument
can be applied to all imported inputs and transportation services.
The government has tried to alleviate the situation by subsidizing, for
example, fertilizer but it also has committed itself to phase out
ferdlizer subsidies by 1994/95.
ii) Import Liberalization: This came as an improvement over foreign
exchange rationing, supported by the International Development
Agency and other donors. A final phase of liberalization in 1991
targeted the remaining raw materials, spare parts, and intermediate
and capital good. At the end of the program the allocation of foreign
exchange had been devolved to the commercial banks. For the first
time the commercial banks became exercising agents for foreign
exchange allocation.
iii) Export Promotion: The government had earlier reduced the range of
goods requiring an export license and introduced a tax allowance for
exports. It was proposed to develop and initiate implementation of
a more effective duty drawback system for exports. The investment
promotion Act of 1991 provided for special incentives for export
manufacturing in the proposed Export Processing Zones (EPZ) and
general ones for non traditional exports (mainly manufacturing). The
stipulated incentives for EPZ manufacturing include: a corporate tax
rate of 15 percent; no withholding tax on dividends; no duty on
capital and raw materials and packaging materials made in Malawi;
no value added tax; and a transport tax allowance amounting to 25
percent of international transport costs.
(b)    Public Finance Policy
i) Fiscal policies: This component included the development of a tax
reform program and a strengthening of budget procedures. As a
result there was a substantial reduction in the Central Government
budget deficit between 1986/87 and 1991/92. However, the deficit
rose again in 1992/93, due to expenditures on the referendum
campaign and drought relief efforts. Structural reforms in budgetary
planning included the introduction of 5 year rolling public sector
investment program. There has also been a comprehensive tax
reform aimed at improving tax administration and allocative
efficiency.
44



ii) Agriculture Expenditure/Public Expenditure Review: To ensure an
accurate reflection of development priorities in the agricultural
sector, while trying to minimize expenditure or maintain expenditures
within budget ceilings, there has been cluse monitoring of the size
and composition of the public sector investment program. A public
sector management review was completed in 1991 and serves as the
basis of improving economic management in the current tight fiscal
environment.
(c)    Fertilizer Subsidies
The government's commitments under ASAC were that the overall
subsidy rate on fertilizers was not to exceed 30 percent in 1990/91, 25
per cent in 1991/92, and 20 percent in 1992/93, while the total
subvention as a proportion of total government expenditure was not of
exceed 2 percent in 1990/1991, 1.6 percent in 1991/92, and 1.3 percent
in 1992/93. The government has been meeting these targets, but for the
1992/93 season, facing more adverse circumstances than anticipated, it
negotiated an allocation of K 25 million for the fertilizer subvention, an
estimated 1.4 percent government expenditure, slightly above the target
previously set. Even this required an increase in fertilizer prices of
between 20 and 40 percent in 1992/93.
From 1980 to 1991 total sales of fertilizer to smallholder more than
doubled, and there is an indication of success in the attempt to move
towards higher analysis fertilizers.  However, smallholder use of
fertilizers in Malawi remains extremely low. Further, within the
smallholder subsector, fertilizer use is highly skewed towards larger
farmers on customary lands who have access to credit.
Thus the government is caught between upward pressure on fertilizer
prices, continuing currency devaluations, transport problems and its
commitment to phase out fertilizer subsidies and its need to increase
fertilizer consumption by smallholders. It should be noted that official
prices for fertilizers have risen substantially in real terms since 1980,
while ADMARC real producer prices for the main crops have stagnated
or fallen.
(d)    Tax Reforms
The government strengthened the collection of income taxes and the
extension of taxation of fringe benefits in 1990/91. It also began
lowering tax rates, with a decrease in the highest marginal corporate and
individual income tax rate, in 1989190 without jeopardizing the revenue
base. In 1991/92 the government combined a reduction in the base surtax
45



rate with a widening of the base, (i.e., expanding it to include electricity
and telephone, as well as other services). Some specific measures
implemented in the 1992/93 budget include the elimination of surtax
exemption for domestically produced goods and the consolidation of the
protective effect of domestic surtax exemption into the existing tariff rates
to a maximum of 75 percent. In addition the government is currently
reviewing, and will implement appropriate measures to strengthen
customs administration, to increase compliance and increase customs
revenue.
(e)    Monetary Policy
The Reserve Bank of Malawi is involved in trading monetary instruments
and securities as is reflected in the Reserve Bank of Malawi Act of 1989.
Direct regulation of commercial bank credit has, however, discontinued.
These banks and other financial institutions now independently determine
their interest rate structure.
The government under the same act has established a framework to
improve competition in the financial market and promote investment.
Also, in order to enable Post Office Savings Bank to play a more
effective role in mobilizing resources, there has been an initiative to
restructure it.
Another element of the financial reform program is the encouragement
of new capital market activity, based on the Capital Market Development
Act, 1990.
7.        AGRICULTURAL POLICY REFORMS
The key policy reforms in the agricultural sector involved changes in the allocation of
cash crop rights; the liberalization of output marketing and input distribution;
rationalization of ADMARC's funding and functions; institutional reforms with respect
to fertlizer procurement and financing; changes in laws surrounding land allocation and
use; food security targeting; encouraging research into high yielding flint maize
varieties, and monitoring the social dimensions of adjustment and woodlots on estates.
Tle outcome of some of these key policy reforms are discussed below.
7.1    Cash Crop ADocation
Under ASAC the government introduced a structural change into Malawian
agriculture by changing burley tobacco growing and marketing regulations to
allow  smallholders to grow  this lucrative crop.  The enthusiasm  of
smallholders in growing the tobacco far exceeded the authorized quotas placing
considerable demands on the government to increase planned levels of quota
46



allocated to them. The current number of smallholder burley tobacco growers
represents only 1.6 percent of the total 1.8 million smalUholder in Malawi.
Increasing amounts of illegal production of burley are widely reported. The
marketing of burley has been further liberaliztA by inclusion of other
marketing options like direct sales to auction floors and estates in addition to
ADMARC.
7.1.1.        The Bank may wish to note that a number operational
problems have been encountered.
a)        The crop can only be grown by a small proportion of the
smallholders and one questions why the Bank could not have
considered other options that would complement the burley
option. Burley is not the only cash crop or enterprise that
can improve farmers income.  Other donors have also
emphasized the same crop even after the collapse of prices in
1992 and 1993 seasons.
b)        The target group of farmers with 1.0 ha and less has caused
some problems in some areas, with families with larger
holdings having poor incomes and food security problems
because they do not have the cash to buy purchased inputs
and access to markets. Farm size is not the only constraint
that smallholders are facing. In some ADDs farmers are
poor not because they don't have enough land, but because
capital is a key constraint among others.
c)        As a result of providing more market options, the majority of
farmers growing burley opted to sell directly to the auction
floors given the fact that this option has been resulting in
higher prices than selling to ADMARC and the added
problem of late second payment by ADMARC. While this
gives farmers the best price, the major bottleneck has been
transportation of the product from remote areas to the auction
floors. This has at times left farmers in a situation where
they have sold their tobacco to ADMARC, estate owners or
illegal traders at give away prices.
7.1.2.        The estate farmers have not really welcomed the introduction
of smallholder burley production, because they have
perceived it as something that will destroy the tobacco
industry. Any move that the ministry has undertaken has
been looked at critically by the estate sector. Part 1 of the
PCR raises two questions as regards the introduction of
smallholder burley production. First, is the issue of estate
47



tenants and how the tenancy system responds to the new
opportunity now available to the smallholder. Second, is
diversification in which estates must eventually take the lead.
The issues are that (a) tenants should be free to enter and exit
the estate sector depending on the opportunities that exist and
(b) whether the estate sector takes the leading role in
diversification or not will essentially depend on the type of
commodity.
To promote various diversification options will require technical support,
access to finance, organization and institutional arrangements, appropriate
technologies, transportation and identified markets. The Government
recognizes that the estate subsector has been protected for a long time and
this has been at the expense of the smallholders. It is high time these
subsectors were given equal opportunity.
7.2    Rationalization of ADMARC Funding and Functions
The principal ASAC conditionalities regarding ADMARC's operations were
continuing the divestiture program and implementing the critical Memorandum
of Understanding (MOU) with government financing ADMARC functions
related to development and food security. In addition, Government was
required to set prices of crops handled by ADMARC so that individual crop
accounts at least break even on average over a three year period.
7.2.1         Memorandum of Understanding
The document has not been signed to date. There is need to critically
analyze the magnitude of subsidy that government will be committing (i.e.,
there is need to compare the subsidy levels with and without MOU). The
principle behind the MOU seems justifiable, but it is possible that
ADMARC may end up getting the subsidies and not the intended
beneficiaries (i.e., the smallholder farmers). The drawing up of the MOU
should have preceded ASAC and the policy implications carefully analyzed
before putting it as a condition of the program. A major problem appears
to be that ADMARC is not sure of government's financial commitment to
MOU.
7.2.2         Improved Efficiency through Expansion of the Private Sector
Until 1990/91 ADMARC maintained a legal monopoly over the marketing
of all smallholder produce including tobacco, cotton and groundnuts.
Historically it has paid low prices to smallholders, averaging some 20-30%
of world market prices. In 1992 Government adopted improved policies
(e.g, bonus second payment for tobacco producers, higher prices, more
48



marketing options) which were intended to increase smallholder production
and income. Since 1987 ADMARC's legal monopsony in the marketing
of maize and other crops has been relaxed, and private traders have been
permitted to purchase directly from smallholder, based on minimum
prices, so as to promote better returns for those farmers with a surplus for
sale.
Some high value crops are still controlled and have to be marketed through
ADMARC. Generally the prices paid by ADMARC for cash crops have
been lower than their export parity value, but under new pricing reforms
implemented in the 1990/91 season, ADMARC is beginning to pay the
export parity prices. For example, food crops like rice have recently
received close to export parity prices.
With structural adjustment and market liberalization, ADMARC was put
on a sounder commercial base. The most significant aspect of the re-
organization has been the closure of a number of ADMARC markets
considered to be financially inviable in terms of low volume of throughput.
These markets are in remote rural areas. While ADMARC improved its
financial performance, re-organization has adversely affected the poorer
segments of the rural population. Closure of the ADMARC markets in the
remote areas leaves poorer households extremely vulnerable to rising
maize prices in local markets, especially if maize is scarce and some
markets were reopened as a result. Private buyers have not filled the void
of ADMARC in these areas and its questionable if they will replace the
role of ADMARC. The main constraints facing the private traders include
lack of access to investment and working capital, training and technical
requirements, availability of transport at low cost, and a set of
administered prices that do not make private operations profitable. The
key constraint to the development of the sector is the scarcity of transport
services and capital.
7.2.3         Divestiture Program
A USAID technical assistance team assisted ADMARC in the design and
implementation of a divestiture program. ADMARC divested itself of
many of these holdings. On page 22, point 5.12 of part I of the PCR, it
is stated that the fact ADMARC recently agreed to purchase a private
ginnery not as a company holding but as an asset to circumvent its own
divesture policy, implies that the continued divesture process requires
additional monitoring and evaluation'. The move to acquire the ginnery
is a strategy to cut down on ginning costs incurred by ADMARC and not
the objective suggested in the above quoted statement.
49



7.3    Fertilizer Procurement and Financing
The initial ASAC actions were to assist Government in the preparation of a S
year projection of fertilizer requirements, as well as operational guidelines for
the management of the bufferstock established with EEC support. In addition,
Government was to continue to reduce subsidies and take actions to facilitate
private sector participation in the system (subject to food security policies).
The policy of Government supported by ASAC and other donors, continues to
be the elimination of fertilizer subsidies altogether by 1995/96.
SFFRFM has been succssful in terms of procuring fertilizer for the
smallholder subsector. It operates as a non-profit making agency and is
dependent on government subsidies. However, SFFRFM's capacity to respond
to increased smalUholder fertilizer demand is eroded each year by its:
(i) inability to apply profit margins to the ferdlizer it trades at Government
fixed prices;
(ii) Government delays in funding its operating losses (annual subsidies to
smallholder consumed fertilizer); a fixed nominal capital and eroding real
capital;
(iii) general inflation in fertilizer prices;
(v) eroding purchasing power to meet the demand for fertilizer. In the recent
environment of liberalized marketing policies, SFFRFM is faced with the
issue of its financial viability and future role.
Under ASAC the Government has committed itself to phasing out of fertilizer
subsidies once it is possible to do this without risking a fall in maize
production and deteriorating household food security. The reduction of
subsidies in the 1992/93 cropping season, with eventual removal by the
1995/96 season, will be concurrent with liberalization of fertilizer market
implementation starting from 1993/94 season.
Fertilizer usage is still among the lowest in Africa, however, its use continues
to increase. The increase in use of fertlizer has to be interpreted with caution
because, even though fertilizer is subsidized, prices have increased
substantially over the past decade due to the devaluation of the Kwacha,
increased external transport costs, increased international fertilizer prices and
the reduction in government subsidy. Fertilizer sales are closely tied to the
credit system of SACA and the extension service of MOA. However, there
is leakage of fertilizer (estimated as high as 25-35% in 1989) to the estate
50



subsector. Therefore increased sales to smallholders may not reflect increased
utilization by smallholders.
7.4    Food Security
Under ASAC, particular mphasis was given to support the Govnment's
ttpt to achieve sustainable growth and to reduce povty and food
insecuriy. The credit also included a component concerned specfically with
the vulnerable and resource-poor groups.
Malawi's development policy and goals have emphasized national self-
sufficiency in food production and attaintment of national food security. But
nearly 55% of smallholder households are food insecu  even in the best
seasons, in spite of the surplus marketed through ADMARC which has given
the impression that the country is food self-sufficient and food secure. The per
capita production of maize (which is the staple food) declined from 204 kg in
1970 to an average of 162 kg in 1990 and household food security remains
precarious.
There are two major issues in the underlying cause of household insecurity
namely:
i. low agricultural productivity;
ii. limited off-farm employment opportunities and low levels of incomes.
T'he national prevalence of malnutrition amongst adults is difficult to determine
in the absence of data, but the assumption is widely accepted, particularly as
it related to rural women who suffer malnutrition and weight losses to a great
extent during the pre-harvest and heavy labor demand period. The NSSA
survey of 1980/81 revealed that approximately 56% of under fives in rural
Malawi suffered from chronic malnutrition. A 1991 survey found that about
59% of the children in poor urban areas were stunted.
In Malawi poverty is significant and widespread, prevalent in both rural and
urban areas, and it encompasses a little more than half the population, or
approximately S5 %. The World Bank estimates that about 60% of smallholder
population is living below the poverty line. In the estate subsector, about two
thirds of the population, consisting of estate tenants and estate workers, is
described as living below poverty line and the extent of poverty among women
headod households is significant. Poverty in the urban areas is as marled as
it is in the rural areas, although the actual numbers of people involved is low.
51



Malawi's development performance in macro-economic management has been
impressive. However, poverty at the household level amongst various groups
is widespread and persistent as shown above.
8.        OTHE COMMENIS ON THE PCR
8.1    Government agrees with the Bank that complex far reaching institutional
reforms should not be incorporated within the framework of adjustment
opeations unless considerable preparatory work has been completed and
agreement reached among the concerned parties on the details of
implementation. The delays in finalization of MOU is a typical example.
8.2    The Aid Memoire of the Bank's supervision mission of November 1991 refers
to a discussion with government officials of various suggestions for monitoring
and facilitating field level implementation. These included proposals for the
formal designation of a senior officer with supporting staff and funds for this
purpose and convening of quarterly review meetings chaired by a senior
government official. There is no indication that these suggestions were
endorsed by the Bank in its communication to GOM on this supervision
mission or implemented by the authorities in the field.
The Bank and Government should certainly take note of this anomaly and in
future make sure that a proper M & E system is put in place.
8.3    Government agrees that the rationalization of agricultural expenditure should
have been spelt out in specific terms so as to commit the government to define
actions which should have gone beyond those cited in connection with the
release of second tranche.
8.4    Government is still having problems with getting a second payment from
ADMARC to tobacco farmers prior to the beginning of the agricultural season
so that farmers can use the cash to buy inputs. There is need to design a
system that would overcome this problem.
8.5   Instead of increasing the export base through export diversification, the number
export crops has actually declined over the last decade.
8.6    The ASAC pricing formula for tobacco has resulted in the Government
subsidizing the tobacco crop. In 1993/94 season, the weighted average of the
current ruling prices for all smallholder tobaccos was in excess of. the 45
percent calculated price. If this situation occurs, it is not corrected by a
reduction in price according to the MOU. There is need to revise the formula
or liberalize the tobacco markets.
52



8.7    Removal of subsidies has increased production costs for smallholder farmers.
Alternative means of providing cheaper fertilizer and seed should be explored.
9.        FUTURE AGRICULTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAMS
9.1    From an agricultural sector perspective, we recommend that future adjustment
programs should concentrate on sectoral issues and not mix sector with macro-
issues and the funding should allow enough time to realize the impact of the
policy changes in the agricultural sector. Financial commitment to support
implementation of these policy reforms should be provided, and not just policy
reforms.
9.2    A more targeted approach to the subsidization of smallholders is needed. A
review of various piece meal poverty alleviation efforts should be made to
come up with a unified approach. Sufficient funds should be made available
for this aspect to alleviate poverty and related problems.
9.3    Solid linkages between sector and local industry will provide a more stable
income base than does the present precarious dependence on crops like tobacco
that have an endangered future due to a reduction in international demand.
For example, much of the abundant fruit production capacity is not linked to
industry and crops like cassava and sorghum are not even officially marketed
although they have a potential in processing for starch and wheat substituting
flour, respectively.
9.4    Greater capitalization of agriculture will be required than is presently the case
and this should include greater investment in improved seed/seedling
propagation (e.g. for high quality fruit growing) and in irrigation to reduce the
impact of the seasonality factor and cyclical incidence of drought condition.
9.5    The potential for increasing off-farm non-agricultural incomes should be
explored in areas where land is becoming a severe constraint.
10.       CONCLUSION
In conclusion, it appears macro-economic reforms do bring short-term gains, but for
long-term gains there is need to concentrate on sectoral reforms and supporting funds
should be provided in aforementioned areas to allow time for long-term impact. Part
1 of the PCR has dwelled very much on the positive side of the program and little
attention has been given to the negative side.
53



PART m: STATISIICAL DIFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank oians/Credit
Loan/Credit li.        |YMain Objectives                          Fsc  Year | Status
SAL I                    Diversify export base: encourage efficient  1981      Closed
(Ln-2026)               import substitution; ensure appropriate                8/12/82
prices and income policy; improve public
sector's financial performance; strengthen
GOV economic planning and monitoring
capability.
SAL U                    Diversify exporl base. encourage efMicient  1984      Closed
(Cr- 1427)              imporl substitution; ensure adequate                   6/30/85
incentives; improve public sector's financial
performance; strengthen policy-making
capability.
SAL ID                   Diversify export base; promole export;      1988      Closed
(Cr- 1644)               strengthen COV policy making capability:              9/30/88
improve performance of Development
Institutions.
SAL Ill Supplemenl       Expand role of private sector in making of  1987      Closed
(Cr-A-9)                 smallholder crops; improve financial                  9/30/88
performance and operational efficiency of
ADMARC; strengthen food security planning
capability.
Induslrial and Trade     Improve policy environment for the          1988      Closed
Policy Adjustment Credit   manufacturing sector to increase efficiency         6/30/93
(Cr- 1920)               of resource use and expand employment
and exports.
54



Table 2. Credit Dala
|fOrigina        edCanceed| Repaid    Outstanding|
|.........  (SDR mMion) .............
IDA Credit No. 2121 MA)             52.6       52.53'/        -          -          52.6
IDA Credit No. 2121-1 U  (Reflow)   4.0         4.0           -          -           4.0
Dutch Grant (Dfls million)          5.0         5.0           -          -           -
UK (L million)                      15.0        10.0          -          -
'/ A balance of about SDR 70.000 remains undisbursed as of April 2. 1993.
Table 3. Credit Timetable
Planned Credit Dates            Revised/Actual Dates
Initiating Memorandum                                           June 22, 1989
Letter of Development Policy                                    March 12. 1990
Negoliations                   October/November 1989            February 22. 1990
Board Approval                 December 1989                    April 3. 1990
Credit Agreement               April 11. 1990                   April 11. 1990
Effectiveness                  April 18. 1990                   April 18. 1990
Second Tranche Release         December 1990                    October 10. 1991
Closing Date                   December 31. 1991                December 31. 1992
PCR                                                             April/May 1993
55



Table 4. Cumulative Credit Disbursement
*................... Tal Year ...................
198/59      19 I/91   1   1991/92            1992/93
................... ___   (SDR'OOO) 
(i)  Planned                     26,000.0       52,600.0      56.600.0"
(ii) Actual                      15.137.0      26.653.0       55.774.4'/      56.530.3"'
(iii) Actual as % of Planned       58.2          50.7           98.5            99.9
u Including IDA reflows of SDR 4 million approved for Malawi in late 1991.
v Aboul SDR 70.000 remained undisbursed as of April 2. 1993.
56



Table 5. Use of Bank Resources
A Bank Staff Inpubs
(staff weeks)
Prep       9.4         53.5                                                     I2.9
Spn],TI                                       24.3      T13.3       17.1--                - 34.7~~~
PCR      I                                                                       Bs        T61
ToW       |94        T5.8         0.1         24.3      13.3                                i 7.1    110.0
Projection
B. Mission Data
| Month/Year           |  No. of      No. o   |   Staff     Date of Report
I                   We~~~~~~Veks    Prons  Weeks I
Preparation        February/March 1989
Appraisal          July 1989                                                  March 6. 1990
Supervision I      May 1990                    1          1           1       June 22. 1990
Supervision 2      September 1990              2          1          2        October 10, 1990
Supervision 3      December 1990               1          2          2        January 28. 1991
Supervision 4      August 1991                n.a        n.a         n.a      Augusl 23. 1991
Supervision 5      November 1991               1          2          2        January 2. 1992
Supervision 6      July 1992                   4V         3           6       August 20. 1992
PCR                April 1993                  2          3          6        May 1993
v Combined with Agricultural MarkeUng and Estate Development Project. Only two weeks attributed to ASAC.
57






MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2121-MAI)
ANNEX 1
MACRO-ECONOMIC REFORMS
59



MALAWI: Agricultual Sector Adjumment Credit (Cr. 2121-MAM)
Annex 1: Macro-economic Reforms
Table 1. Economic Indicators (1989-1993)
1989     1990         1991       1992       1993U
...................    M           ..................
Real GDP Growth                         4.1        4.8        7.8       (7.9)       11.2
Agricultural Growth                     2.4      (0.2)       12.8      (25.7)       40.0
- Smallholder production               0.2       (3.4)       14.8      (34.4)       63.5
Growth of Merchandize Exports         (1.3)       51.4       18.7        7.1         5.3
External Account Deficit               13.0        7.8       12.0       12.2        10.6
(88/89)    (89/90)   (90/91)   (91/92)   (92/93)1v  (93/94)
Fiscal Deficit (as % of GDP)           -9.0       -6.7       -6.5       -5.7       -12.3      -5.71"
Source: Economic Report 1993.
" Estimates.
60



MALAWI: Agriculura Sector AdjusLment Credit (Cr. 2121-MM)
Annex 2: Agricultura Sector Reforms
Table 1. Production and Export of al Malawuan Tobaccos, V86-1991
1986      1987      11988        1989        199O      V191     l
Production (million kg):
Burley                          30.2      36.8       45.5        61.2        64.0       75.0
Flue-cured                      21.0      24.5       20.7        19.8        21.8       25.7
Northem dark-fired              10.9       9.8        7.7         4.6        13.6       15.1
Souther dark-fired               0.5        0.5        0.4        0.3         0.5         0.6
Sun-air cured                    1.0        0.9        0.6        0.4         1.4         2.0
Oriental                         0.1        0.1        0.2        0.3         0.2         0.5
Sales Revenues (MK million):
Burley                          88.0      238.9      238.9      226.5       331.1       511.2
Flue-cured                      63.7      109.6      109.6       99.8       141.4       205.8
Northern dark-fired             24.8      34.1       34.1        32.2        63.7       51.3
Souther dark-fired               0.8        1.2        1.6        1.7         1.6         2.1
Sun-air cured                    1.6        2.4        2.3        1.9         5.3         7.4
Oriental                         0.1        0.1        0.2        0.5         0.4         0.7
Export Earnings (MK million):
Burley                         119.2      187.6     282.1       273.8       484.2
Flue-cured                      89.2      136.9      132.5      152.8       166.1
Northem dark-fired              36.2      48.7       56.4        41.3        80.3
Souther dark-fired               1.2        1.0        1.9        1.0         n.a
Sun-air cured                    2.8        3.1        3.4        2.5         6.7
Oriental                         0.4        0.3        0.5        1.1         0.6
Source: Malawi Tobacco Directory.
61






MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2121-MAI)
ANNEX 2
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR REFORMS
63



MALAWI: Agricultural Sector Adjustmen Credit (Cr. 2121-MAI)
Annex 2: Agricultural Sector Refonna
Table 1. Production and Export of all Malawian Tobaccos, 1986-1991
1986       1987        1988         1989         1990         1991
Production (million kg):
Burley                             30.2       36.8        45.5         61.2         64.0        75.0
Flue-cured                         21.0       24.5        20.7         19.8         21.8        25.7
Northern dark-fired                10.9        9.8         7.7         4.6          13.6         15.1
Souther dark-fired                  0.5         0.5         0.4         0.3          0.5          0.6
Sun-air cured                       1.0         0.9         0.6         0.4           1.4         2.0
Oriental                            0.1         0.1         0.2         0.3          0.2          0.5
Sales Revenues (MK million):
Burley                             88.0       238.9      238.9        226.5        331.1        511.2
Flue-cured                        63.7        109.6      109.6         99.8        141.4        205.8
Northern dark-fired               24.8        34.1        34.1         32.2         63.7        51.3
Souther dark-fired                  0.8         1.2         1.6         1.7           1.6         2.1
Sun-air cured                       1.6         2.4         2.3         1.9          5.3          7.4
Oriental                            0.1         0.1         0.2         0.5          0.4          0.7
Export Earnings (MK million):
Burley                            119.2       187.6      282.1        273.8        484.2
Flue-cured                         89.2       136.9       132.5       152.8        166.1
Northern dark-fired                36.2       48.7        56.4         41.3         80.3
Souther dark-fired                  1.2         1.0         1.9         1.0         n.a
Sun-air cured                       2.8         3.1         3.4         2.5          6.7
Oriental                            0.4         0.3         0.5         1.1          0.6
Source: Malawi Tobacco Directory.
64



MALAWI: Agricultural Sector Adjuamert Credit (Cr. 2121-MAI)
Annex 2: Agricuhural Sector Reforms
Table 2. Smaflholder Burley Tobacco Growesn
No. of Growers                               Production (kg)                  Sales (kg)
Year           Target      Registered    Actual     No. of Clubs    Target       A        ADAC    A. Eo             Ebats        Tobu
1990/91         5,000        8,790        6,970         n.a.       3,000,000   2,186,120    2,186,120      -           -       2,186,120
1991/92        12,000       11,670        7,539          332       3,500,000   2,442,000    393,000    1,165,000    884,000    2,442,000
ce    1992/93         20,256       27,384       28,947        1,125      7,000,000   6,989,650      n.a.        n.a.        *La.        n.L
Source: MOA.



MALAWI: Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 212 1-MAI)
Annex 2: Agricultural Sector Reforms
Table 3. Burley Club Membership, 1992-1993
(by Region)
.. ....... No. of Members ........
Region/ADD       No. Clubs       Women           Men           Total      Average No.
I          ~~~of Members
North:
Karonga              46            108           637           745           16
Mzuzu               110           372          2,155          2,527          23
Central:
Kasungu             233           478          5,307          5,785          25
Salima               53           174            813           987           19
Lilongwe            232           841          4,770          5,611          24
South:
Liwonde             251          1,109         5,268          6,377          25
Blantyre            150           355          5,071          5,426          36
Ngabu                50           226           1,263         1,489          30
Total:              1,125         3,663         25,284        28,947           26
Source: MOA Department of Extension and Training.
66



MALAWI: AgwkumI Setow Adjuduw_ Crsd& (Cc. 2121-MA)
Amux 2: A   sikum1 Seew Rtefon
Tabe 4. Siallholder Produdion ad Hedanag: Main and Tobwco
Average              1988189               1989/90              1990/91             1991/92u              1992/93'
1983/84-1987/88
Crops           Area      Product    Area      Product    Area      Product    Area      Product    Area       Product    Ara | Product
(O0O'ha)   ('000 t)  (OOO'ha)   ('000 t)   (OO'ha)   ('000 t)  (OOO'ha)   ('000 t)   (OO'ha)   ('000 t)  (0OO'ha)   ('000 t)
Maize:
- Local         1,098      1,115     1,160      1,221      1,184      963       1,194      1,041     1,132      373       1,006       989
- Composite       20         33         25        44         25        35         19         27        13         5          4          6
- Hybrid          64        187         86       245        135        345       179        521       217       283         327      1,014
Total:          1,182      1,335     1,271      1,510      1,344     1,343      1,392      1,589     1,362      661       1,338      2,009
Tobacco:
- NDDF            29         13         17         6         24         11        26         14        25         14         19        10
- SDDP             3          1          1         1          1         1          1        ...         1        ...         I          I
- Sun-air          4          1         2          1          5         2          4          2         3        ...         2          1
- Orienal          1. I                  I                    I                    I                             ...         2          1
- Burley         ...        ...                  ...        ...        ... ...     I          1         2          3        20         21
Total:            37         16         21         8         31         14        33         18        32         17        44         34
Source: MOA.
Drougt yew.
M Second crop atimua.



mALAWI: Agrcullural S.ct AMjuaui Ciudit (Cr. 2121-MAI)
Annex 2. Aguiculhuri Seer Rtubm
Table S. Saibder Markt OptioM for 1M2/93
Total Allocation               Selling Directly to Auction Floors         Not Selling Direty to Auction Floors
Region   ADD         I Clubs | Quota (kg) C l u         Clubs |  %   | Quota (kg) | Total Quota   # Clubs |% b       Quota (kg)      Total
I     I                         I      I             I |  ()                I        I            I   Quota
Karongp        46        220,000       3       40        4      196,150         3           6        3        23,850        0.3
Mzuzu         110        680,000      10       110      12      680,000         10          0        0             0        0.3
Nonh:                   156         90,000     13       IS0       16      876,150        13           6        3        23,850       0.3
Kasungu       233       1,414,000     20      211       23     1,242,400        18         22        11       171,600        2
Lilongwe      232       1,092,000     16      216       24      910,950         13         16        8        181,050        3
00               Salim&         53        288,000       4       37        4      206,700         3           16       8        81,300          I
Central:                Sig      2,794,000     40       464      51    2,360,050         34          54       26       433,950         6
Liwonde       251       1,898,000     27      251       27     1,898,000        27          0        0             0         0
Blantyre      150       1,161,000     17       46        5      626,540         9          104       50       534,460         8
Ngabu          50        249,000       4        5        1       27,150        0.4         45        22       221,850         3
South:                  451      3,308,000     47       302      33    2,551,690         36         149       71       756,310        11
Total:                1,125      7,002,000    100       916      100    5,787,890        83         209      100      1,214,110       17
Sourwi: Dqeaument of Agriculal Extenion and Training, Miuatzy of Agriculture, Apnl 22, 1993.



MALAWI: Agncultual Sector Adjusatmsv Cedi (Cr. 2121-MAI)
Annx 2: Agncultural sector Reforms
Table 6. World Burley Tobacco Production
l  i .....* Area (ha) .........  ......     . Production (tons) ......
1990       1991        1992         1990       1991        1992
N. America               120,715     137,132     150,314     289,231       321      326,700
S. America                57,397     67,491      77,426       94,224    103,187     136,933
C. America                8,237       8,033       11,018      14,281     13,967      20,656
EC 12                     31,727     31,298       31,200      84,998     90,499      86,710
Other W. Europe             671         633         628        1,265      1,365       1,320
E. Europe                 13,454     12,517       12,050      16,935     19,065      16,695
N. Africa                 11,500      11,173      11,760      13,741     12,739      13,259
Malawi                    53,000     60,000      75,000       64,019     75,013      85,000
Zimbabwe                   3,267      4,375       5,600        5,893      7,893      10,200
Sub-Saharan Africa        61,576     69,701       85,925      74,807     87,761     100,043
Asia                      68,829     80,323      93,859      134,398    157,319     179,297
M. East                    1,525      1,827       1,960        3,611      4,141       4,080
Oceania                      17          17          17          30         30          30
Other                       636         726         706         868        810         803
Total:                   377,359     421,961     477,953     730,480    814,889     888,926
Malawi as a % of Total    14.04       14.22       15.69        8.76       9.21       9.56
Source: MOA.
69



MALAWI: Ascukuaui Sector AdjuAmui Credit (Cr. 212 1-MAI)
Anmx 2: Ariculaual Sector Rifrs
Tabl 7. Burley Quota AHlocations, Actual and Projected
Estate Quota        I     Snallholder Quota
Year                            ................ I    (million kg) .
1984/85 (marketed)                         30.4                          0
1985/86 (marketed)                         30.2                          0
1986/87 (marketed)                         36.8                          0
1987/88 (actual)                           56.9                          0
1988/89 (actual)                           64.7                          0
1989/90 (actl)                             72.4                          0
1990/91 (actual)                           102.4                         3.0
1991/92 (estimated)                       118.2                          3.5
1992/93 (projected)                        118.9                         7.0
1993/94 (projected)                                                      8.5
1994/95 (projected                                                       9.2
1995/96 (projected)                                                     10.7
Source: MOA and USAID ASAP PAAD, p.4.
70



MALAWI: Aricuuui Seckow Adjuwm Cmd (Cr. 2121-MAN)
Anmx 2: Aricukural Swetor Rsfa.
Table 8. Smaliholder Burley Tobaeco Growers
A. Weighted Average Price for Burley
| Season              |      Production"           Auction Floor Price    Value of Production
(tons)                (MK/kg)                (14K million)
1990/91                         2,186                    6.87                    15.0
1991/92                         2,440                    6.52                    15.9
1992/93                         7,000                    4.52                    31.6
Total:                          11,626                   5.38                    62.5
(w. av. price)
B. Estimated Gross Revenue for Smalholder Burley Growern
(19M93)
Burley Production (tons)'/                               7,000
No. of Smallholder Growers'/                            29,000
Production/Smallholder (kg)                                241
W. Average Auction Floor Price (MK/kg)"                   5.38
Total Gross Revenue (MK million)                          37.7
First ADMARC Payment (MK million)"                        17.0
Second ADMARC Payment (MK million)-                        4.0
Total Gross Revenue to Smallholders (MK million)          21.0
Gross Revenue for Smalliolder (MK)                         724
Actual Price Obtained by Smallholders (MK/kg)          3.0 (or 56% of w. av. auction floor price)
See Table 2.
See calculation above.
45 % of Total Gross Revenue.
65 % of Net Profit of ADMARC (estimated).
71



MAIAWI: Ag_Irumu Sewor AdjuNmts Cmdi (Cr. 2121-MAM)
Ax 2: AuiAa   Sector Refoia
Tabk 9. Estimaite Border Prices for Selected Crops (1992)
M aim           Groundnuts   |      Cotton
........              (USS/tons) .
World market price: 1992M                 104                75              1,280
Freight and insurance                     20                 20                20
Port charges Durban                       25                 25                 25
Cif Durban                                149               120              1,325
Transport to Lilongwe                     175               175                175
Cif Lilongwe                             324                295              1,500
................ (MK/ton)" .
Cif Lilongwe                            1,192              1,086             5,520
Other chargee                             60                 54                276
Import parity price                     1,252              1,140             5,796
Transport to factory                     n.a                n.a                140
Cost ex factory                          n.a.              n.a.              5,936
Factory cost (20%)                       n.a                n.a              1,187
Economic value before factory            n.a                n.a              4,749
Yield cotton fiber/grain                 na                 n.a               35%
Parity price of 350 kg of fibor          n.a                n.a              1,662
By-product (110 kg of oil)               n.a                n.a                142
By-product (380 kg of cake)              n.a                n.a                379
Economic value of seed cotton            n.a                n.a              2,183
Transport to farm                         140               140                140
Economic price farmgate (MK/ton)        1,112              1,000             2,043
Economic price farnmgto (tlUg            111                100                204
Producer price farmpto (t/kaj             43                  91'              92
u   World Bank commodity price projections.
   USS 1 = MK 3.68 (1992).
"   Estimatd at 5 %.
Q Chalimbana variety (avege grade GDA and GDX).
72



MALAWI: ASriculauar Sector Adjua  Cm  (Cr. 2121-MM
Annx 2: Agricul   or S beim=
Table 10. Investrnents Transferred from ADMARC
Investments in Shares                                           Last Accounts
Auction Holdings Limited                                           31/12/89
Central Tobacco Properties Limited                                 31/12/89
Cold Storage Company Limited                                       31/12/89
Cory Mann George (Malawi) Limited                                  30/06/89
Cotton Ginners Limited - ordinary shares                           31/05/89
Cotton Ginners Limited - preference shares                         31/05/89
David Whitehead and Sons (Malawi) Limited                          30109/89
Dwangwa Sugar Corporation Limited                                  31/03/90
Finance Corporation of Malawi Limited                              31/09/89
Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited                  31112/89
Malawi Tea Factory Company Limited                                 30/06/89
Manica Freight Services (Malawi) Limited                           30/06/89
National Bank of Malawi                                            31/12/89
National Seed Company of Malawi Limited                            31/05/89
Optichem (Malawi) Limited                                          31/12/89
Stagecoach Malawi Limited                                          01/04/90
Sugar Corporation of Malawi Limited                                31/03/90
Source: ADMARC, 1993.
73



MALAwI: ASrukunad S3er Adjugmenm CrmdM (Cr. 2121-MA!)
Ann.x 2: Agriukural Secto Refonr
Table 11. Smnlholder Fertilizer Prices and Subsidies 1991/92 and 1992/93
1|91/92 Price    1991/92 Subsidy      1M92/93 Price    1992/93 Subsidy
(MKISO kg)            (%)            (MK/50 kg)             (%)
S/A                     42.00                6                49.80               0.0
CAN                     48.00                7                69.40               0.0
23:21:0+4S              50.00               20                70.00              15.3
Urea                    45.00               23                60.80              15.5
DAP                     49.00               18                66.15              17.0
Source: MOA.
74



MALAWI: Agriculntral SeXo Adjumenu. Credui (Cr. 2121-MAI)
Ainex 2: Agriullura Secew Rfonfn
Tbk 12. Sniallhder Fertiliur Reqirement, Distribution and SW" I/WM1992E3
S/A                                         CAN                                       23:21:0+4S
Season        Required    Received      S         Stocks   Requir     e Reeved     Sales     Stocks    Required    Received      S         St
..............................    .......................    (tons). ... .............(t).. ...............................
1988/89        3,953       6,309      5,977       332     28,803      28,060     27,817       243        19,064     22,063     21,688       375
1989/90        4,462       2,943      2,256       687     34,222      34,419     32,438      1,981      20,623      25,207     24,621       586
1990/91        6,838       6,165      2,945     3,220     45,618      34,567     32,611      1,956      38,610      32,664     29,312      3,352
1991/92        4,240       4,510      3,464     1,046     31,114      38,305     34,344      3,961      39,261      36,509     32,999      3,510
1992193        3,150       3,267      2,894       373     40,350      33,434     29,933      3,501      40,950      37,032     33,266      3,766



MALAWI: Agricultural Sector Adjuian Credit (Cr. 2121-MAI)
Annex 2: Agricultural Sector Refonui
Table 12 (continued)
S/A                                       CAN                                     23:21:0+4S
Season       Required I Received I Sales  I Stocks   Required I Received |Sales         Stocks    Required I Received    SSaes     Stocks
l ~~~...............................    .................... .... O...(ons)    ............................                    .....
Urea                                      DAP                                        Total
1988/89       29,898     25,814    23,976     1,838    14,612      9,238      7,953      1,285     96,330     91,484     87,411     4,073
_     1989/90       48,817     46,559    28,864    17,695    19,830      12,154     10,926     1,228     127,954    121,282    99,105    22,177
1990/91       48,507     40,383    31,627     8,756    21,850     19,372     16,399     2,973     161,423    133,151    112,894    20,257
1991/92       46,162     44,855    38,621     6,234    22,118     25,228     19,040     6,188     142,895    149,407    128,468    20,939
1992/93       61,920     57,480    45,957    11,523    30,010     32,244     25,933     6,311     176,380    163,457    137,983    25,474
Source: MOA - ADMARC.
Note:      1.      1992/93 figures are up to 26 Febnaruy 1993.
2.     23:21:0+4S figures for 1987/88 and 1988/89 ae for 20:20:0.



MA.LAWI: Apkuwual S.ea Mjutmnu Can& (cr. 2121-MAI)
Armix 2: Agifouihal Swtw Rabin
Tale 13. SFFRFM  Fertilaw Imnporis 1967=8 - 1992/93
1987/88     198889      1989/90    1990/91       1991/92      1992/93
.  .   .   .    .   .   .*  (tons)    .........................
S/A                8,500         -          3,000       3,000        3,000         -
CAN                30,000      20,000      41,300      20,000       31.500       25,000
20:20:0            20,000        -            -           -           -            -
23:21:0+4S         5,000       15,000       32,200     20,000       27,500       18,751
Urea               9,000        8,000      40,000      15,000        9,000       55,000
DAP                5,000        5,000       9,200      18,000       24,000       37,500
Total:             77,500      48,000      125,700     76,000       95,000      136,;1
Sorm: Minisy of A4picultue.
Note.  1. lhe Mmotliw nketing season is frem  1 April - 31 Mauch.
2. lbe 1992193 figure for 23:21:0+45 inchmdes S00 tos sourced
locally from OptichenL



MALAWI: Agicuumi Seaw Ad#mmam _ Cmd (Cr. 2121-hAI)
Ainx 2: Aginhau S..cI Rorm.
Table 14. National Total Ferlilizer Dand and Supply Plan 1"3/94
Fertilizer Type  National      National     National     SFFRFM       Optichen      Norsk      ADMARC        Total        Balance
Smaliholder     Estate       Total       Supply        Supply       Hydro       Supply      Supply
Denand       Demand       Demnand                                 Supply
........................................... (tons) ..........................................
Major Grades:
S/A                 3,470        2,100        5,570        3,600         1,600         -           -          5,200          -370
CAN                42,950       14,700       57,650        34,000       10,800       12,250      5,000       62,050        +4,400
23:21:0:4S         42,719        5,250       47,969        46,000         -          5,000         -         47,250          -719
Urea               60,900        8,600       69,500        42,000        1,350       3,900         -         51,000       -18,509
DAP                37,035        1,600       38,635        40,000         150                -               40,150        +1,515
Total:            187,074       32,250      219,324       165,600       13,900       21,150      S,000      205,650       -13,674
Source: MOA.
Note:  1. Estate demand is asuned to be 5SX up on 1992/93 ate consumption fhom Table 12.
2. Norsk Hydro Urea includes boron.



MALAWI: Agriculturl Sector Adjumsen Credit (Cr. 2121-MA)
Anx 2: ASricultul Sctor Refom
Table 15. Future National Fertilizer Requirenent
Fertilizer Type         1993/94       1994/9S   j   1995/96   |   1996/97   | 199798
Smallholder Sector:
S/A                      3,470         3,500          3,500         3,500          3,500
CAN                     42,950        43,000         43,000        43,000         43,000
23:21:0+4S              42,719        43,000         43,000         43,000        43,000
Urea                    60,900        63,945         67.140         70,500        74,025
DAP                     37,035        38,890         40,830         42,870        45,015
Sub-otal:             187.074       192,335        197,470        202,870       208,540
Estate Sector.
S/A                      2,100         2,205          2,315         2,430          2,550
CAN                     14,700        15,435         16,200         17,020        17,870
23:21:0+4S               5,250         5,515          5,790         6,080          6,380
Urea                     8,600         9,030          9,480         9,960         10,455
DAP                      1,600         1,680          1,765          1,850         1,945
Sub-total:             32,250        33,865         35,550        37,340         39,200
Total:                219,324       226,200        233,020        240,210       247,740
Source:    MOA.
Notes:    1.      SraLlholder fertilizer demand projections assume no increse for low analysis fertlizers beyond 1993/94 and a 5%
increase per annum for high analysis fertilizers.
2.     Estate fertilizer demand projections based on 1992/93 estimad consumption assuming 5 % increase per annum.
79






MALAWI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2121-MAT)
ANNEX 3
POLICY AGENDA ACTION MATRIX
81



Policy Issues and Objectives      |Actions to be Taken Under ASAC    Action Taken
1. Extemal Sector
To improve efficiency of        Maintaining exchange rate at levels   Implemented.
resources allocation and increase   satisfactory to IDA.
exports through: (a) ensuring
appropriate exchange rate; (b)  Implementing the fourth stage of   Implemented.
liberalizing imports; and (c)   import liberalization covering non-
improving export incentives.   industrial equipment and certain
consumer products for which there is
domestic competition.
Removing the requirement of prior    Implemented.
approval of foreign exchange for all
imports, except for a short list of
items satisfactory to IDA.
Reviewing tariff structure and reduce Implemented.
levels.
Developing and initiating          Implemented.
implementation of a more effective
duty drawback system for exports.
2. Pubic Finance
To contain inflation, improve   Maintaining fiscal deficit for FY  Implemented.
efficiency in the use of public  90/91 at a level satisfactory to IDA
resources, ease pressure on the  and preparing PSIP for 1990/91-
balance of payments, and release   1993/94 satisfactory to IDA.
resources to the private sector
through: (a) restraining fiscal  Completing review.                Report not available.
deficits; (b) improving the quality
of Public Sector investment     Beginning implementation of        (see above).
Program (PSIP); (c) restructuring   recommendations.
agricultural expenditure; (d)
reducing fertilizer subsidies; and    Maintaining economic rate of  Implemented.
(e) reforming the tax system.   fertilizer subsidies at a level not
exceeding 30% and total sabsidy
gubventions at not more than 2 % of
total Government expenditures in
1990/91.
82



MALAWI: Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2121-MAI)
Annex 3: Policy Agenda Action Matrix (State of Iwplementaxion)
Policy Issues and Objectives       Actions to be Taken Under ASAC    Action Taken
Reducing economic rate of fertilizer   Implemented.
subsidies to levels not exceeding
25% in 1991/92, and 20% in
1992/93, and total subsidy
subventions to not more than 1.6%
of total Government expenditures in
1991/92, and 1.3% in 1992/93.
Revising income tax structure,
including rates and depreciation  Implemented.
policy.
3. Monetary Policy
To contain inflation through   Presenting the revised Banking Act   Implemented.
improving monetary management;  to Parliament.
and to enhance efficiency of the
financial system through
introduction of a more market
based monetary and credit
system.
4. Agriculture
a) Output Prices. To increase      Gazetting a two-payment price      Implemented.
production and rural incomes.  system for smallholder tobacco, with
pre-planting price of not less than
45% of a rolling 3 years average of
auction prices, and a second payment
at the end of the marketing season.
Continuing annual price review and
submitting the recommendations of    Implemented.
the review to the Bank for comments
at least 21 days before the
announcement of revised prices.
b) Output Marketing and Input      Increasing the margin provided at  Implemented.
Distribution. To improve        ADMARC receiving markets to at
efficiency through expanding the   least 20 %; increasing the number of
role of the private sector.     receiving markets to 35.
83



MALAWI: Agricultural Sector Adjugtmert Credit (Cr. 2121-MAI)
Annex 3: Policy Agerda Action Matrix (State of Implementation)
Policy Issues and Objectives        Actions to be Taken Under ASAC    Action Taken
Differentiating fertilizer prices to  Not implemented.
provide a trading margin of at least
5 % for a minimum of 200 kg
purchased from ADMARC receiving
markets; and allowing bonafide
groups of smallholders (or agents
appointed by such groups or by
ADMARC) to buy fertilizers at the
differentiated price for their own use
or for selling to other smallholders.
Carrying out a study to identify ways
to facilitate participation by the  Not carried out.
private sector in seed cotton
marketing.
Allowing private sector's
participation in seed cotton       Implemented.
marketing.
c) Fertilizer Procurement and       Continuing preparation of a rolling    Implemented.
Financing. To ensure adequate    5-year fertilizer requirement
and timely supply of fertilizers.    projections.
Introducing quarterly payments of  Implemented.
budgetary subventions to SFFRFM
for fertilizer subsidies due from the
Government.
Completing and submitting to IDA   Implemented.
for review a study to improve the
management of SFFRFM as may be
necessary.
d) Rationalization of ADMARC        Continuing ADMARC's divestiture   Implemented.
Funding and Functions.          program.
Improve ADMARC's ability to
carry out price stabilization   Implementing agreement between      MOU only signed in
functions by continuing its     ADMARC and Government under         Dec. 1993,
divestiture program relieving it    which the Government will take over  implementation
the responsibility for financing  the financing of ADMARC's         progress thus
non-commercial activities, and  functions related to Government's   uncertain.
ensuring appropriate prices     development and food security
policy.                         objectives.
84



MALAWI: Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2121-MAI)
Annex 3: Policy Agenda Action Matrix (StAte of Implernentafion)
Policy Issues and Objtctives      | Actions to be Taken Under ASAC  |Action Taken
Setting prices of crops handled by  To be verified on the
ADMARC so that ADMARC's            basis of results for a 3-
individual crop accounts at least  year period.
breaks even on average over a
period of three years.
Implementing a commission agent    Not implemented
system for ADMARC market centers  because of lack of
that are financially inviable due to    interest on the part of
low throughput and which can be    private traders.
made financially viable through such
a system.
e) Maize Research Focus. Increase   Shifting maize research focus and  Implemented.
smallholder productivity, improve   budget and implementing the 5-year
food security and release land for  action plan to develop high yielding
non-food crops.                  flint maize.
f) Cash Crop Allocation. To         Amending the tobacco growing and    Implemented.
increase smallholder productivity   selling regulations to allow
and cash incomes.                smalhlolders to grow burley tobacco
under customary land tenure.
Licensing at least 5,000 smallholders  Implemented.
to grow burley tobacco in areas
where at least 75 % of the farmers
have land of less than 1 ha.
Reaching agreement with IDA on the
marketing system for smallholder   Implemented.
tobacco.
g) Land Allocation and Use. To      Amending Land Act to halt transfer   Implemented (but with
slow down decline of farm sizes    of land from customary areas to  caveats).
in smallholder areas and to     estates, except in areas of low
increase efficiency of land use  population density and experimental
among estates.                   farms beneficial to smallholders; and
cases involving conversion of
established customary rights to
formal rights.
85



MALAWI: Agriculturl Sector Adjustmnent Credit (Cr. 2121-MAD
Annex 3: Policy Agenda Action Matrix (State of Implerentation)
Policy Issues and Objectives          Actions to be Taken Under ASAC    Action Taken
Amending Land Act to enable          Implemented.
adjustment of estate land lease rent
at intervals of not more than 3 years.
Announcing, through the official
Giazette, an increased estate land   Implemented.
lease rent of up to at least MK 20/ha
to be effective in April 1991.
Implementing a system to collect
estate land lease rents through      Implemented.
tobacco auction.
Sending bills to estates for the
payment of the increase rent of MK    Implemented.
20/ha with effect from April 1991.
Undertaking a study to establish a
basis for differentiating estate land  Not carried out.
lease rent according to land quality.
Introducing differentiated estate land
rents at a weighted average at least
equal to the 1986 level in real terms.  Not implemented.
Establishing estate extension service
as an autonomous trust body under
the auspices of Tobacco Association
of Malawi.                           Implemented.
h) Establishing of Woodlots. To       Strengthening inspectorate staff of   Not implemented.
protect environment.              Department of Lands to enforce
establishment of woodlots by estate,
except in cases where estates are
able to obtain fuelwood from forest
plantations and private sources.
86



MALAWI: Agriculturml Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2121-MAl)
Annex 3: Policy Agenda Action Matrix (State of Implemnentation)
Policy Issues and Objectives        Actions to be Taken Under ASAC    Action Taken
i) Food Security. To improve        Initiating implementation of the   Implemented.
nutritional and health standards.    UNDP-funded pilot schemes to best
ways of targeting fertilizer subsidies
and agricultural credit to the food
deficit household; and locating the
growing of burley tobacco by
smallholders in areas where at least
75 % of farm holdings are less than
1.0 ha.
Ensuring a higher rate of subsidy on   Implemented.
high analysis than on low analysis
fertilizers.
Packaging at least 50% of fertilizer   Implemented.
supplied by SFFRFM in bags of not
more than 25 kg.
Improve operational guidelines for    Implemented.
SGR.
j) Monitoring Social Inpact of      Strengthening capacity to monitor   Implemented.
Adjustment. To analyze poverty   and analyze impact of adjustment
issues and assess ways to alleviate  program on the poor.
adverse impact of adjustment
program on the poor.            Undertaking an integrated household   Being carried out.
socio-economic survey and studies
on poverty issues, including
comparative assessment of costs and
benefits of fertilizer and direct
consumer subsidies for maize.
87



MALAWI: Agriculturml Sector Adjusimeot Credit (Cr. 2121-MAM)
Annex 3: Policy Agenda Action Matrix (State of Implementation)
PROJECT DATA SHEET
1DUt:
Date: 24th March 1994
Name: Vanessa Scarborough
0.1
Report No:         _        Country/FAO Code:          Financing Institutions:     Co t: SDR 56.6 million
88/93 CP-MLW 23 PCR               MLW 456                       IDA             F
TITLE: MALAWI: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Date:  21 March 1994        Sector: Sectoral Adjustment Credit                    Type: PCR
Syst.Code:                                                                        Language:    English
MISSION MEMBERS: V. SCARBOROUGH I Task Manager), R. SUPPA (Leader), C.G. RAMASUBBU and G.
ROZELL (consultants)
Date of Field Visit:    April 1993
Main Features:
Objectives:    To support the Government's ongoing adjustment program to achieve sustainable growth, food
security and reduce poverty.
Components:  - Macro-Economic Reforms
- Agricultural Sector Reforms
Impact:       Will be clear only in the medium-term. At macro-economic level, the stabilization actions
implemented in 1990 appear to have led to improvement in 1991 in terms of increased GDP,
agricultural production and export. The prospects for the following period remained difficult despite
the promising agricultural harvest forecast for 1993. In the agricultural sector significant results
include the production of burley tobacco for the first time by smallholders; the reduction of fertilizer
subsidies; better input distribution and supply; better crop marketing services; introduction of flint
hybrid maize varieties.
Lessons Learned:                                                                  Ref.       Pace No.:
1.     More preparatory work to reach commitment by and full agreement between
implementing agencies. More coordination during implementation.
2.    Need to address root causes of problems and constraints, in particular those
pertaining to market distortions.
3.     Expand smallholder burley tobacco production in relation to export possibilities.
4.     Government to coordinate all pilot targetted interventions to tockle the problem
of rural poverty.
KEY-WORDS:
88



