Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repoit No. P-5189-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTFRNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 52.6 MILLION (US$70.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJ'JSTMENT PROGRAM
MARCH 6, 1990
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be d!sclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit Malawi Kwacha (MK)
MK/US$
1985                      1.75
1986                      1.86
1987                      2.21
1988                      2.56
1989                      2.76
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF      =  African Development Fund
ADMARC   = Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
ASAC     =  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
CIMMYT   =  International Center for Maize anca Wheat Improvement
DEVPOL   =  Statement of Development Policies
DRCs     =  Departmental Recurrent Charges
DSB      =  Department of Statutory Bodies
EEC      =  European Economic Community
EP & D   =  Economic Planning and Development
ESAF     =  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
IFAD     =  International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF      =  International Monetary Fund
ITPAC    =  Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit
KfW      =  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MDC      =  Malawi Development Ccrporation
NSO      =  National Statistics Office
ODA      =  Overseas Development Administration of the United Kingdom
OECF     =  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PEs      =  Personnel Emoluments
PFP      =  Policy Framework Paper
PHL      =  Press Holidays Ltd.
PSIP     =  Public Sector Investment Program
RBM      =  Reserve Bank of Malawi
SFFRFM   =  Smallholder Farmers Fertilizer Revolving Fund of Malawi
SOEs     =  Statement of Expenditures
USAID    =  United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



MALAVI                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMFNT PROGRAM
Table of Contents
Paae
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY                                                i-iii
PART l:         THE ECONOMY ........ ...........                             1
A.  Special Country Features .........................    1
B.  Past Adjuetment Programs and Economic Performance    2
C.  Overall Performance of Past Adjustment Programs..    6
PART II:        COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK GROUP OPERATIONS    7
A.  The Government's Development Objectives and
Strategy .....               .....         .          7
B.  Country Assistance Strategy      .     .                 8
C.  Bank Group Lending Operations            . . .    11
D.  Creditworthiness .................................      12
E.  Macroeconomic Projections and External Financing
Requirements ..       . ..............................  12
F.  Aid Coordination .      . ...............................   13
G.  Collaboration with IMF .      . .........................  14
PART III:       THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ......................              .........  14
A.  Salient Features .................................   14
B. Sectoral Performance                . . .    15
C.  Main Constraints and Prospects .................. .     16
D.  Agriculture Sector Assistance Strategy         ..    18
PART IV:        THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM        . .    19
A.  Overall Objectives and Expected Outcomes .........  19
B.  Continuation and Expansion of Macroeconomic
Policies .......................................  21
C.  Product Pricing and Marketing Policies ...........  22
D.  Input Pricing and Marketing Policies .............  25
E.  Rationalizing ADMARC Financing and Functions .....  29
F.  Shifting Smallholder Research Policy and
Establishing Extension Services for Estates ....   30
G.  Introducing New Cash Crops among Smallholders ....   32
H.  Halting Transfer of Land from Smallholders, and
Intensifying Land Use in Estates ...............  32
I.  Prioritizing Agricultural Expenditures ...........  34
J.  Reducing Food Insecurity among the Poor ..........  35
K.  Monitoring Poverty Impact of Adjustment Program..   36
This document has a restricted distribution and msy be used by recipients only ;.n the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART V:        THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (ASAC) .....   36
A.  Objectives and Rationale for IDA Involvement .....   36
B. Financing Plan .. ................................ .  37
C.  Procurement, Disbursement, Accounts and Audit ....   38
D. Monitoring and Tranche Release ...................  39
E. Impact and Risks ............................. . .  41
PART VI:       RECOMMENDATION        .......................................  44
Supporting Tables and Annexes
Annex 1:       Social and Economic Data
Annex 2:       Status of Bank Operations
Annex 3:       Past Structural Adjustment Operations
Annex 4:       Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Annex 5:       Government Letter of Development Policy
Annex 6:       Policy Agenda Action Matrix



MA,WAI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMIRY
Borrower:      Republic of Malawi
Beneficiary:   Republic of Malawi
Amount:         IDA:           SDR 52.6 million (US$70.0 million
equivalent)
Netherlands:   DFL 10 million (US$5 million equivalent)
The operation is supported under the Special Program of
Assistance to Low-Income Debt-Distressed Countries in Sub-
Saharan Africa. In addition to the cofinancing identified
above, interest to participate in the financing of this
program has been expressed by: United Kingdom,LSTG 10
million (US$16.5 million), United States (US$25.0 million),
Federal Republic of Germany (amount not indicated), and the
European Economic Community (amount not indicated). The
Government of Japan has been approached to participate with
US$30 million equivalent.
Term:          Standard IDA terms; 40-year maturity with a 10-year grace
period.
Description:   The primary objective of the proposed Credit is to support
the Government's ongoing adjustment program to achiere
sustainable growth, food security, and reduce poverty. To
these ends, the proposed Credit will support measures to
continue and deepen ongoing macroeconomic and sectoral
reforms and to initiate new policy changes aimed at
reducing poverty through agricultural growth.
Past adjustment operations helped to improve external and
internal balances. To maintain the competitiveness of
exports, 85? of which are agricultural, and to improve
efficiency in the industrial sector, about two-thirds of
which is agro-based, the Credit will continue reforms to
maintain a flexible exchange rate policy, improve export
incentives, and expand trade liberalization. The flexible
exchange rate policy will be complemented by measures to:
(a) keep the fiscal deficit at levels that can be financed
largely with concessional external resources; (b) reduce
fertilizer subsidies; (c) focus the Public Sector
Investment Program on areas of high priority and returns;
and (d) implement a revised Banking Act to enhance
monetary management and introduce a more market-based
monetary and credit system. The Credit will also continue



- ii -
reforms to ensure adequate producer incentives and improve
marketing efficiency, by expanding the role of the private
sector, for smallholder agriculture.
Because of structural constraints in agriculture, past
adjustment operations have not succeeded in eliciting a
sustainable supply response necessary to raise per capita
incomes and eliminate the need for balance nf payments
support. These constraints are due to policies which have
resulted in inappropriate technological packages for maize,
limited fertilizer use, a narrow range of cash crops among
smallholders, and underutilization of land in estates.
Consequently, productivity has remained very low,
particularly among smallholders, with the result that half
of the population lives in absolute poverty.
The proposed Credit will support new policy changes to
address the key structural constraints in agriculture by:
(a) shifting the research policy and budget to develop
high-yielding maize varieties that most of the smallholders
will find appropriate to grow; (b) changing laws to allow
smallholters to grow high-value cash crops, burley tobacco,
and increase prices of smallholder tobacco; (c) halting the
transfer of land from smallholder areas to estates; (d)
improving fertilizer use and distribution efficiency,
particularly through liberalizing the distribution system
and improving the financial management and funding of the
Smallholder Farmers Fertilizer Revolving Fund of Malawi
(SFFRFM); and (e) improving land use efficiency in estates
through increasing land lease rents to better reflect land
scarcity, adjusting the rents more frequently, improving
rent collection, and establishing extension services for
estates.
The Credit will also support further new initiatives to:
(a) improve efficiency in agricultural public expenditures
through reviewing arLd restructuring them to ensure
consistency with sectoral priorities and cost-
effectiveness; (b) implement pilot schemes to develop ways
of targeting fertilizer subsidies and credit to the poor;
and (c) strengthen the Government's capability to monitor
and redress the impact of the adjustment program on the
poor.
Benefits:       The reforms will generate significant efficiency gains
across all the productive sectors and will enhance the
competitiveness of agricultural and other exports.
Considerable increase in agricultural productivity is
likely to result from the policies to shift the focus of
maize research, to improve availability of fertilizers, and
to promote efficient land use among estates. Increased
food crop yields among smallholders would release land for



- iii -
cash and export crops. Reforms to increase smallholder
tobacco prices and allow smallholders to grow burley
tobacco would increase rural cash- incomes and expand
monetization of smallholder agriculture, thereby raising
purchasing power for domestic goods and services. The
proposed operation would have a positive impact on the
environment by increasing crop yields through developing
high-yielding flint maize and expanding fertilizer use,
thus reducing population pressure on land; and by enforcing
the lease covenant requiring estates to establish woodlots.
Risks:          Strong opposition may be encountered from estates, many of
which are owned by politically influential farmers, against
adjustment of estate land rents and allowing smallholders to
produce burley tobacco. Concern with the poverty issue
aueong Malawian authorities is relatively recent and
inadequate appreciation of the poverty situation in the
country may dilute efforts to implemen" reforms designed to
benefit mainly the rural poor. These risks will be
minimized by the fact that most of the politically difficult
reforms were taken before Board Presentation; others will be
conditions of the second tranche. Development of high-
yielding maize acceptable to most of the farmers is subject
to uncertainties common to any research activity.
Recurrence of external shocks, ouch as prolonged droughts
and decline in export prices, may impair growth and reduce
the expected benefits, thus weakening Government's
commitment to continue with the reform program.
Estimated
Disbursements: In view of high import demand projected to. arise from
continuation of trade liberalization reforms, the proposed
Credit would provide quick-disbursing funds for balance of
payments support, except an amount of SDR 565,000 earmarked
for consultancy services. The Credit proceeds for the
balance of payments support would be disbursed in two
tranches, one for SDR 26.035 million and the second for SDR
26.00 million. The first tranche would be available for
disbursement upon Credit effectiveness; the second would be
released upon satisfactory fulfillment of specified
conditions, expected in December 1990. The Credit proceeds
for consultancy services would be disbursed over a period of
eighteen months.
Appraisal
Report:         This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal Report.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO MALAWT
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
IDA Credit of SDR 52.6 million (US$70.0 million equivalent) to Malawi for
an agricultural sector adjustment program. The program ts described in the
Letter of Development Policy from the Government of Malawi (Annex 5). The
Credit will be on standard terms, with a 40-yeaz maturity. The
Netherlands, United Kingdom, United States, Federal Republic of Germany,
and European Economic Community have expressed interest to participate in
tne financing of this program. The Government of Japan has been approached
to participate in co-financing the program.
2.        A detailed analysis of the Malawian economy up to 1985 can be
found in the Country Economic Memorandum entitled 'Malawi Economic
Recovery: Resource and Policy Needs" (Report No. 5801-MAI), which was
circulated to the Executive Directors in October 1985. A second-year
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) was reviewed by the Committee of the Whole in
August 1989. A Country Economic Memorandum will be forthcoming shortly and
its findings are incorporated in this report. Basic country economic and
social data are given in Annex 1.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
A. Special Country Features
3.        Malawi's economy is severely handicapped by a unique combination
of problems, notably poor resource base, high population density, and by
being landlocked and far from any sea port. The country has an area of
94,200 sq. km, and a population of about 8.1 million, estimated to be
growing at 3.2Z annually 1/. Population density, averaging 85 persons per
sq. km, is among the highest in Africa. The country has no known
substantial mineral resources but is endowed with moderately fertile soils,
ample water resources, and a climate favorable to production of many crops.
Agriculture dominates the economy (para 41). The country faces formidable
problems including: (a) high population growth, resulting in a severe
strain on natural resources, food supply and social services; (b) limited
employment opportunities relative to itu fast growing labor force; (c)
under-developed human resources; (d) narrow export base concentrated in
three commodities (tobacco, tea and sugar), which are subject to frequent
1/   Population data based on preliminary report of 1987 census and staff
estimates.



- 2 -
price fluctuations; and (e) high transport Costs to the sea due to the
closure of transport route through Mozambique.
4.        Malawi is one of the poorest countries in the world, with a per
capita income of about US$160. As a result of these circumstances, about
half of the population lives below the level of absolute poverty, with a
per capita income of less than K100 (US$36) annually, which is insufficient
to ensure the minimum nutritional requirements and other basic household
needs. About 85? of the population living below atsolute-poverty levels
consists of smallholder farmers with less than one hectare of land (some
55? of all smallholders). Chronic food shortages and serious malnutrition
are widespread, exacerbated by poor health services.
B. Past Adiustment Programs and Economic Performance
Before 1986
5.        Starting from a very low economic base, Malawi was able to
achieve impressive growth during the first fifteen years after Independence
in 1964. Real GDP grew at an average rate of 5.2% per annum during 1967-
79, well above the rate of population growth. The balance of payments and
fiscal positions remained fairly stable, with the current account deficit
varying between 7Y and 9? of GDP and the fiscal deficit averaging less than
8? of GDP. The economy suffered a major setback in 1979 and, for three
years, Malawi experienced a sharp decline in growth and deterioration of
the balance of payments and fiscal positions. GDP fell by a total of 9.5?
during 1980-82. The current account deficit rose to 21.2? of GDP in 1980
and the fiscal deficit, before grants, to 15.5? in 1981.
6.         The deterioration of the economy was due to a combination of
external shocks and structural weaknesses in the economy. Foremost among
the external shocks weres (a) a sharp rise in import prices, especiallv
for fuel, while the price of Malawi exports fell drastically, causing a
major deterioration in the terms of trade; (b) severe droughts in 1980 and
1981, causing a decline in agricultural production and export volumes, and
compelling the country to import a large quantity of maize; and (c) rising
transport costs due mainly to disruption of the rail route to the sea
through Mozambique. The crisis unmasked major structural weaknesses in the
economy, including a narrow export base; stagnant smallholder agriculture;
heavy import dependence in the industrial and energy sectors; deficient
incentive framework; inefficient public enterprises; and weak institutional
capacity for planning and managing public resources.
7.        Recognizing the fundamental nature of the problems facing the
economy, the Government, with IDA and the IMF assistance, formulated a
medium-term stabilization and structural adjustment program covering
1981/82 - 1985/86. The program was supported by IDA through three SALs
(Annex 3), by the IMF through successive standby arrangements and special
facilities, and by other donors through co-financing of the SALs and debt
rescheduling in 1982 and 1983. The primary objectives of the program were
to stabilize the economy, accelerate agricultural growth and diversify the



export base, encourage efficient import substitution, improve the
mobilization and management of public resources, and enhance efficiency of
the key parastatals as well as that of the privately-owned Press Holdings
conglomerate. To stabilize the economy, the exchange rate and interest
rates were adjusted frequently; public expenditures were restrained; and
measures were taken to expand the tax base, improve tax buoyaney, and
curtail government and parastatal deficits. To encourage efficiency in
manufacturing industries, the legal framework was reformed to stimulate
competition among domestic industrial enterprises, and the number of
commodities subject to price control was reduced considerably. To improve
mobilization and management of public resources, the Government's
analytical and planning capability was strengthened and a better budgeting
process introduced. To enhance parastatal efficiency, measures were taken
to restructure and rationalize the financial and operational aspects of key
public enterprises, including the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation (ADMARC), as well as the privately-owned Press Holdings.
8.        To accelerate agricultural growth and diversify the export base,
emphasis was placed on improving incentives for smallholders 21. To this
end, the Government adopted and has continued to use a price setting
methodology developed with Bank assistance. Prices of all the major
smallholder crops were periodically raised significantly, with nominal
increases ranging from 141X for groundnuts to 1822 for maize between 1982
and 1989.
9.        The Government  elee initiated actlei-S v'- feduce fertilizer
subsidies with a view to eliminating them by 1985/86. The elimination i"
subsidies was abandoned in 1986 because of a sharp rise in fertilizer costs
following the closure of the route through Mozambique, and a substantial
decline in maize production. However, the Government continued to raise
fertilizer prices, increasing them by about 702 between 1986 and 1989, thus
reducing the rate of economic subsidy from about 352 in 1984/85 to about
27Z in 1988/89 and the financial subsidy from about 29Z to 24Z during the
period. Due to increases in fertilizer costs, the rate of economic subsidy
rose to 30Z and the financial subsidy to 26Z in 1989/90. Also, rising
fertilizer costs and a sharp increase in fertilizer use have led to a
continuous increase in the total amount of required subsidy subventions
from about K6 million in 1985 to about K 27.2 million in 1989/90 or about
2.02 of Government expenditures.
10.       The GoveLnment implemented the program satisfactorily and the
three SAL credits were fully disbursed. Although the performance of the
key macroeconomic variables remained uneven, the economy experienced
significant improvement up to 1985. Real GDP grew by an average rate of
about 4.5Z p.a. during 1982-85. The fiscal deficit declined steadily to
1OZ of GDP in 1985/86, and the current account deficit to 8.6Z in 1985.
21  Malawi's agriculture consists of two systems, smallholders and
estates (para 42). Historically, Malawi has left prices of estate
crops, which account for about 90Z of total agricultural exports,
free of Government intervention.



- 4 -
Downturn of the Economy and Further Adiustment Program
11.       The economy deteriorated again in 1986.  GDP growth fell to 1.1?
in 1986 and 1.4Z in 1987. The fiscal deficit rose to 13.1Z in 1986,
declining to 9.1S? in 1987. Inflation escalated from 14.9Z in 1985 to 26.82
in 1987. However, as a result of a considerable decline in import volumes,
the current account deficit fell from 8.6Z of GDP in 1985 to 4.8Z in 1987.
These reversals were largely the result of a recurrence of external shocks.
In addition to the cumulative effect of the shocks faced in 1980-81, severe
shocks occurred after 1985: export prices declined further; another spell
of drought, together with an outbreak of plant pests, occurred; and, most
importantly, regional political turmoil worsened, resulting in higher
transport costs, increased security-related budgetary expenditures, and a
large influx of refugees.
12.       In response to the continuing deterioration of the economy, the
Government in 1987 prepared a new strategy, which is set out in its
Statement of Development Policies, 1987-1996 (para 22). It also formulated
a three-year program, covering the period April 1988 to March 1991, aimied
at continuing and deepening adjustment reforms to: (a) align aggregate
demand with the available resources through stricter fiscal, monetary and
credit policies, together with active exchange rate management; (b)
increase productivity through addressing policy and investment constraints
on the performance of the major economic sectcrs; (c) strengthen the role
of the pri_ate sector through liberalization ar.d improved incentives; and
(d) enhance efficiency in the use of public resources. This adjustment
program has been supported by IDA and other donors through the Supplemental
Credit to the third SAL, approved in 1987, and the Industrial and Trade
Policy Adjustment Credit (ITPAC), approved in 1988 (Annex 3); by the IMF
through a stand-by arrangement and Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF)l and by further debt rescheduling in 1988.
13.       Supplemental Credit to the Third SAL:  The Supplemental Credit
focussed on improving efficiency in the agricultural marketing system for
smallholders by expanding the role of the private sector 3/. The main
actions taken to this end included introducing intra-regionally
differentiated producer and consumer prices for maize to make it profitable
for private traders to assemble maize and sell it to ADMARC or to consumers
and millers. Assemblers and farmers delivering a minimum of one ton of
maize to designated ADMARC receiving markets are offered a price which is
141 above the producer prices that ADMARC pays at its market centers 4/.
Also, assemblers and farmers may sell directly to consumers at a margin of
3/ Unlike estates, which rely on private channels, smallholders have
historically depended on ADMARC for marketing services.
4/   ADMARC operates 30 depots (receiving markets) and about 1,200 rural
assembly points (market centers).



302 bet'ween official producer and consumer prices S/. These changes have
attracted a wide variety of private buyers and sellers, comprising rural
and urban merchants, processors and mill,-rs, and institutions such as
hospitals and schools. As a result, ADMARC's share in the marketing of
smallholder agricultural production has declined from about 162 in 1986 to
6? in 1988 in terms of value. Its share in total maize marketed has
declined from about 202 in 1984-85 to about 7t in 1987-88 in terms of
volume.  These changes aim at eventually shifting the primary role of
ADMARC to that of a price stabilizing agency. While notable progress has
been made to this end, the role of the private sector continues to be
constrained by several factors (para 66).
14.       The Supplemental Credit continued to support measures to improve
the financial condition of ADMARC. These measures included: restructuring
its organizational setup; divesting investments unrelated to marketing;
reducing staff; and closing about 190 loss-making market centers and
consolidating others into viable operations. Ir. addition, the Government
took over the financing of the Strategic Grain Reserve, with ADMARC
managing it on behalf of the Government. As a result of these measures,
ADMARC's financial condition has significantly improved, moving from net
losses (after depreciation and interest) of K10.6 million in 1986/87 to net
profits of KO.6 million in 1987/88 and K14.9 million in 1988/89. However,
ADMARC continues to undertake functions which have the potential to reverse
these improvements (paras 79-80).
15i,      TrpAC   The main object-ve oCf ITPAC has been to improve the
policy environment in the industria' and external sectors. Its cornerstone
is a package of trade liberalization reforms, complemented by flexible
erchange rate management, restrained monetary and fiscal policies, improved
budgeting process, and improved industrial incentives. To liberalize
trade, actions were taken to remove requirement for prior approval of
foreign exchange allocation for about 652 of all imports. Other trade
liberalization measures included rationalization of the import tariff
structure, reduction of commodities subject to industrial and export
licensing requirements, and expansion of excise tax base and move to ad
valorem rate. To improve monetary management, interest rates were
decontrolled. A revised Reserve Bank Act was enacted to enable the Reserve
Bank to fully undertake traditional central banking functions, including
open market operations, institution of reserve requirements, and effective
supervision of the financial system. The Government has also revised the
Banking Act to, among other things, improve competition, remove distortions
in the financial system, and facilitate more effective mone~tary management.
Conditions for the release of the second tranche were met for both ITPAC
and the Supplemental Credit to the third SAL.
5/   With these changes, ADMARC retains exclusive rights only in the
marketing of smallholder tobacco and cotton (paras 67-68).



-6-
Recent Performance of the Economy 6/
16.       Since 1988 the economy has shown signs of recovery, and
substantial progress has been made toward achieving the targets and
objectives of the 188-1991 program. GDP grew by 3.6X in 1988 and is
expected to grow by 3.7Z in 1989, reflecting increased agricultural
production as a result of improved weather conditions and producer prices,
and increased industrial production as a result of higher capacity
utilization facilitated partly by greater import availability. The fiscal
deficit (excluding grants) fell from 9.1% in 1987/88 to 6.6X in 1988/89 due
to a slight reduction in total expenditures and a sharp rise in tax
revenues, and is expected to fall further to 6.32 in 1989/90. The current
account deficit rose from 4.8% of GDP in 1987 to 8.3% in 1988 in response
to the introduction of the import liberalization program. The rate of
inflation, which ran at 31% in 1988 as a result of monetary expansion and
demand pressure on scarce resources, declined to 15% in 1989 in response to
tight monetary and fiscal policies.
C. Overall Performance of Past Adjustment Programs
17.       The adjustment efforts to date have helped to improve fiscal and
current account balances. Inflation is declining but remains above the
international level, thus threatening to erode the competitiveness of
Malawi's exports, about 852 of which are agricultural. Efficiency in the
industrial sector, about two-thirds of which is agro-based, remains
constrained by the fact that trade liberalization reforms have not been
completed. The proposed Credit includes reforms to maintain the
competitiveness of exports and to enhance efficiency in import-substitution
industries.
18.        Past adjustment efforts also helped to achieve modest growth in
industry, estate agriculture, and among the relatively large smallholders.
However, because of remaining structural constraints in agriculture, the
most important sector of the economy, they have not succeeded in eliciting
supply responses necessary to generate sustainable per capita incomes and
sufficient foreign exchange resources to eliminate the need for balance of
payments support. Land and labor productivity among the majority of
smallholders has remained very low. As a result, nearly half of the
population, made up mostly by these smallholders, lives below the level of
absolute poverty.
19.       The main causes of poverty are high population growth: low
productivity of land and labor in agriculture; limited employment
opportunities; and low quality of human capital due to low nutrition levels
and limited access to education and health services. The Government and
donors have initiated several targeted measures to alleviate poverty,
including supplementary feeding programs for the vulnerable groups, free
6/   Macroeconomic data for 1988-89 based on second-year Policy Framework
Paper.



- 7 -
primary health services, and indirect transfer payments through fertilizer
subsidies. The Government and donors, however, are aware that, given the
high proportion of the poor, the problem of poverty can be addressed
effectively and tn a sustainable manner only through growth; and that, to
ensure effectiveness and sustainability, poverty reduction measures need to
be integrated into the development process. The proposed Credit will
support measures to improve land and labor productivity, thus reducing
poverty through agricultural growth.
PART II: COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. The Government's Development Obiectives and Strategy
20.       After the successive exogenous shocks of the 1980s, the
Government places great emphasis on the restoration of domestic and
external balances in its medium-term development strategy. The Government
remains committed to maintaining a flexible exchange rate policy and import
liberalization in order to promote efficient allocation of foreign
exchange, stimulate exports, and ensure efficient import substitution
activities. The Government's strategy also envisages a continuation of
fiscal and monetary discipline to reduce inflationary pressures and ensure
adequate credit expansion to the private sector, and to maintain a stable
business environment and external competitiveness. The strategy also
provides for a comprehensive reform of the tax system to improve the
structure of incentives to investors, broaden the tax base, and allow for a
reduction of the relatively high tax rate.
21.       Growth is expected to be led by agriculture.  The Government,
therefore, places first priority on promoting agricultural growth. Its
primary objectives for the agricultural sector are to ensure food security
at the household and national levels, imnrove rural incomes, and increase
export earnings while protecting the environment. The strategy to these
ends places emphasis on increased production among smallholders while
promoting efficient use of resources among estates. Accordingly, the
strategy incorporates measures to ensure adequate producer incentives,
promote the use of improved production inputs, and provide an efficient
marketing system. With regard to estates, the strategy seeks to increase
production by encouraging a higher rate of land utilization. Measures to
protect the environment include increased fuelwood planting, better tobacco
curing methods, and improved soil conservation. For industry, the strategy
seeks to achieve production gains primarily from increased capacity
utilization, facilitated by a more liberal access to foreign exchange
resources. The country's growth prospects are considerably dependent on
significant reduction of external transport costs. The Government's
strategy includes efforts to develop the Northern Corridor routes and
reopen the less costly route through Mozambique while continuing to improve
internal transport infrastructure to facilitate rural and agricultural
development.



- 8 -
22.   In its Statement of Development Policies, 1987-1996, the Government
now places greater emphasis than in the past on long-term objectives of
developing human resources, alleviating poverty, and protecting the
environment. It gives priority to increasing the productivity of assets
available to the poor, mainly labor and land, and to reducing population
growth. In addition to increasing agricultural productivity, the strategy
envisages policies and investment measures tot (a) expand off-farm
employment opportunities through promoting the informal sector, other
labor-intensive enterprises, and agro-industries; (b) slow down the rate of
population growth through child-spacing programs; (c) enhance the quality
of human capital through improving access to education and health services;
and (d) improve efficiency in the use of public resources. The donor
community and the Bank support the above Government's strategy.
B. Country Assistance Strategy
Overall Strategy
23.       The primary objective of the Bank's country assistance strategy
is to provide effective support to the Government's effort in four critical
areas: economic growth, sustainable long-term development, poverty
alleviation, and macroeconomic management. The Bank's assistance strategy
is designed to support the Government's program through both policy-based
and pro,ect lending operations, and mobilization of the required external
financing. Based on lessons learned from past operations, the Bank's
strategy recognizes the need to: (a) continue to strengthen Government's
capacity for policy formulation and implementation; (b) sharpen the focus
of adjustment operations in order to center policy dialogue on a smaller,
more manageable set of priority reform measures; (c) better integrate
macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms; and (d) improve the efficiency
of the donor program through increased aid coordination. The Credit under
consideration addresses constraints on the supply response in the
agricultural sector in order to reduce poverty and attain stable growth.
Agricultural Sector Strategy (Summary)
24.      The strategy is spelled out more fully in paras 51-53.  In
summary, the strategy supports the Government's objectives described in
para 21 above. It places emphasis on increasing the productivity of land
and labor among resource-poor smallholders and female-headed households in
order to improve food security and rural incomes. To achieve these
objectives, the strategy aims at promoting policies and investments aimed
at: (a) promoting the development of more appropriate technological
packages; (b) expanding the use of fertilizers and access to credit; (c)
improving the effectiveness of extension services; (d) expanding the range
of cash crops; and (e) ensuring adequate producer prices and efficient
output and input marketing system. It also seeks to increase efficiency of
land use among estates and to conserve natural resources. Through
operations to improve policies and strengthen institutional capacity and
physical facilities, it addresses supply constraints on both smallholder
and estate agriculture.



-9-
Strategy for Other Sectors
25.      Industry, Finance and Employment:  While industry presently
accounts for only a small share of GDP, it is significant to the efficiency
of aggregate resource use; also, light industries have good growth and
employment potential. Building oil reforms under ITPAC, the Bank will
assist the Government to alleviate constraints on industry and labor-
intensive activities through improving the capability of the financial
sector in areas of capital mobilization and financial intermediation;
promoting development of the informal sector and medium-sized industries by
Malawian entrepreneurs; continuing trade reforms; and facilitating both
domestic and foreign investments. To develop opportunities for off-farm
employment and foster agricultural development, the Bank will continue
supporting agro-industrial development through on-lending to the private
sector.
26.      Transport:   The Bank strategy places emphasis on the development
of external links; rehabilitation and maintenance of the internal transport
system; and appropriate pricing policy for transport services. In these
regards, the Bank will continue to support the development of transport
facilities required for growth, with new investments restricted to high
priorities. A forthcoming study of transport policy and financing issues
will identify new policy measures to reduce constraints in both the
domestic and external haulage sectors.
27.      Housing, Water and Energy:  In housing, the Bank strategy is to
strengthen local government management capability and financing; broaden
the role of the private sector and local authorities in urban housing
construction; and make housing more widely affordable. In water, the Bank
will continue to support expansion of the urban supply network as well as
rehabilitation of rural boreholes, within a policy of adequate cost
recovery. In energy, emphasis will be placed on least-cost power
development options, cost-recovery in power and petroleum, and incentives
to produce and conserve fuelvood.
28.      Human Resource Development and Population:  In education, the Bank
strategy focuses on the primary and secondary school levels with a view to
increasing efficiency in resource use and improving cost recovery; and on
providing in-service training to middle and senior level officials in the
public and private sectors. In health, emphasis is on primary care and
preventive medicine, and maternal and child care services. A population
study is currently being carried out. The Bank will continue to take an
active position on population policy as an important part of the dialogue
and lending program. It will continue to support concerted efforts aimed
at expanding various informational and educational programs to popularize
child-spacing, mobilizing social workers and civic leaders to motivate the
public towards small family size, and integrating population planning into
the development process. The Bank strategy supports measures to redirect
public expenditures toward the social sectors.



- 10 -
29.        Environmental Protection:  The Bank has assisted the Government
in developing a relatively strong institutional and policy framework to
address the pressing environmental problems of land and forest degradation.
The Bank strategy places emphasis on the development and dissemination of
environmentally sound crop and livestock practices; promotion of social
forestry and fuelwood plantations in fragile areas; improved charcoal
production and tobacco curing techniques; and appropriate pricing policy
for forestry resources. The rapidly growing population pressure on land
remains the major cause of increasing environment degradation. Therefore,
implementation of a comprehensive population program is critical to
ensuring sustainable use of natural resources. Pending the formulation and
implcmentation of such a population program, the Bank will continue to put
high priority on investments and policies to increase crop yields. The
Bank is developing an environmental strategy with the Government which will
provide a medium-term investment and policy program for action by the
Government and donors. In the future, under the Bank's leadership and with
donor support, Malawi will develop a tropical forestry action plan. Malawi
has also received an environmental technical grant which will be used to
prepare a natural resource conservation project.
Women in Development
30.      Despite their central role in agriculture and off-farm employment,
women account for a disproportionately high share of the food insecure
households and the poor. The Bank has developed proposals for pilot
schemes, to be started during 1990, to test a more appropriate extension
approach to reach women farmers; and to deliver subsidized fertilizer,
improved seed, and supplementary food targeted to the food-insecure
families. The Bank strategy is to assist the Government in strengthening
the institutional capacity for incorporating women's issues into the
development planning process, orienting programs and projects to directly
improve economic welfare among women, especially by relieving time
constraints on women and expand income-generating activities to them.
Poverty Alleviation
31.      The CEM under preparation in FY90 focusses on poverty issues, with
a view to developing a poverty reduction strategy, including the
identification of: the poor and the major factors underlying the poverty
situation; poverty alleviation policies that are consistent with growth and
macroeconomic balance; and specific poverty-oriented investment strategies.
A food security study is also under preparation and deals with chronic and
transient food supply problems at both the national and household levels,
and identifies ways to reduce malnutrition and strengthen food security.
The actions recommended in the study will be supported in on-going and
future projects. The majority of the poor in Malawi consist of
smallholders with less than one hectare of land. The policy reforms under
the proposed Credit include the main elements of the Bank's strategy in
support of Government's efforts to alleviate poverty (para 116). Future
operations in health, education, and water will emphasize expansion in
service delivery to reach the poor while a planned agricultural services



- 11 -
project will broaden orientation of these services to include the smaller
smallholders.
Public Sector Management
32.      To assist Government in maximizing the effectiveness of buldget
outlays in the tight fiscal environment, the Bank recently completed a
Public Expenditure Review (PER) and an action plan was agreed with the
Government to this end. The Bank will continue to support the Government
in implementing the agreed action plan to ensure that the composition of
expenditures reflects development priorities. To address implementation
problems experienced under the three SALs, the Bank will place increased
emphasis on projects and technical assistance to strengthen public sector
management, particularly at the Ministry of Finance and the Economic
Planning and Development Department; and on providing management training
to the public and parastatal sectors.
C. Bank Group Lending Operations
Past and Ongoing Operations
33.      Over the past 23 years, the Board has approved 53 projects for
Malawi.  These projects were financed by 49 IDA credits (totalling US$757
million, excluding cancellations); and 10 IBRD loans (totalling US$106
million, excluding cancellations), of which two were on third-window terms.
The assistance (US$863 million) has been distributed as follows: US$255
million (30?) for structural adjustment; US$179 million (20Z) for
agriculture; US$124 million (142) for education; US$127 million (152) for
transport; US$85 million (10X) for energy; US$31 million (4Z) for water
supply; US$18 million (2?) for health; and US$44 million (5?) for
development finance, technical assistance, industry, urban housing, and
institutional development. In FY89, the following credits were approved:
US$18.3 million for the Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development
Project, US$46.7 million for the Energy Project, and US$11.3 for the
Institutional Development Project. In FY90, two credits were approved for
eaucation (US$36.9 million) and infrastructure (US$28.8 million). IFC's
equity participation and lending commitments total US$33 million (gross)
and include investments in textiles, sugar, tourism, ethanol, plywood, a
development finance corporation, and a leasing and financing corporation.
In general, these operations have been implemented well. Disbursements of
Bank loans and IDA credits have generally been satisfactory and compare
favorably with other countries in the region and Bank-wide. A nLumber of
projects, however, have experienced implementation problems, mainly due to
fiscal constraints and, therefore, inadequate budgetary allocations
especially for recurrent expenditures.
Future Operations
34.      The proposed Bank assistance for the period 1989/90-1993/94 totals
about US$550 million. Of this, about one-third is intended for adjustment
lending, including the proposed Credit. Of the non-adjustment lending,



- 12 -
about one-third is intended for agriculture, one-third for human resources,
and one-third to finance energy and infrastructure.
D. Creditworthiness
35.      In 1988, the Bank Group heid 51.9Z of Malawi's total outstanding
medium- and long-term debt (including IBRD with 7.52), and accounted for
11.82 of Malawi's debt service. The IMF held 7.62 of total debt and
accounted for 24.72 of total debt service. The predominance of Bank Group
position is partly due to the fact that, during the late 1970s, many of
Malawi's most active bilateral donors converted their outstanding loans to
grants and have since made all of their aid to Malawi in the form of
grants. The Bank Group's share of Malawi's debt is projected to rise to
59.1? in 1992 and 60.72 in 1995, while its share of debt service rises to
20.92 in 1992 and 25.82 in 1995. This level of Bank exposure is not
expected to affect Malawi's creditworthiness fer borrowing on IDA terms.
Malawi has always been punctual in its payments to the Bank Group and other
creditors.
E. Macroeconomic Projections and External Financing Requirements
Macroeconomic Proiections
36.      Malawi is characterized by an extremely low income base and
potential GDP growth will continue to be limited by the external transport
and internal resource constraints. However, implementation of the strategy
formulated by the Government in 1987 is expected to generate substantial
production gains from the estate and smaliholder agricultural sector, as
well as from services and manufacturing. GDP is envisaged to grow by an
annual average of: 42 in 1989-1991, assuming industrial capacity
utilization returns to the early-1980s level as a result of the import
liberalization program, and estate agriculture expands with greater access
to credit; 4.5Z in 1992-1993, when smallholder agriculture would begin to
rebound as a result of the measures to improve fertilizer availability
under the proposed Credit and the cumulative impact of the ongoing credit,
extension and research programs; and by about 5.02 in 1994-1995, when most
of the measures under the proposed Credit would begin to have major impact
among smallholders and estates, and macroeconomic policy reforms and
sectoral investments mature and feed into sustained development (Annex 1,
page 3) 7/.
37.      These growth targets depend on a large transitional increase in
imports following the severe import compression experienced throughout the
19809. In agriculture, the emphasis on smallholder productivity implies
large increases in fertilizer imports. In industry, firms are expected to
exert a large demand for imports in 1989-92 to rebuild stocks and make up
for deferred maintenance and investment in line with the ongoing trade
7/   Macroeconomic projections are based on the second-year Policy
Framework Paper.



- 13 -
liberalization program. The demand for imports is projected to grow by an
annual average of about 5.3Z in 1990-91, by 4.42 in 1991-92, and by 3.7Z
thereafter. Exports are expected to increase by 5.4Z p.a in the 1990-92
period as a result of improved competitiveness and increased smallholder
tobacco prices (paras 59 and 65); and by 4.4? thereafter as a result of
increased export production by estates, following the proposed
establishment of estate extension services (para 86), and increased
manufactured exports following the completion of the import liberalization
program (para 59). As a result of the strong import demand, the current
account is expected to deteriorate from 8.4Z of GDP in 1989 to 9.9? in
1990, before improving to 6.9Z in 1992 and to 5.3? in 1995. Over the
medium-term, as the basic consumption requirements of the majority of the
population are met, domestic savings and exports should increase
significantly. During the transitional period, the country would continue
to rely significantly on the donor community to provide foreign resources
to supplement domestic savings.
External Financing Requirements
38.        Malawi's financing requirement amounts to a total of $912
million in the 1989-92 period, including current account deficits of $554
million, principal repayments (including IMF repurchases) of $298 million,
and reserve increases of $60 million. It is expected that disbursements
from project financing would provide $476 million, disbursements from
adjustment financing would provide $354 million, IMF purchases would
provide $63 million, and debt rescheduling would provide $19 million.
Disbursements for adjustment financing would come from commitments under
ITPAC ($79 million in IDA credit and $108 million in parallel and co-
financing arrangements) and ASAC ($70 million in IDA credit and $100
million in co-financing). The debt service ratio is expected to improve
significantly, from 442 of exports in 1988 to 20? in 1993 as a result of
the increased share of concessional financing in external flows.
F. Aid Coordination
39.      Malawi's economic reform program will continue to require
substantial amounts of external financing. Consequently, a key aspect of
the Bank's assistance strategy is to help the country to mobilize external
financing. Over the past year, the Government has begun to take a more
active role in aid coordination, including strengthening the external
assistance section of the Ministry of Finance. However, the government
capacity in this regard is still weak and needs substantial strengthening
in order to establish mechanisms for effectively coordinating external
assistance, which at present is donor driven. The Bank will continue to
assist the Government's efforts in aid coordination, using formal channels
such as Consultative Group meetings as well as informal channels, including
the meetings-periodically convened by donors represented in Malawi. It is
also important that the donor community understand and support the overall
objectives and strategy of the reform program, and align their assistance
to it in a coherent manner. Accordingly, the Bank will continue to
collaborate closely with donors in the preparation and financing of



- 14 -
adjustment and investment lending operations. In this regard, the donor
community has been kept well informed about the proposed Credit at all
stages, and prospective co-financiers were invited to participate in
negotiations.
G. Collaboration with IMF
40.      Bank and Fund staff have worked closely in reviewing macroeconomic
and sectoral issues, and in preparing the PFP, ESAF, and the proposed
Credit. The PFP provides the macroeconomic policies underlying the thrust
of the proposed Credit. Several of the issues to be addressed by the
Credit have significant bearing on the reforms being pursued under the
Fund's ESAF. The Bank has, therefore, kept the IMF fully informed of the
discussions with the Government during preparatiorn and appraisal of the
proposed Credit. More specifically, the Bank has reviewed with the IMF the
budgetary implications arising from the financing of ADMARC's development-
oriented activities, agricultural price policy, fertilizer subsidies, and
financing arrangements for the Smallholder Farmers Fertilizer Revolving
Fund of Malawi (SFFRFM). This collaboration will be continued during the
implementation of the proposed Credit.
PART IIIt THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Salient Features
41.      Agriculture is the backbone of Malawi's economy.  It accounts for
about 401 of GDP, 85S of exports and employment, and provides inputs for
about two-thirds of the manufacturing sector, while the handling of
agricultural produce and inputs dominates commercial and distribution
sectors. The country's arable land is about 2.4 million ha, most of which
is already under use. Except for the Northern Region, where about 351 of
the arable land is still unutilized, there is little arable land available
for agricultural expansion 8/. In the Southern Region, the cultivated area
is already larger than the arable area, meaning that more land is being
farmed than what is arable on a long-term basis. In the Central Region,
the unused land (10-15Z) is considered to be generally of very low
potential. Maize is by far the most important crop in terms of cultivated
area, number of growers, and food security. The other major food crops are
groundnuts, pulses, cassava, and rice. Exports are dominated by three
crops: tobacco, which accounts for nearly 501 of total exports; tea, 25Z;
and sugar, 102. Production is predominately under rainfed conditions, with
only a few irrigation schemes (for rice and sugarcane) which amount to
about 1.41 of the area cropped annually.
8/   Malawi is divided into three administrative regions:  Northern,
Central, and Southern regions.



- 15 -
42.      Malawi's agriculture is characterized by two distinct farming
systems: the smallholder system and the estate system. The smallholder
system accounts for about 80? of food production and 102 of exports. It
involves about 1.3 million families operating under customary tenure on
1.75 million ha. About 55? of the households cultivate less than 1.0 ha,
312 between 1-2 ha, and 14% above 2 ha. The arable land available per
capita varies considerably among the three administrative regions: about
0.48 ha in the Southern Region, 0.72 ha in the Central Region, and 1.3 ha
in the Northern Region. Maize covers 75Z of the cropped area; due to
unavailability of varieties acceptable to most of the smallholders, only a
small proportion of the area is planted with high-yielding varieties.
Other principal major smallholder crops are groundnuts, fire-cured tobacco,
cassava, cotton, rice, and various legumes. The majority of the households
produce primarily for subsistence, using simple hand tools and little or no
inputs, thus leading to very low yields at an average of 900 kg/ha for
maize.
43.      The estate system comprises about 8,500 farms, and accounts for
about 20? of total agricultural production and 90Z of exports, consisting
mostly of flue-cured and burley tobacco, tea, and sugar. This system
occupies about 605,000 ha. Estates vary widely in size, falling between
10-50 ha for the relatively new tobacco estates, 600-1,000 ha for the tea
estates and over 7,000 ha for the two sugar estates. Tobacco is the main
estate crop, occupying about 60? of the cropped area, while tea occupies
about 20% and sugar cane 18?; the balance is taken up by coffee and
macadamia nuts. In general, the estates use a much higher level of
technology and achieve higher yields compared to smallholders. However,
most of the estates regularly use only about 142 of the land available to
them.
B. Sectoral Performance
44.       As a result of structural constraints (para 47), the performance
of the agricultural sector has been poor relative to the objectives
outlined in para 21 above. After growing at an annual average of about
4.9Z p.a. in real terms during the 1970s, agricultural growth slowed down
to an average of 1.02 in 1980-84, recovering only to an average of 2.5Z in
1985-88, far below the rate of population growth. Compared to the 1973-79
period, the production of the main smallholder export crops declined
significantly during the 1982-88 period: tobacco production fell from an
annual average of 16,000 tons to 13,400 tons, groundnuts from 29,700 to
24,000 tons, and cotton from 24,000 tons to 21,400 tons. Efforts to
diversify estate exports have met with little success. As a result, the
composition of Malawi's agricultural exports remains very much as it was in
the early 1970s.
45.      Past adjustment programs have achieved little for the 55? of
smallholders cultivating less than 1.0 ha, mainly because the severe
shortage of land and low crop yields preclude the availability of
marketable surpluses. For these farmers, price and marketing reforms,
which have been the focus of past adjustment program, are of little



- 16 -
relevance in production decisions. The rest of smallholders able to
respond to better prices and marketing services have generally only
expanded some crops at the expense of others, with little incre&se in
aggregate output. Moreover, the per capita production of n.aize, the staple
food grain, has remained about 20Z below the population's nutritional needs
and is estimated to have declined from 193 kg in 1983/84 to 185 kg in
1988/89. The per capita income of 557 of smallholders is below the level
of absolute poverty. The result is widespread and serious malnutrition.
46.      Some progress has been made with regard to the conservation of
natural zesources mainly through the use of ridges in cultivated areas and
afforestation programs. Environmental degradation is a threat, however,
because of the failure to arrest the rapid population growth, which has led
to a correspondingly rapid decline in the land-man ratio while crop yields
remain stagnant. The need to increase food production has thus
necessitated reduction of fallow periods and expansion of the cultivated
area into woodlands and steep hillsides which are susceptible to erosion.
The rapidly growing demand for fuelwood and building materials has
accelerated deforestation and denudation of watersheds. The situation has
been exacerbated by the heavy demand placed on forest resources by tobacco
curing and the failure to enforce the policy requiring estates to establish
woodlots. The Government, the Bank, and other donors are concerned about
the degradation of the environment and have intensified their efforts to
address the problem (para 29).
C.  Main Constraints and Prospects
Constraints
47.      The past adjustment reforms in agriculture were confined to
pricing and marketing policy changes (paras 7, 13, 14). These reforms did
not, therefore, directly address policies bearing on structural
constraints. For smallholder agriculture, land is the fundamental
constraint. This constraint has been exacerbated by inappropriate policies
which have resulted in: (a) a lack of appropriate high-yielding maize
varieties; (b) inadequate supply and use of fertilizers; (c) a narrow range
of high-value cash crops; and (d) progressive reduction of the available
total land area. The lack of appropriate high-yielding maize varieties is
due to the fact that the research policy has focussed on the deveiopment of
varieties which the majority of the smallholders find unacceptable to grow
because of unfavorable storage and processing characteristics (paras 82-
84). The inadequate supply and use of fertilizers is largely due to
inappropriate policies on the financial management and funding of the
Smallholder Farmers Fertilizer Revolving Fund of Malawi (para 77);
packaging of fertilizers in inappropriate sizes (para 97); and limited
access to credit. Limited access to credit is partly the result of
institutional arrangements aimed at channelling credit through joint-
liability farmer clubs which, to minimize default rates among their
members, restrict membership to the relatively better off farmers. The
recently approved Smallholder Credit Project is supporting efforts to
address this problem; the proposed Credit will reinforce these efforts



- 17 -
(para 97). The narrow range of high-value cash crops is partly due to the
policy restricting the growing of burley tobacco by smallholders (para 87-
88). The progressive reduction of the available total land area is due to
the policy of transferring land from smallholder areas to estates (para
89). Other important constraints include inadequate budget allocations,
especially for recurrent expenditures to provide logistic support to
extension and research staff (para 94-95); and poor transport
infrastructure.
48.      For estate agriculture, the main factors inhibiting increased
production are inadequate access to credit for farm development and working
capital (para 86), and policies which have prevented the establishment of
technical advisory services needed by the relatively new estate owners
(para 85-86). Moreover, the level of land utilization has remained low due
to policies which have resulted in a low level of land lease rent, poor
payment of due rents, and long intervals before the rents can be legally
adjusted (paras 90-92).
49.      Internal transport is also a major constraint on smallholder
agriculture while external transport is a serious constraint to both
smallholder and estate sub-sectors. In rural areas, many localities lack
proper access roads, the general standard of roads is poor due to
inadequate rehabilitation and maintenance, the number of transport vehicles
is insufficient, and the existing fleet is poorly maintained. These
factors have led to high domestic marketing costs and have restricted the
role of the private sector (para 66). The closure of the route through
Mozambique has resulted in considerable increase in the cost of imported
inputs, including fertilizers and agro-chemicals, and has reduced the
profitability of ag-icultural exports. The Bank, through several highway
and transport projects, has been assisting the Government to alleviate
these constraint (Annex 2).
Prospects
50.      Despite the severe land constraint, Malawi's agriculture has a
considerable scope for achieving the supply response necessary for an
adjustment process which leads to sustainable growth and at the same time
alleviates poverty. This scope is reflected by the fact that, out of 1.14
million ha planted to maize in 1988, only 105,000 ha were under improved
maize varieties, only about 351 of the maize crop was fertilized, and
fertilizer application rate was about one-half of the recommended dosage.
Overall, the use of fertilizers is very low at 11 kg/ha compared to, for
example, 42 kg/ha in Kenya. The potential for increasing crop yields
exists especially for the 48? of the total arable land in the hands of
smallholders cultivating less than 1.5 ha and who at present use little or
no itputs. Application of fertilizers on local maize variety in the area
at present devoted to this variety would result in incremental maize
production of about 320,000 tons per year, which is equal to the minimum
requirement for about 1.5 million people. Replacement of local maize with
high-yielding flint maize would result in substantially higher production.
There is also considerable scope for increasing producticn through policy



- 18 -
changes to encourage greater and more efficient utilization of estate
lands.
D.   Agricultural Sector Assistance Strategy
51.      IDA's strategy supports the Government's efforts to increase land
and labor productivity in smallholder and estate agriculture. For
smallholder agriculture, the strategy focusses on shifting research policy
to develop high-yielding maize varieties that can be properly stored and
processed by traditional techniques, improving the effectiveness of
extension services through strengthening physical facilities and
introducing better extension methodology, expanding the use of fertilizers,
and conserving natural resources. Another research priority is to continue
the development of groundnut varieties which are high-yielding and disease
resistance, with improved export quality. Once appropriate maize and
groundnut packages are developed, research will shift to high value crops
including horticultural products. The strategy seeks to expand the use of
fertilizers through improved access to credit, targeted fertilizer
subsidies, increased supply of fertilizers, and the development of a multi-
channel distribution system. The strategy envisages improved producer
prices and expansion of cash crops to enable smallholders to generate cash
for inputs and food. It also envisages continued reforms in marketing,
including increased reliance on private traders and market-determined
prices. ADMARC is expected to increasingly focus on price stabilization,
food security, and development-oriented functions as the private sector
assumes responsibility for commercial market operations. For estates, the
strategy seeks to promote increased productivity and land utilization
through the establishment of estate extension services, increased access to
medium-term credit, and an appropriate lease rent policy. For the
environment, the strategy includes measures to ensure adequate incentives
for reafforestation, economic fees for wood extraction, and effective soil
conservation practices.
52.      The ongoing projects are designed to support this strategy.  These
projects include the recently approved Smallholder Credit, and Agricultural
Marketing and Estate Development; and the ongoing Wood Energy II, NRDP IV,
Agricultural Research, and Extension and Planning. The proposed Credit
will complement these projects by supporting appropriate macroeconomic and
sectoral policies to remove the main structural constraints in both
smallholder and estate agriculture. Measures to ensure appropriate
technology will be supplemented by further marketing and agro-processing
development and continued strengthening of extension and credit services.
To this end, future lending operations will include projects to support
smallholder research, extension, credit, processing and marketing services;
and to carry further sectoral policy reforms initiated under the proposed
operation as may be necessary. Environmental objectives will be supported
through the development of a long-term environmental action plan,
preparation of a tropical forestry action plan, and integration of soil
conservation measures into farming systems.
53.      Recently completed sector work includes NRDP Technical Review,
Food Security Study, and an Irrigation Sub-sector Review. Future sector



- 19 -
work will include an agricultural sector survey. The above strategy will
enable most of the smallholders to achieve improved incomes and enhanced
food security through greater and susta ned increases in food and cash crop
production. At the same time, estates will continue to produce exports,
with some diversification into tree crops and hort.icultural products, and
provide expanded employment opportunities.
PART IV:   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Overall Obiectives and ExRected Outcomes
Overall Obiectives
54.      The agricultural sector adjustment program to be supported by the
proposed Credit is an integral part of the Government's medium-term
strategy set out in the Statement of Development Policies and the
Government's ongoing stabilization and structural adjustment program for
the period 1988-91. The agricultural sector adjustment program is detailed
in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 5) and summarized in the policy
action matrix (Annex 6).
55.      The primary objectives of the program are to achieve sustainable
growth and to reduce poverty and food insecurity. To achieve these
objectives, the program will continue and expand ongoing reforms to
maintain appropriate macroeconomic policies with a view to, inter alia,
ensuring the competitiveness of exports, and enhancing efficiency in
import-substitution enterprises and in the use of public resources. It
will also continue and expand ongoing agricultural policy reforms to ensure
adequate producer incentives and efficient marketing services for
smallholders, and to improve ADMARC's capability to carry out the functions
of a price stabilization agency. The program will include new policy
initiatives to alleviate the structural constraints, described in paras 47
and 48 above, which have continued to depress land and labor productivity
and to inhibit supply response in both smallholder and estate agriculture.
To these ends, the envisaged reforms comprise measures to:
(a) continue the flexible exchange rate and restrained monetary
and fiscal policies; improve export incentives; and complete
the final stages of trade liberalization;
(b) focus the Public Sector Investment Program (including
agricultural expenditures) on areas of high priority and
returns;
(c) improve crop pricing and marketing policies through expanding
the role of the private sector;
(d) improve fertilizer availability and use among smallholders,
and enhance efficiency in the fertilizer distribution system;



- 20 -
(e) rationalize ADMARC's financing to enable it to play the role
as a price stabilization agency more effectively;
(f) shift the research policy and budget to develop hybrid flint
maize varieties that are high-yielding and acceptable to most
of the smallholders;
(g) allow smallholders to grow high-value cash crops, especially
burley tobacco;
(h)  halt .   transfer of land from smallholder areas to estates,
and increase the efficiency of land use among estates through
adjusting land lease rents and establishing estate extension
services;
(i) review and restructure agricultural expenditures to ensure
cost-effectiveness and consistency with sectoral priorities;
(j) initiate pilot schemes to develop ways of targeting
fertilizer subsidies and credit to the poor; and
(k)  strengthen the Government's capability to monitor and redress
impact of the adjustment program on the poor.
Expected Outcomes
56.      All of the envisaged major policy changes will be implemented
during the period of the proposed Credit. However, in common with most
policy reforms aimed at addressing structural constraints such as those
facing Malawi's agriculture, the impact of these changes will only become
substantial over the medium-term. Apart from the efficiency and production
gains described in paras 111-114 below, the program to be supported by the
proposed Credit is expected to bring about four major structural changes.
First, measures to develop high-yielding flint maize and to expand the
range of high-value cash crops will raise the production possibility
frontier for smallholders. Second, measures to improve fertilizer
availability and use, together with high-yielding maize varieties, will
help to release land from food to cash crops. This will strengthen the
balance of payments through availability of land to increase export crops.
Third, measures to halt the transfer of land from smallholder areas to
estates and to adjust estate land lease rents, together with allowing
smallholders to grow burley tobacco, will begin to redress the agricultural
development process in favor of smallholders. The past growth of estates
has been based largely on low land lease rents and the fact that only
estates could grow burley tobacco. The envisaged adjustment of rents and
measures to allow smallholders to grow burley tobacco have the potential to
reverse land transfer in favor of smallholders. The reverse in land
transfer would occur as some estates respond to these measures by sub-
letting or surrendering to smallholders some of the land that estates
cannot use profitably. Fourth, availability of high-yielding maize which
most of the smallholders will find appropriate to grow, coupled with
measures to target income generating activates to the poor, is expected to



- 21 -
start integrating the majority of smallholders into the development process
and monetary economy. The incomes of the poor would increase due to not
only enhanced own-production of food and export crops but also expanded
employment from more intensive estate land use and other opportunities
linked to a growing rural cash economy.
57.      The program is also expected to bring about other important
changes. Expansion of the role of the private sector in output and input
marketing is expected to enable ADMARC to increasingly focus on price
stabilization and the management of the strategic grain reserve. The
rationalization of the financing of ADMARC's functions related to the
Government's development and food security objectives are expected to
improve its effectiveness as a price stabilizing agency and to give greater
transparency to the involved costs. Measures to allow farmer clubs or
their agents to buy and sell fertilizers are expected to create a cadre of
private traders which would expand rapidly when fertilizer subsidies are
eliminated or effective ways to target them are developed. Restructuring
of agricultural expenditures is expected to enhance the effectiveness of
agricultural support services. Finally, the program is expected to have a
considerable impact on slowing down the degradation of the environment
through increased maize yields and expanded use of fertilizers, thus
minimizing the need to expand the cultivated areas into hillsides and
woodlands.
58.      The proposed operation will also support several studies.  Two
studies, one on tobacco and the other on cotton, are expected to provide a
basis for introducing participation by the private sector in tobacco and
seed cotton marketing. A third study will provide a basis for
differentiating estate land lease rents; and a fourth study will identify
ways to strengthen the management of SFFRFM. Another set of studies will
help to assess the poverty impact of the adjustment program. Some of the
findings and recommendations of these studies are expected to be
implemented under future operation. Also, further actions on some of the
policy changes under the proposed Credit will need to be taken under future
operations. Such further actions relate to eliminating fertilizer
subsidies; completing liberalization of the marketing of smallholder crops
and inputs, notably fertilizers; and expanding the targeting of credit and
other income generating activities among the poor, depending on the outcome
of the proposed pilot scheme.
B. Continuation and Expansion of Macroeconomic Policies
59.      The Government has already taken major actions to ensure an
appropriate macroeconomic policy framework and to liberalize trade (para
15). To maintain the competitiveness of exports and promote efficient
import substitution, the Government will continue a flexible exchange rate
policy; and carry further the trade liberalization reforms initiated under
ITPAC, including elimination of prior approval of foreign exchange for
imports except for a small negative list of selected items consisting
primarily of luxury goods. The Government will also introduce a more
effective duty drawback system to help improve the competitiveness of



- 22 -
exports, and a surtax credit system to exempt payment of surtax on imports,
including spare parts and capital goods. Furthermore, the Government will
review the existing tariff structure for imports, develop tariff reforms
and initiate their implementation.
60.      The flexible exchange rate policy will be comp'emented with, and
integrated into restrained monetary and fiscal policies, with a view to
stabilizing domestic prices and external balances. The fiscal policy will
be aimed at limiting the overall budget deficit (before grants) of the
Central Government to a level that can be financed almost entirely by the
available foreign concessional loans and grants, consistent with the
program's domestic and balance of payments objectives.
61.       Monetary and credit policy will aim at maintaining tight control
on money supply, while ensuring availability of credit to the productive
sectors. The Government has already set in place a framework for improved
monetary management (para 15). The Government will implement these reforms
in a phased manner with a view to establishing a system wherein restrained
monetary policy is managed through controlling reserve money in an
environment of flexible interest rates.
62.      To maximize the benefits of public expenditures in the tight
fiscal environment, the Government has adopted an action plan to strengthen
and improve the budgetary allocation process. To this end, the Government
will implement a number of measures, including development of proposals
that would facilitate the shifting of donor financing towards recurrent
development expenditures in key sectors, reactivation of the forward
budget, and improvement in sectoral budget planning to enhance consistency
with sectoral priorities. The Government has reviewed with the World Bank
priorities for the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) for the period
1989/90-1991/92, and will undertake a more detailed review of agricultural
expenditures (para 95). Through annual reviews, the Government will ensure
that the PSIP remains consistent with priorities and available resources,
that infrastructural investments with low economic raturns are excluded,
that individual projects are evaluated in terms of their contribution to
economic gro-wth and income distribution, and that implications for
recurrent costs and the balance of payments are fully taken into account.
The Government will also take action to reduce and eventually eliminate
fertilizer subsidies after a transitional period (paras 72-73).
C. Product Pricing and Marketing Policies
Pricing Policies
63.      The Government continues to set producer prices for all the major
smallholder crops and consumer prices for maize. Since 1987, however, only
tobacco and cotton prices are controlled in the sense that the official
prices are also the effective purchase prices. For all other crops, actual
prices may vary according to supply and demand within the limits set by the
official prices. A major focus of the reforms initiated under the first
SAL in 1981 has been to ensure adequate prcducer incentives for smallholder



- 23 -
crops. Since 1981, the Government has continued to review annually the
price of smallholder crops, using a price-setting methodology developed
with IDA assistance, and to submit the recommendations of the review to IDA
for comments before prices are announced. In the past, however, the price
review reports have usually been submitted to IDA only a few days before
prices are announced, thus allowing little time for considering IDA
comments. Under the proposed Credit, the Government will in future submit
the recommendations of the review to the IDA for comments at least 21 days
before prices are announced.
64.      The Government's policy has been to align producer prices with
border-price equivalents, except for maize and tobacco. Because of high
transport costs and low value relative to volume, maize is treated as a
non-tradable commodity. The price policy for maize is, therefore, aimed at
equating domestic supply and demand. Tobacco producer prices have been
generally kept substantially below export-parity, reflecting ADMARC's long-
standing policy to generate surpluses from tobacco to offset losses in its
other crop trading accounts and to finance its functions related to
regional development and food security objectives. In 1988, producer
prices for smallholder tobacco had fallen to about 29? of the export parity
prices as realized through the local tobacco auction. Low producer prices
have been one of the factors contributing to the decline in smallholder
tobacco production.
65.      Under the proposed Credit, the Government will take steps to
ensure that smallholder tobacco prices are brought in line with the border-
price equivalents by implementing a two-payment price system. A recent
review of ADMARC indicated that ADMARC could pay a pre-planting price of
about 452 of the expected auction prices without risking over-payment
relative to auction prices. Accordingly, the Government will implement a
two-payment system for smallholder tobacco, with the pre-planting price set
at levels at least equal to 45? of a three-year moving average of auction
prices, and a second payment made at the end of the marketing season to
reflect actual auction prices, less ADMARC's marketing costs. The
Government will also ensure that domestic prices for the other commodities
marketed by ADMARC, notably groundnuts and cotton, will reflect border-
price equivalents with a view to, inter alia, enabling ADMARC to at least
balance its individual crop trading accounts on average over a period of
three years.
Crop Marketing Policies
66.      Maizez  Past adjustment efforts have resulted in an expanded role
for the private sector in maize marketing. However, the private sector
continues to be constrained by several factors. First, the margin of 141
now offered by ADMARC as the spread with which traders operate in maize
marketing is inadequate to cover trading costs except in the Southern
Region and around the main consuming areas in the Central Region. Second,
rural Malawi suffers from a scarcity of transport services as a result of
an undeveloped rural road system and shortage of vehicles. This constraint
is exacerbated by the limited number of receiving markets at which traders
can sell maize to ADMARC, especially in the Northern Region; as a result,



- 24 -
traders have to transport maize over long distances thus precluding the use
of ox carts and wagons. Third, most of the traders lack sufficient funds
to finance fixed assets and working capital. Fourth, many of the traders
have little skills in carrying out agricultural marketing as a major
occupation. Fifth, traders lack proper storage facilities, particularly
for the marketed type of maize (the hybrid dent variety) which cannot be
properly stored using traditional techniques. Under the ongoing
Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project, the Government is
taking actions to provide credit to rural traders for vehicles, storage
facilities, and working capital; to train these traders in agricultural
marketing; and to construct storage facilities for hiring out to the
private sector. Under the proposed Credit, the Government will take
further actions to expand the role of the private sector through: (a)
increasing the number of receiving markets, with emphasis oIn t.be Northerrn
Region, to 35; and (b) increasing the margin offered by ADMARC at these
markets from 142 to at least 2OZ.
67.      Tobacco:  Tobacco is sold through an auction system.  As a result
of the proposed Credit, smallholders will be allowed to grow burley
tobacco, which accounts for about 65Z of tobacco exports, thus increasing
the impact of smallholders on exports. Malawi has expanded its share in
the world tobacco market primarily through maintaining high quality
standards. In view of the critical importance of tobacco in export
earnings, it is essential that the development of smallholder tobacco
proceeds in a manner that maintains high quality standards and minimizes
marketing costs. Partly because tobacco produces over 50 grades which need
specialized services for assembling, grading, and storing, smallholders are
required to market their tobacco exclusively through ADMARC. Under the
Credit, a comprehensive study will be carried out to assess the feasibility
of alternative channels for marketing smallholder tobacco. The study will,
inter alia, evaluate the feasibility of farmers organizing themselves to
hire the required specialized services and to market tobacco directly, or
through private traders, to the auction system (para 88).
68.      Seed Cotton:  At present, smallholders sell their cotton to ADMARC
which then passes it on to privately owned ginneries to be ginned for a
fee. These fees are high because of inefficiencies due to excess ginning
capacity, sub-optimal location of ginneries relative to production areas,
and a monopsonistic position of the ginneries. Because of high production
costs, Malawi is no longer able to export lint profitably and the primary
objective is to supply lint to the only local textile mill, with the export
market viewed as a residual outlet. The textile mill is privately owned
and holds a monopsonistic position. The domestic price structure down to
the farm level is determined by what the textile mill is willing to pay for
lint and, although the available data suggest that, at the present-costs,
cotton is essentially an import-substitution crop, the price the mill
offers is related to export prices. The Government plans to allow the
private sector to participate in seed cotton marketing. However, the
Government is concerned that participation by the private sector will not
result in the right price signals to farmers, given the sub-optimal
location of the ginneries and monopsonistic position of the ginneries and
textile mill. The Government will, therefore, carry out a study to design



25 -
a strategy to, inter alia, allow participation by the private sector in the
marketing of seed cotton.
D.  Input Pricing and Marketing Policies
Fertilizer Pricing Policy
69.      Justification for Fertilizer Subsidies at Smallholder Level:   A
major objective of the Government fertilizer pricing policy has been to
encourage smallholders growing local maize to increase the use of
fertilizers. With current subsidies, it is profitable to apply fertilizers
to local maize varieties. Without fe:tilizer subsidies, incremental
financiai returns would fall from K13.7/ha to minus K 22.5/ha for
fertilized local maize compared to unfertilized l3cal maize (Table 1). On
the other hand, the use of fertilizers would result in substantial net
incremental economic retutns at K47.1/ha (Table 2).  The production of a
ton of the local maize variety with fertilizers is estimated to involve an
incremental foreign exchange savings of about K254.7, reflecting the
difference between the cost of fertilizer imports and maize imports.
Table 1. Financial Costs and Benefits
For
One Hectare Local Maize Varieties
Unfertili?rd        Fertilized 1/
With Subsidy      No Subsidy
Yields: ton               0.80           1.26              1.26
Gross Value:K             207.3          828.9             828.9
Production Costs:K
Seds                     -----          -----
Fertilizers              -----          102.9             189.1
Labor                    -----          ------            -----
Total costs               -----           102.9             189.1
Not Returns (Losses)      207.3          221.0             184.8
Inremental Returns (Losses)j  0.0        13.7             (22.6)
I/ Fertilizer inputs at about 68.6 kg of nutrionts/ha.
/ Means the difference between net returns from unfertilized and fertilized maize
70.      Justification of Fertilizer Subsidies at the National Level:  When
valued at its border-price equivalent, the incremental production (135,000
tons) from the 300,000 ha of local maize which is currently fertilized has
a net incremental economic value of about K14.1 million and if this
production had to be imported, Malawi would use about K34.4 million in
foreign exchange over and above the amount of foreign exchange involved in
domestic production. This compares favorably with the amount of subsidies
needed to induce these gains, which is about K10.8 million.



- 26 -
Table 2. Economic Costs and Benefits
For
One Hectare of Local Maize Varietles
Unfertilized             Fertilized 1/
With Subsidy    No Subsidy
Yields: ton            0.860               1.26            1.25
Grove Volue:K ;L       428.8               688.1          668.1
Production Costs:K
S ods 2/                18.8               18.8           18.8
Fortlz4ers 8           -----              189.1          189.1
Cost of Funds 4/       -----               28.8           28.6
Labor !/               100.0              180.0          180.0
Total cost*             iT                  la611an
Net Returo, (Looses)   208.8               818.1          810.1
Increental Returns (Losses) 0.0             47.1           47.1
V7FUitTTT P_at about 659. kg of nutrients/ha.
V Maize valued at Import parity price at about K688/ton from Zimbabwe; foreign exchange
velued at otficlal exchange rate; 8/ Valued at import parity prices; 4/ Reflecting forgone
returns, at market Interest rate, on funds used on fertilizers; b/ 100 man-days for
unfertilized and 120 man-days for fertilized maize at K1.50/man-day shadow wage rate.
71.      Another reason for not removing fertilizer subsidies immediately
is that they are essentially indirect consumer subsidies which are
necessitated by poverty among most of the population, including half of the
smallholders who are net buyers of maize. In view of the severity of
poverty in the country, it is not feasible to pass on to consumers the
higher maize prices which would be needed, under present input costs and
levels of technology, to maintain sufficient producer incentives in the
absence of fertilizer subsidies. It has been estimated that, without
fertilizer subsidies, consumer prices would need to be cumulatively
increased by about 902 during the next two years to maintain adequate
producer incentives for the local maize variety. Increases of this
magnitude would lead to considerable hardship, especially among urban
dwellers and among most of the smallholders who have to buy maize to meet
the basic nutritional requirements. The alternative to address poverty and
food security concerns through direct consumer subsidies may be more costly
than the present fertilizer subsidies, particularly as it may induce
farmers to sell a larger proportion of maize, including maize produced
without fertilizers, and buy it back at the subsidized price. Nonetheless,
this alternative will be evaluated as a part of the proposed studies
relating to poverty issues (para 98).
72.      The Phasing Out of Subsidies.  The Government is committed to the
eventual elimination of fertilizer subsidies once it becomes possible to do
so without risking a fall in maize production and deterioration of
household food security. The present extremely high external transport
costs are temporary and are expected to decline significantly once the
Northern Transport Corridor project is completed in 1992 and the Nacala
line through Mozambique is fully operational. Furthermore, the



- 27 -
introduction of a high-yielding flint maize variety would improve
fertilizer response and reduce production costs substantially. These two
events will, over the medium-term, remove the need for production-related
subsidies. Therefore, subsidies could be eventually phased out but
continuation of subsidies during a transitional period will be necessary to
support smallholder productivity and food security objectives.
73.      During the transitional period, the Government plans to keep
fertilizer subsidies at a level which, given the projected increase in
fertilizer use and prices and free fertilizers from donors, will: (a)
maintain producer incentives for local maize at least equal to the present
level without having to raise maize consumer prices in real terms by an
annual average of more than 1OZ; and (b) maintain the total amount of
financial subsidies at no more than 2% of the projected total Government
expenditures, a level which is considered unlikely to exert a significant
pressure on budgetary resources. Accordingly, under the proposed Credit,
the Government will ensure that the rate of economic subsidy will not
exceed 30S in 1990/91, 252 in 1991/92, and 200 in 1992/93; and that the
total amount of subsidy subventions will not, as a proportion of total
Government expenditures, exceed 2.02 in 1990/91, 1.62 in 1991/92, and 1.3Z
in 1992/93.
74.      To maintain producer incentives for local maize at the present
level, the above rates of economic subsidy imply an increase in consumer
prices at an annual average of 9.31 in real terms during 1990/91-1992/93.
The subsidy amount will be accommodated within the overall expenditure
targets as projected in the second-year PFP. This is feasible given the
reduced interest expenditures resulting from a higher proportion of
concessional external resources; increases in total expenditures as a
proportion of GDP in accordance with PFP's projections; and, if necessary,
a reduction in lower priority expenditures relating to agriculture.
Fertilizer Marketing Policies
75.       Fertilizer Distribution:  Malawi continues to rely exclusively on
the Smallholder Farmers Fertilizer Revolving Fund of Malawi (SFFRFM) for
importation of fertilizers for smallholders and on ADMARC for their
distribution. The main factor preventing introduction of private traders
has been the leakage of subsidies to estates; these leakages are at present
estimated at 25Z-30Z of total fertilizer sales to smallholders. The
Government appreciates the efficiency gains which may accrue from a multi-
channel fertilizer distribution system but is concerned that, while
subsidies remain, complete liberalization would exacerbate the diversion of
subsidized fertilizers from smallholders to estates. As a first step
towards complete liberalization of fertilizer distribution trade, the
Government will, under the proposed Credit, take actions to facilitate
private sector's participation within a system that safeguards against
worsening the leakage of subsidized fertilizers to estates. To this end,
the Government will: (a) differentiate fertilizer prices to provide a
margin of at least 5? for a minimum amount of 200 kg purchased at ADMARC's



- 28 -
35 receiving markets; 9/ (b) allow bona fide groups of smallholders,
including the existing farmer clubs, their appointed buying agents, or
agents appointed by ADMARC to buy fertilizers from ADMARC's receiving
markets at the differentiated price.
76.      Fertilizer Supplies:  To improve fertilizer procurement, SFFRF was
recently reconstituted into a legally independent body (a trust) to give it
greater flexibility to operate on commercial principles. Arrangements were
also recently made, with assistance from the EEC, to establish a fertilizer
buffer stock amounting to about 90,000 tons or 90Z of the requirements in
1989. The primary purpose of the buffer stock is to improve timeliness of
fertilizer availability while actions are under way to procure regular
Imports; to reduce costs by scheduling the procurement of regular imports
in a manner that takes full advantage of changing world prices and
transport bottlenecks; and to allow for disruption of external routes.
However, lack of guidelines for the management of the buffer stock is
already threatenting to undermine realization of its potential benefits,
particularly as the buffer stock is being used with little attention to
replenishment. Under the proposed Credit, the Government has formulated
sound guidelines for the operations of the buffer stock with special
attention to defining: the conditions under which the buffer stock may be
used; the proportion which should be physically replenished; the time by
when its replenishment should be in place; the financing of replenishment
in view of rising fertilizer costs; and management procedures to minimize
operation costs.
77.      Financial Management and Funding of SFFRFM:  The Government has
continued to make foreign exchange available without restrictions to meet
the requirements for estates and smallholders. In general, estates have
continued to secure all the fertilizers they need. However, the ability of
SFFRFM to procure fertilizers has been constrained by two factors. First,
the purchasing power of SFFRFM's kwacha resources is increasingly eroded by
rising fertilizer costs due to rising prices and external transport
charges, coupled with frequent depreciation of the kwacha. Revenues from
sales of fertilizers in a given year significantly fall short of the
resources needed to procure fertilizers in the following year. The problem
is exacerbated by the need to procure a larger quantity of fertilizers each
year as more farmers adopt fertilizer use. Second, the ability of SFFRFM
to procure fertilizers is constrained by cash flow shortfalls especially
during the first and second quarters when most of the fertilizers are
procured. This problem is largely due to the fact that subsidy subventions
from Government are paid to SFFRFM a year in arrears; and that, although
SFFRFM is now an independent body, it still operates under Government's
instructions in some ways, including not being allowed to borrow from
commercial banks, even when it needs to do so to cover its cash flow
shortfalls. Under the proposed Credit, the Government has authorized
SFFRFM to raise funds from the commercial banks as necessary to bridge cash
9/   This would generate a gross return of about K60 which is the minimum
amount on average needed to cover transport costs and leave
attractive net return to traders.



- 29 -
flow shortfalls; and has started to pay subsidy subventions to SFFRFM on a
quarterly basis during the year when subsidies actually accrue. To date,
SFFRFM has been managed efficiently. However, given the projected rapid
increase in fertilizer use by smallholders, the Government will undertake a
study to assess the need for and identify ways of strengthening SFFRFM in
order to ensure that it continues to be managed efficiently.
78.      Malawi depends significantly on donor-grant fertilizers to ease
the foreign exchange requirements and to help maintain the purchasing power
of SFFRFM. In the past, donor-grant fertilizers have amounted to about 25Z
of annual requirements. However, donor support in this regard has been
hampered by lack of a plan on the basis of which they can mobilize their
assistance in a timely and systematic fashion -- a fact which contributed
to a decline of grant fertilizers to only 1OZ of fertilizer requirements
during 1988/89. Under the proposed Credit, the Government has initiated
preparation of a rolling five-year projections of fertilizer requirements,
indicating the required foreign exchange resources, quantities that can be
financed from SFFRFM kwacha resources, and the quantities needed from
donors
E. Rationalizing ADMARC Financing and Functions
79.      The Government has taken significant actions to streamline
ADMARC's functions and financing (para 13). However, ADMARC continues to
carry out some activities which, although essential for the development of
smallholder agriculture, cannot recover their costs. These activities thus
have the potential to reverse ADMARC's recent financial improvements and to
result again in un-transparent claims on the Government budget. Such
activities relate to price stabilization, food security, and regional
development objectives. To stabilize prices, ADMARC has to act as a
residual buyer, ready to purchase whatever amount of produce farmers are
unable to sell to the private sector at official prices. During years of
bumper harvest, this requirement forces ADMARC to buy maize in excess of
what it can sell profitably or beyond what is needed for the strategic
grain reserve. ADMARC is also required to operate about 1,200 market
centers, some of which are not financially viable due to low throughput;
and to maintain uniform official prices in the three regions, resulting in
losses estimated at up to about " 340,000 at 1989 costs and prices. To
reduce ADMARC's losses, official prices should be higher in the maize-
deficit southern than in the maize-surplus northern parts of the country in
order to shift production pattern accordingly. However, the cultivated
area in the Southern Region already exceeds the arable land and the unused
land in the Central Region is of low potential. In the medium term when
fertilizer availability remains inadequate and high-yielding flint maize
varieties are not available or widely adopted, relatively higher prices in
the south would not induce a significant supply response among smallholders
without leading to a decline in the production of other crops, and/or
causing extensive damage to the environment through the reduction of fallow
periods and expansion of cultivation into hillsides and woodlands. While
private-sector prices may vary from region to region, official prices are
differentiated on an intra-regional basis. This differentiation is



- 30 -
designed to promote the private sector in agricultural marketing rather
than to encourage a shift in the regional production pattern.
80.   Under the proposed Credit, the Government will take further actions
to ensure that the non-commercial functions that the Government wants
ADMARC to undertake are adequately funded in a transparent manner. The
Government and ADMARC will enter into a formal agreement which will set out
criteria for determining the development and food security functions to be
carried out by ADMARC, establish a basis and methodology for calculating
the involved costs, and define procedures for making budgetary subventions
to ADMARC to cover losses that may result for those activities. With
regard to the market centers that are not financially viable, ADMARC will
determine which ones can be made viable through commission agents and
accordingly appoint such agents to buy and sell on its behalf. Otherwise,
unviable markets would be either closed or, if the Government wishes them
to be retained, the Government wrould provide budgetary funds to cover the
ensuing losses.
81.      ADMARC's divestiture program has been progressing well, with major
assets sold off during the last three years. However, It has not been
possible to dispose of a number of assets because of lack of buyers, the
need for financial restructuring before offering them for sale, and the
need to avoid heavy capital losses. With technical assistance from USAID,
the Government is developing a strategy to dispose of the remaining assets
and is actively looking for buyers. These efforts will be continued and
monitored under the proposed Credit.
F. Shifting Smallholder Research Policy and Establishing
Extension Services for Estates
Shifting Research to Smallholder Needs
82.      With Bank support through the ongoing National Agricultural
Research Project (Cr. 1549-MAI, approved in 1985), the Government continues
to implement measures to improve agricultural research for smallholders.
While these measures have helped to strengthen institutional and physical
capabilities, the research policy for maize remained inconsistent with
farmers' needs. For the past twenty-five years, Malawi's research policy
for maize has sought to develop a variety, hybrid dent maize, that
genetically offers the highest possible yields. Due to its soft
characteristics, most farmers have found hybrid dent maize unsuitable
because, unlike the local flint maize variety, it cannot be properly stored
or processed (pounded) using the prevailing techniques, and does not meet
the preferred taste. Consequently, only about 7? of the land cropped with
maize is on average planted with this hybrid variety while the rest of the
area is planted with the low-yielding local varieties. The overall maize
yields are, therefore, very low at less than one ton per hectare.
83.      The Government has come to recognize that, in view of the severe
land shortage, the development of smallholder agriculture depends
critically on the availability of high-yielding flint maize which the



- 31 -
majority of smallholders would find appropriate to grow; and that only when
such a variety is available, together with the required supply of
fertilizers, will smallholders be in a position to respond to better prices
and marketing services. Under the proposed Credit, the Government will
continue to shift research policy and increase budget allocations towards
the development of high-yielding flint maize varieties.
84.      Promising genetic materials have been secured recently and
breeding work initiated. During the cropping season starting in September
1989, a selected number of flint hybrids underwent trials and screening for
storage and processing qualities. By the time new hybrid flint and other
varieties are developed, an effective extension system will be in place.
Two varieties are expected to be ready for limited release to farmers
during the growing season starting in September 1990. To ensure steady and
systematic progress, the Government, with assistance from CIMKYT, has
formulated a five-year action plan of key research activities, together
with the required budgetary funds. The Government will implement this plan
with a view to developing and multiplying sufficient quantities of high-
yield flint maize seeds for widespread release to farmers within the next
five years.
Establishing Extension Services for Estates
85.      A large number of estates continue to suffer from lack of
technical knowledge due to the lack of technical advisory services. Most
of the new estates are now owned and managed by indigenous people, most of
whom lack the knowledge and experience necessary to ensure proper crop
husbandry and farming techniques. As a result, they achieve generally low
yields compared to the older and more established estates. Because of the
important role that both the new and older estates have to play in
increasing exports, a study under the third SAL underscored the need to
provide these estates with facilities for medium- and short-term loans, and
technical advisory services.
86.      The Agricultural Marketing and Estate Development Project is
providing funds for both medium-term and working capital requirements to
estates. However, efforts to establish technical advisory services have
been frustrated mainly by the fact that the Government wanted the services
to be under the Ministry of Agriculture, whereas the estates wanted them to
be established under the Trust Act outside the direct control of the
Ministry and placed under general auspices of the Tobacco Association of
Malawi, given that estates would be financing these services. Under the
proposed Credit, the Government has taken action to facilitate the
establishment of technical advisory services for estates as a trust body
under the general auspices of the Tobacco Association of Malawi. The
estates will be responsible for financing the recurrent costs for these
services.



- 32 -
G. Introducing New Cash Crops among Smallholders
87.      In addition to developing and using improved technologies,
cultivation of crops that generate high gross margins from small pieces of
land is the other way for increasing productivity and incomes among
smallholders facing severe land shortages, as is the case in Malawi.
Burley tobacco is one of the cash crops that offer high returns. At
present, only estates and a few smallholders in resettlement schemes are
legally allowed to grow burley tobacco. Smallholders are only allowed to
grow fire-cured tobacco, which is more difficult to produce, due to heavy
demand on fuelwood for curing, and has less favorable market prospects due
to its high nicotine content. As a part of a broader effort to increase
productivity of smallholder agriculture and improve household food
security, the Government is committed to the diversification of the range
of high-value crops available to smallholders.
88.        Under the proposed Credit, the Government will expand the
growing of burley tobacco by smallholders outside resettlement schemes. To
this end, the Government will amend the laws hitherto preventing
smallholders from growing tobacco on customary lands. In view of the
importance of burley tobacco as a major export crop and the significantly
inelastic demand facing Malawi's burley tobacco in the world market, it is
essential that the development of burley tobacco proceeds in a manner that
ensures high quality standards, avoids over-production, and minimizes
production and marketing costs. Accordingly, smallholder burley production
on customary land will be initiated under closely supervised schemes, in
selected areas where food deficit households are concentrated. To ensure a
sound development, the Government has undertaken a study tot (a) formulate
appropriate institutional arrangements to ensure efficient extension,
input, and credit services; (b) assess the feasibility and identify ways to
enable smallholders to sell all types of their tobacco directly, or through
private traders, to the auction floor; and (c) identify areas to locate the
development of smallholder burley tobacco with a view to ensuring that at
least 75% of the farmers in these areas have less than 1.0 hectare of land.
Also, the Government has prepared a five-year plan that outlines the
Government's proposals regarding the quantity of burley tobacco to be
produced by smallholders, the areas of production, and the number of
smallholders involved. Finally, during the 1990/91 cropping season, the
Government will ensure that at least 5,000 smallholders are licensed to
grow burley tobacco on customary land.
H.  Halting Transfer of Land from Smallholders, and Inte:.sifyinq
Land Use in Estates
89.      After Independence and given the need to expand exports rapidly,
the Government adopted a policy of transferring land out of the customary
tenure status and leasing it to estates, thus increasing the land under
estates fourfold. In view of the high rate of population growth, the
declining farm size in customary smallholder areas, and the low level of
land utilization in estates, the Government will discontinue this policy.
The Government will, therefore, promulgate the necessary legal changes to



- 33 -
halt transfer of land from customary land areas, except in areas of low
population density and cases of experimental farms beneficial to
smallholders, and cases of smallholders wishing to convert established
customary rights into formal rights.
90.      The Government is also concerned that, in a country facing an
acute land shortage, estate farmers utilize only about 14? of the land at
their disposal in any one season. This rate of utilization is about half
of the rate that is technically feasible after allowing for the necessary
fallow and waste land. With a few exceptions, land is made available to
estates under leasehold subject to annual rents. The underutilizat.ion of
estate land is partly due to the fact that: (a) rents can be legally
adjusted only at intervals of seven years; (b) rents have remained low at
K10/ha since 1985 when they were last adjusted; (c) rent collection is
poor, at about 452 of the amount due in any given year; and (d) rents are
uniform irrespective of the quality and economic value of land.
91.      Under the proposed Credit, the Government is committed to ensuring
that rents are conducive to efficient use of estate lands. The Government
has, therefore, amended the law to allow adjustment of rents at intervals
of three years. It has also announced, through the official gazette,
increased rents from KIO/ha to K20/ha to become effective during the next
rent-year starting April 1991. The Government will take further actions in
1992 to differentiate rents according to land quality and to raise the
weighted average rent to a level at least equal to 1985 in real terms. To
improve rent collection, the Government will institute arrangements to
deduct rents through the tobacco auction system; this will cover about 95?
of the estates. leaving the Department of Lands to directly collect rents
only from a few estates growing tea and coffee, which have had low default
rates in the past.
92.      While the Government is committed to the introduction of
differentiated lease rents to reflect variations in land value, there is no
readily available basis to do so equitably since there is no land market in
Malawi. The Government will, therefore, carry out a land classification
study to establish a sound and equitable basis for differentiating land
lease rents. The study will aim at classifying estates into a few
categories, taking into account land potential as determined by
technological factors, including ecological and soil conditions; and by
economic factors, including proximity to market outlets and transport
infrastructure.
93.      Resource Conservation on Estates:  Although estate leases require
that 10X of the land is under forest, few estates comply with this
requirement. Non-compliance has been one of the contributing factors to
the unsustainable utilization of national forest resources, especially by
farmers who need large quantities of fuelwood to cure tobacco. In the
interest of conserving forestry resources and protecting the environment,
the Government will strengthen the Department of Lands, through increasing
the regional inspectorate staff and improving staff mobility, to enable the
Department to enforce better compliance with the lease requirements in this



- 34 -
regard except in cases where estates are able to obtain fuelwood from
forest plantations or private sources.
I. Prioritizing Agricultural Expenditures
94.      Budgetary resources to agriculture are devoted almost wholly to
the funding of support services to smallholders. The level of efficiency
in the use of these resources is, therefore, of critical importance in
Government's efforts to address the constraints that have continued to
stagnate the performance of smallholder agriculture. The agricultural
budget faces two major issues: the need to ensure that expenditures remain
within available resources; and the need to attain a proper balance between
personnel emoluments (PEs) and departmental recurrent charges (DRCs) which
relate to goods and services necessary to enhance the effectiveness of
personnel resources. In the absence of corrective actions, it is estimated
that the funds required for the ongoing projects and programs are likely to
significantly exceed the projected budgetary resources during the period up
to 1992193. The ratio of DRCs to PEs has recently declined from 1.0 to
O.8, meaning that agricultural staff now have a reduced amount of goods and
services with which to work.   As a result, field extension steff, among
others, are increasingly finding it difficult to carry out their work due
to shortage of funds to meet the cost of, for example, field travel
allowances, fuel and vehicle repairs, and equipment and supplies.
95.      The Government recognizes the need to provide effective
agricultural support services to smallholders. In an environment of
constrained budgetary resources, the Government will place emphasis on
aligning expenditures with available resources, and on directing
expenditures to activities likely to yield high returns consistent with
sectoral objectives. Over the medium to long-run, Malawi would be able to
finance agricultural recurrent expenditures from enhanced revenues
resulting from implementation of the ongoing structural adjustment reforms.
In the short-run, however, budgetary constraints will not allow adequate
funding of the recurrent expenditures required to improve the performance
of smallholder agriculture. Therefore, the country will need donor
assistance to finance not only development but also recurrent expenditures,
in appreciation of the fact that recurrent expenditures which result in
improved technologies and enhanced knowledge of such technologies among
farmers are in the nature of development investments. Under the proposed
Credit, the Government is reviewing ongoing and planned agricultural
projects and programs for the purpose of: (a) identifying a core of
critical activities on the basis of which donors would be encouraged to
finence A larSer PhRre of recdnrrpnt cnsta than at present; and (b)
restructuring, as may be necessary, these projects and programs to (i)
align expenditures with the available resources, (ii) direct expenditures
to activities likely to yield highest returns, and (iii) increase DRCs/PEs
ratio.



- 35 -
J. Reducing Food Insecurity among the Poor
96.      Nearly 55Z of farm households run out of food grain long before
the next harvest is collected. The Government is attempting to deal with
the problem in several ways. A food security unit has been created within
the Office of the President and Cabinet, and a major nutrition surveillance
project is under way to learn more about the extent and causes of
malnutrition. The Government regards it as essential that food security at
the household level be achieved through increased household production
rather than through food aid programs or transfer payments. Recognizing
that food shortage is more acute among those cultivating very small land
holdings and that there are several constraints to increasing agricultural
production, the Government is pursuing several approaches to address the
problem. These include developing improved maize varieties that are more
acceptable to smallholders than those presently available, and expanding
the use of fertilizers and the range of cash crops for smallholders.
However, these approaches may not benefit the relatively smaller
smallholders unless they are complemented with actions specifically
targeted to the food deficit households.
97.      Recent experience has clearly demonstrated that the use of
fertilizers by smallholders with relatively smaller land holdings can be
significantly increased by making fertilizers available in packages of 10-
25 kg, and that the use of high analysis fertilizers can reduce fertilizer
costs substantially. Until three years ago, all fertilizers have been
packaged in bags of 50 kg, which contain amounts of fertilizers beyond the
needs and financial means of most of the smaller smallholders. Partly as a
result of this, subsidies have gone out mainly to the relatively better off
and larger smallholders. The Government has already initiated some
measures to target subsidies by providing a larger element of subsidy on
fertilizers packaged in small bags, which are mostly used by the relatively
smaller smallholders. Also, the Government recently approved a UNDP-funded
project, to be executed by the Bank, to finance pilot schemes to test ways
of targeting fertiltzer subsidies and agricultural credit to the food-
deficient households. Under the proposed Credit, the Government will: (a)
ensure that in future, at least 50Z of the fertilizers is packaged in bags
of not more than 25 kg, at a price prorated to the price of the larger
bags; (b) set fertilizer prices to provide a higher rate of subsidy on high
than on low analysis fertilizers; (c) locate the smallholder burley
production schemes in areas where at least 75? of land holdings are less
than 1.0 ha.; (d) initiate implementation of the UNDP-funded project to
test various ways for cost-effective and more comprehensive targeting of
agricultural credit and fertilizer subsidies to the food-deficient
households. Fin&llv. the ooeration of the Strategic Grain Reserve will be
strengthened through the formulation of operational guidelines which will
include specific criteria for selling to and buying from the SGR, and for
determining the optimum stock size.



- 36 -
K. Monitoring Poverty Impact of Adjustment Program
98.      The Credit will also include a component to strengthen the present
capability to monitor the impact of the adjustment program on the
vulnerable and resource-poor groups. The objective of this component is to
enable the Government to: (a) establish a solid socioeconomic database;
(b) build a capability to analyze and formulate options for targeting
social programs to the vulnerable groups and the poorer segments of the
population; and (c) carry out studies on key policy issues. To these ends,
the Government plans to undertake an integrated household survey and carry
out studies relating to poverty issues, including a comparative analysis of
costs and benefits of fertilizer and direct consumer subsidies as
alternative options to address poverty and household food security
concerns. The integrated household survey will be carried out under the
auspices of the National Statistical Office (NSO). The survey will provide
comprehensive socioeconomic data to establish profiles of the adversely
affected gruups and be used by line ministries and other concerned
organizations to carry out analysis of poverty related issues. It will
also gather data that will be used to construct weights to update and
expand the coverage of the Constuner Price Index (CPI), and to serve as a
baseline for monitoring key socioeconomic variables. The last CPI was
constructed from 1979 household data, which covered only the major urban
areas. Therefore, it needs to be expanded to include rural areas. To
maximize the usefulness of the survey, the Government will ensure that the
operating ministries and other governmental agencies will continue to have
access to the data collected under the survey, subject to safeguarding
needs for confidentiality as appropriate. The component under this
operation is expected to be followed by a second-phase initiative to be
supported by the Bank and other donors under the proposed Health and
Population III project.
PART V: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (ASAC)
A. Obiectives and Rationale for IDA Involvement
Objectives
99.      The primary objective of the proposed Credit is to support the
implementation of the Government's program described in Annex 5. It will
also provide additional foreign exchange resources for imported inputs
required to realize fully the benefits expected from the program. Since
continuation of trade liberalization reforms under the proposed Credit are
projected to cause a high demand for a wide range of imports during tne
next two years, the proposed Credit would provide quick-disbursing funds in
support of the balance of payments. The adjustment program to be supported
by the proposed Credit entails elements that will add to the export gains
expected from ITPAC, thus reducing the need for balance of payments support
over the medium-term. First, measures to increase yields of staple food
grain among smallholders will help to release land progressively for cash
and export crops while measures to encourage efficiency in land use among



- 37 -
estates would increase exports of various commodities. Second, measures to
improve prices of smallholder tobacco and to allow smallholders to grow
burley tobacco will provide both the incentive and opportunity to devote
some of the land released from food crops to the production of export
crops. Third, the additional income generated in rural areas will lead to
significant multiplier effects in both consumption and production and
consequently further growth. After this transitional period, external
resources will be needed mainly to support investment-oriented operations.
100.     The operation will also provide about US$ 1.5 million to finance
technical assistance and short-term consultancies (54 man-months),
training, equipment, and vehicles to carry out the survey and studies
described in para 98 above. The cost of technical assistance and
consultancy services is estimated at US$750,000; equipment, supplies, and
vehicles at US$520,000; and training at US$230,000.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
101.     The proposed Credit is a logical follow-up to the past series of
structural adjustment operations through which IDA has been supporting
Malawi's efforts to stabilize the economy and resume sustainable growth.
It would also help to create a sectoral policy framework which will enhance
the impact of the ongoing investment projects supported by IDA. The
proposed Credit constitutes a vehicle by which IDA would continue to play
an effective role in: (a) assisting Malawi to formulate and implement
appropriate policies and strategies as needed to attain sustainable growth;
(b) helping to mobilize external resources necessary to support
implementation of such policies and strategies; and (c) fostering effective
coordination of donor assistance within a coherent strategy.
B. Financing Plan
102.     A total of US$170 million equivalent is expected to be provided
under the proposed Credit. This amount would comprise US$70 million
equivalent from IDA, and US$100 million equivalent from co-financing under
the Special Program of Assistance. The Netherlands has confirmed
cofinancing funds amounting to DFL 10 million. Interest to participate in
the Program has been expressed by the United Kingdom (Pounds Sterling 10
million), United States (US$25 million), the Federal Republic of Germany
(amount not yet indicated), and the EEC (amount not yet indicated). The
Government of Japan has been approached to participate in the program,
with an amount of US$30 million equivalent. The governments of the United
Kingdom and Netherlands are expected to request IDA to administer their
funds.
103.     The Credit's proceeds would finance 1002 of the foreign exchange
cost of eligible imports (including equipment and vehicles relating to the
integrated household survey) on the basis of a negative list; and 100Z of
the cost of consultancy services, estimated at US$750,000 (SDR 565,000),



- 38 -
related to the integrated household survey 10/. The negative list would
comprise goods and services financed from other sources, alcoholic
beverages, tobacco, military equipment, and luxury consumer goods. The use
of the negative list reflects the fact that the proposed Credit is one of a
series of operations supporting ongoing macroeconomic adjustments. In
particular, it continues to support trade liberalization measures initiated
under ITPAC which would cause a high demand for a broad range of imports.
Moreover, the general thrust of the structural adjustment operation is the
elimination of administrative controls in all aspects of the economy
including the allocation of foreign exchange. Use of the negative list
furthers this objective. The local currency generated by the sale of the
Credit proceeds to importers would accrue to Treasury.
C. Procurement, Disbursement, Accounts and Audit
Procurement
104.     Except for consultancy services, the proposed Credit would provide
quick-disbursing funds in support of the balance of payments. Procurement
procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of the funds while
ensuring efficiency and accountability. Private, parastatal, and public
sector imports of goods and services would be eligible for financing under
the Credit. Imports by both the public and private sectors would follow
international competitive bidding for amounts exceeding US$2.0 million
equivalent. For amounts below US$2.0 million: (a) the public sector would
follow Malawi Government procurement procedures which are acceptable except
in minor respects which the Government has agreed to modify (under the
ongoing IDA-financed Public Procurement Code Revision Study) to make the
procedures fully acceptable to IDA; and (b) the private sector purchases
would follow established commercial practices, including competitive
bidding wherever appropriate, which have worked well in Malawi. Wherever
possible, quotations from eligible suppliers from at least two countries
should be sought. Direct contracting (single source purchase) could be
used only for proprietary equipment or where compatibility with existing
equipment would require standardized equipment and spare parts. Some
commonly traded commodities may be purchased at prices quoted in organized
international markets. Procurement would be limited to goods from Bank
member countries, Switzerland and Taiwan. Verification of imports has been
currently limited to physical inspections by Customs. This system would be
improved by engaging expert agencies to certify goods in respect of
quality, quantity and price of shipments; during negotiations, the
Government agreed that, subject to availability of funds to meet the costs,
such a firm wFil be retained following solicitation from short-listed
firms. Regardless oi the procurement methods used, no more than US$12
million would be used to finance imports in any single trade group or
subgroup. Consultancy services will be provided according to the Bank
Guidelines for the use of consultants.
10/      The training component would be financed from bilateral funds.



- 39 -
Disbursement
105.     Except for the consultancy services, the proposed IDA Credit would
be disbursed in two tranches, the first amounting to SDR 26.035 million,
and the second SDR 26.0 million. The first tranche would be disbursed upon
Credit effectiveness and the second tranche about eight months thereafter.
Disbursement of the second tranche would be conditional on satisfactory
implementation of the overall policy reform program outlined in the
Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex 5) and on the actions
specified in para 110 below. To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account
would be established with a commercial bank of the Government's choice,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The initial deposit would
be US$20 million, which represents three months of the expected
expenditures under the Credit; the account would be replenished regularly
up to the limit of the initial deposit. Replenishments would be made on
the basis cf fully documented reimbursement applications, except for
expenditures under $250,000 which would be reimbursed on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The SOEs would show the nature and
origin of the goods, the name of the importer, and the payment date. The
supporting documents for SOEs (invoices, customs declarations, bills of
lading and evidence of payment) would be retained by the Reserve Bank of
Malawi (RBM) and made available for review by Bank supervision missions.
Expenditures for goods covered by invoices of less than US$10,000
equivalent would not be eligible for financing.   Withdrawal applications
would be consolidated in amounts of at least US$50,000. The closing date
of the proposed Credit is December 31, 1991.
Accounts and Audit
106.     The RBM would be responsible for maintaining Credit accounts a:id
preparing and submitting withdrawal applications. In addition, RBM would
be responsible for arranging annual audit of Credit accounts, including the
special account and SOEs, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The
audit reports, including specific comments on SOEs, would be submitted to
IDA within six months of the end of RBM's fiscal year. RBM is adequately
staffed to undertake these duties and has discharged them effectively under
the SALs.
D. Monitoring and Tranche Release
107.     IDA will review the implementation of the overall adjustment
program as well as specific actions outlined in the Govez-nmzct's L'ttar of
Development Policy, through regular supervision missions and exchange of
views with Government. In view of the critical need to ensure that the
macroeconomic framework remains conducive to agricultural growth, IDA will
pay attention to the adequacy and consistency of the sectoral as well as
key macroeconomic policies. To this end, IDA will coordinate its
supervision work closely with the IMF in reviewing key macroeconomic
policies and indicators, particularly those regarding exchange rate



- 40 -
management, fiscal deficit targets, and fertilizer subsidies. The matrix
in Annex 6 shows priority actions to be monitored closely.
108.     Actions Before .egotiations:  The following actions were taken:
(a) preparation of a 5-year fertilizer requirement projection; (b) formal
authorization by Government to allow SFFRFM to raise short-term loans from
the banking system; (c) preparation and starting implementation of an
action plan to shift maize research policy and budget to develop a high-
yielding flint maize; (d) agreement with tobacco estate farmers on the
establishment of technical advisory services for estate farmers as a trust
body, to be funded by estates, under the general auspices of the Tobacco
Association of Malawi; and (e) initiating a study to formulate appropriate
institutional arrangements to ensure efficient extension, input, credit,
and marketing services to smallholder burley tobacco growers.
109.     Conditions of Board Presentation:  The following actions have been
taken: (a) amending Tobacco Growing and Selling regulations to enable
smallholders to grow burley tobacco in customary land areas without land
leases or other formal title deeds; (b) promulgating a Land Control Order
under the Land Act to halt transfer of land from customary land to estates,
except in areas with low population density or cases of experimental farms
beneficial to smallholders, and in cases involving conversion of
established customary rights into formal rights; (c) amending the Land Act
to provide for increasing estate land lease rents, and to reduce the
intervals at which rents can be legally adjusted from seven to three years;
and (d) announcing, in the official gazette, increased rents up to K20/ha,
to become effective by the next rent year starting April 1991.
110.     Release of the Second Tranche:  This would be conditional upon
satisfactory implementation of the overall adjustment program described in
the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 5) and specifically on: (a)
maintaining the exchange rate and fiscal deficit for FY90/91 at levels
satisfactory to IDA; (b) preparing a PSIP for 1990/91-1993/94 satisfactory
to IDA; (c) eliminating prior approval of foreign exchange for all imports
except for a short list of items, satisfactory to IDA, consisting primarily
of luxury goods; (d) adjusting fertilizer prices to keep the rate of
economic subsidy at a level not exceeding 302 and the total amount of
fertilizer subsidy subvention at a level not exceeding 2% of total
Government expenditures during 1990/91; (e) announcing a 2-payment price
system for smallholder tobacco, with the pre-planting price being at least
45? of a moving 3-year average of auction prices; (f) licensing at least
5,000 smallholders to grow burley tobacco under customary land tenure in
areas where at least 75? of the farmers have less than 1.0 ha of land; (g)
implementing               Loiaigemer- tO collect estate land lease Lents through
deductions at tobacco auctions; and (h) starting pilot schemes to test ways
of targeting fertilizer subsidies and agricultural credit to smallholders
with less than 1.0 ha of land.



- 41 -
E. Impact and Risks
Efficiency and Production Impact
111.     Expected gains from the package of policy reforms under the
proposed Credit would be substantial over the medium-term. They are not,
however, amenable to reliable quantification.  These gains would come from
both the macroeconomic and sectoral reforms described above.  The measures
to ensure flexible exchange rate policy, fiscal and monetary discipline, as
well as to carry out further import liberalization and to introduce a more
effective duty draw-back system for exports would generate high efficiency
gains in the use of resources and would improve the competitiveness of
agricultural and other exports. Significant efficiency gains in the use of
resources are also expected from measures to improve the quality of the
Public Sector Investment Program, including restructuring of agricultural
expenditures; and to expand private sector participation in agricultural
marketing and input distribution for smallholders.
112.     Changes to shift the research policy to develop high-yielding
flint maize, improve the availability of fertilizers, and continue adequate
producer incentives would considerably increase maize yields and total
production among smallholders. It is estimated that fertilized high-
yielding flint maize would increase yields by up to 602 on average over and
above the fertilized local maize variety. Replacing the local maize
variety with high-yielding flint maize in the area now devoted to
fertilized local maize would result in incremental production of some
225,000 tons annually, more than the total amount of maize marketed in a
typical year through ADMARC before 1987.
113.     Measures to enable smallholders to grow burley tobacco would
enhance productivity and increase cash incomes, thereby raising rural
purchasing power most of which is likely to be reflected in increased
demand for domestic goods and services. Based on projections by tobacco
buyers, it is feasible for smallholders to increase burley tobacco
production to about 9,000 tons annually within the next six years without
causing a reduction in estate production in absolute terms. At current
prices, this would inject into the rural economy an additional net cash
income of about K22.7 million (Us$8.4 million) annually. Efficiency gains
are also likely to come from the fact that, in terms of domestic resource
costs, smallholders appear more efficient than estates in the production of
burley tobacco. Finally, the envisaged improved collection and adjustment
of estate land lease rents, together with the provision of technical
5UZViZZ7- -Uex  e5LaLE&' bwuu;U ct&LUuxag  eLxicient use or estate
lands, leading to a higher level of land utilization, production, and
increased formal agricultural employment. It is estimated that, at a
weighted average (according to the major estate crops) of 1.12 workers/per
ha, a 1Z increase in utilization of estate land would result in about 6,700
new jobs, about 3.7? of the present formal agricultural employment.



- 42 -
Balance of Payments and Fiscal Impact
114.     In addition to maintaining the competitiveness of exports, the
proposed Credit would help to improve the balance of payments as a result
of increased production of export crops facilitated mainly by the release
of land from food crop production as high-yielding flint maize becomes
available and fertilizer use expands, improved prices of smallholder
tobacco, and greater utilization of estate lands. With regard to the
fiscal impac~t, the proposed Credit would, by raising smallholder tobacco
prices, sigsificantly reduce surpluses accruing to ADMARC and, by
implication, to the Government as such surpluses have been an indirect tax
on smallholders partly to finance the Government's development and food
security objectives. This loss of revenues would be offset by increas3d
lease rents on estate land, which is estimated to generate incremental
revenues of about K6 million (US$2.3 million) annually; improved collection
of estate rents, with incremental revenues estimated at K3.1 (US$1.2
million) million annually; and reduction of fertilizer subsidies, combined
witlh increased maize consumer prices.
115.     Other measures under the proposed Credit are unlikely to have a
significant impact on budgetary resources. The reorientation of maize
research is expected to involve capital expenditures of about K600,000, all
of which is being funded from external sources, while recurrent costs would
be financed by switching funds from low priority areas and from donor
funds. The initial capital costs for technical advisory services to the
estates would be financed from external sources while recurrent costs would
be financed by the estates. Support to smallholders growing burley tobacco
would come from the existing services and facilities. Strengthening of the
Department of Lands to enforce lease covenants is expected to involve
additional three inspectors and vehicles, coupled with mobilization of
support from existing district administration staff. This would be
financed mainly by reallocation of funds from within the available
budgetary resources.
Social Impact
116.     The main thrust of the Program is to improve the supply response
in the agricultural sector, particularly with regard to the smaller
smallholders who constitute the majority of the poor and who have benefited
little from the past adjustment efforts. The program would have a positive
impact on the general level of rural incomes mainly through introduction of
high-yielding flint maize, expended access to fertilizers, and permitting
smallholders to growS burley tobacco. Although the growing of burley
tobacco by smallh.soldr  msy sl^w down the epanesion o-r -state burley
tobacco and thus the growth of employment opportunities in tobacco estates,
this would be more than offset by the fact that smallholder production is
more labor intensive, by a factor of about 1.3, than estate production.
Also, measures to encourage greater land utilization in estates would
increase overall employment opportunities, an important source of income
for the poorer smallholders in Malawi. As with past adjustment reforms,
some of the macroeconomic policy changes will have a negative impact on the
poor while others will have a positive impact. Policy changes with a



- 43 -
negative impact on the poor include budgetary restraints, increased
consumer prices for maize arising from higher fertilizer costs due to
reduction of subsidies and exchange rate adjustments. Policy changes with
a positive impact include measures to reduce inflation and to liberalize
imports. In the short-run, the proposed Credit will help to minimize the
negative impact on the poor through reducing fertilizer subsidies gradually
so as to avoid a rapid escalation of maize prices; and strengthening the
capability to monitor such impact so that actions can be taken to ease the
negative impact. Over the medium term, the Credit will help the poor by
increasing the productivity of their land and labor through the development
of high-yielding flint maize and expanded fertilizer use, and by targeting
burley tobacco and agricultural credit to the food-deficient households.
Environmental Impact
117.     The major cause of degradation of the environment in Malawi is the
high rate of population growth in the face of severe land shortage and
limited availability of technological packages to increase crop yields.
The proposed Credit will have a positive impact on the environment, mainly
through supporting measures tot (a) reduce population pressure on land by
increasing crop yields through developing high-yielding maize varieties
that most of the farmers will find appropriate to grow, and expanding
availability of fertilizers; (b) restructure agricultural expenditures to
improve allocations to recurrent costs for extension staff, including those
concerned with soil conservation; (c) allow smallholders to grow burley
tobacco, which is less demanding on fuelwood than the type of tobacco
smallholders are now allowed to grow; and (d) enforce compliance with
covenants relating to afforestation in estate lands. To minimize pest and
disease problems associated with mono-variety cropping and to reduce the
need for agro-chemicals, the Government, with support from CIMMYT, is
ensuring that the maize breeding program will develop several varieties of
high-yielding flint maize and that it will address pests and diseases
through resistant strains. At negotiations, the Government agreed to
submit to IDA for review the list of agro-chemicals recommended for use in
the country.
Risks
118.     The main risks are related to:  (a) possible opposition from
groups that may be adversely affected by some of the reforms envisaged
under the Credit; (b) uncertainties common to agricultural research; and
(c) external shocks.  Strong opposition may be encountered from estate
farmers, many of whom are influential political figures and civil servants,
aQainst adit:itm.nt *f esntte land lease rent and a1lowir;g smallholders to
grow burley tobacco.  In addition, while there has been a growing awareness
of the widespread poverty, there is still a political reluctance to
recognize the severity of the problem, particularly with regard to
smallholders. This political reluctance may underminu the commitment to
carry out new major reforms directed at benefiting mainly the resource-poor
smallholders, such as the proposed targeting of income generating
activities. To address these risks, most of the politically-difficult



- 44 -
actions were taken before Board presentation, while others will be
conditions for the release of the second tranche.
119.     A major objective of the program is to develop a high-yielding
maize variety that most of the farmers will find appropriate to grow.
Although a sound action plan has been prepared, the development of such a
maize variety is subject to the uncertainties common to any biological
research activities. The uncertainty will be reduced through the
continuation of technical support from, and close monitoring by, CIMMYT'S
team of experts located in Zimbabwe. A similar situation applies to the
pilot schemes envisaged under the Credit to target income-earning
activities, including fertilizer subsidies, to the resource poor farmers;
the design of these schemes will incorporate a system to monitor them
closely so as to enable corrective action in a timely manner with a view to
enhancing the chances of success.
120.     The commitment to implement the program may be impaired by a
recurrence of major external shocks, such as prolonged droughts, decline in
export prices or further transport disruptions, leading to poor economic
growth and thus reducing the benefits expected from the program; or by
inadequate flow of external funds on concessional terms to support the
program. To minimize the risks relating to the macroeconomic policies,
IDA, in conjunction with the IMF under the PFP process, will closely
monitor implementation progress and trends of the key macroeconomic
variables and maintain an active dialogue with the Government to encourage
Government to respond appropriately to any unfavorable external
development. With regard to external assistance, there is considerable
goodwill among donors towards Malawi, which should be readily translated
into tangible financial assistance.
PART VI:  RECOMMENDATION
121.     I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, DC
March 6, 1990



ANNEX 1
- 45  -                                                  Page
1989 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
25M 30     1-20       t#t        So,k hehr
_  s,g~~~~~~~~~(e t)                                           SW
HUMAN RESOURCES
ShPgew gVOUIh,     dpapUtMI
Todi                                      n36iasp                        .4        33          *                       1
14 p7d'AM Om - IM)                  3            4        8&18      ~~~~46662
51.8       506        513        54        60         57.4
udi             0l         Ol         0.9.9                             0.74
*dpap.             52         ?7.7      13.4       31.7       34.         5
UIba                                                         ..          ..         .. . ..
Ruad                                                         ..          ..        ..          .          ..
P   l1acnrwth mic                    41213011            2.3        2.9        3.1        3.1        2.0        2.2
PV &tg h                                     " e             525        7.5        8.6        6.1         3.7        3.5
U_ _mlIpwthdieax dtee                                        33         4.9        6.1         4.1        2.2        2.5
miMnu               ..         ..      I2.2        673       3,625        805
Suyporal  *   ..  ..  96647
IY jbiwh .p P.                                              560         55.6      53.1        47.2       30.4       31.5
Twal fcniliye raw                   wiwoper  m            7.75       7.66       7.60       6.56       3.89        4.08
Canuscq2Iiweva1mfoe          ~        dwof1      1549        ..         ..         ..         ..       57.4
Cmd (0.4) /woman (1549) rps 
Ugg                                       300 mn             ..         ..         ..
=ddealtb F                             pVWlaba. pop.       263        23.3       19.6       i5,8       I0.0         8.6
Ifd  moSrtYe                        pWtbalivil dhs        199.8      182.6      !            3                       I
VndS=M On                                                                       0 ..  2.00  1n.4      174.68      1965
Life cseqcwanc ai bih: overall            Man              39.1       42.0       46.0       506        61.4       63.8
female                                 39.8       42.9       47.7       523        62.3        66.8
I.Abortbrare.(1S.
TOullbborfee                              mn=i0s 94                     RO38      3.33        189       1.343       232
1u                                ' dIsabr ferns         L'        It            ..                    ..
mwiauy                                     ~~~        ~~~~~~3.2  5.6
Fale                                                       45.5       44.7       41.7       38.0       36.0       31.2
Females per 1O00m!.
U,ban                                    mamber              ..         ..         ..
Rnd
Pefic4otion aw:oveu11                  *dofRorforce         48.9       46.1       43.3        41.6       49.2       39.0
fanale                                        42.8       39.8       35.6       3Q.S       34.9       23.5
EduediMl  mbl.u atlabor ae
School yeam campland: oval                                    ..         ..         ..
mink                                       ..         ..         ..         .           ..
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                    thau. mq. m          1I         118        118      22,242     36997      17.083
Densm                                   a      q.e r .=km     34         44         67         20         76         36
Agded"micaInualld                       Waland              32.3       34.8       35.6       32.7        361        38.3
*  Agric~z1wrJdeasizy                   n.persa.ltm          104        127        187         62        211         94
Famu -ad wood1zd                        tiusL sq.lu51                    51         44      6.634       9,154      5,449
0.0        0.0       -2.4        0.5       .03         0.7
Aum  tonler                               *afzpap.            ..         ..       95.0        36..
Urba .w                                                                          97.        755        73.4       76.
Rundl                                                        .500                           24.i!                 46.3
Population gowb                             Infant moraity                       Prnmy school enroment
'b .~~~~~~~~1 1120.
4                                                                                   U
2                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0                                                                                    a 
NOTE: Population data included here dues nor reflect recent adjustments made to the
1987 census data.



- 46 -                                                     ANNEX   1
Page        2
Mlawi
1989 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
mn Sa   resiu wo   gro Nnc  8
25.30      1520        reu         Sub.                   h
Una00           Ym         y=.          itf      S ,.M
owaJ            ago         490        (We)       NNW 8tom              grow
INCOMEANDIPOVERTY
income
GNPperc j*u (mm =1988)                        USS                60         122         160        320         310       1.270
Toe!tkUdIO&ldwW
Sh tob       40dh                                      .        ..          ..         ..
Shtobm20 209bmieod d b                                                      ..
POVv
Absdute pavaty ince: ubi                  USS perpc               ..         ..          ..p..
meal~~~                                     ~ ..  ..        ..           .           ..
Pop. in absoW pwvety wbm                    % o.pop.              ..         ..          ..
me.                                          ..         ..          .....
P,vaunem of uanuifiotd (ucbr 5)           9   f&goep              ..         ..        22.6
EXPE IDTrr
Food                                        % of GDP              ..       42.2        22.9
teai,flsdmll,cfi   eu                                                      6.8        8.5
Mca        mikunouim                    thaLun.mectxmns          19          41         11      8I252       27,738      36,712
rXoodidiMBeSNd.                    4 ..0  109  3786  7122  7051
.:oodpioduhiubmprcuina                     1979.8IcIE0         82.2        95.8        829         4.4       1\6.4       47.0
SbamecfarklwlzuomnODP                        dOfGDP             49.9       39.2        37.2       35.1        33.0        16.0
Daily camene mmmv                       cdaikFa pperon        2.244       2,473       2,310      2,095       2392        2.767
DnRypewain anj~tjvuma perpeanc                                   66          72         65          52          57         70
Ho_u                                        *dOfDP                ..        4.9         6.8
Avobnu       ad ZS                     penwn pe houseold         ..           3          ..
Uwban~~ ~ ..                                                4          ..          .           ..
Fixed invenam   boudog                      * o GDP               ..        3.6         1.1
Fud md pro                                   *ofIGDP              ..        2.1         3.6
uds gIs le=yiz                          1 of ol v eqni          25.3       46.4        40s        103.7      323.7       886.3
Uda                                     *th        <.........o..sebo&ds
Rum!"                                                            ..         ..         ..          .           ..
Tvapqwtmda _mmuukatlm                       I*ofGDP               ..        6.0         7.8
Poulbmperpusqp echr                         __Car621                        477        542           ..         ..         27
FdLnvedim enia mponeqWpmm                   rofGDP                ..        6.7         2.2
TOsIl                                          km                 ..         ..    13.280
Pqui   paismjmrsdqi2tuq                      peuus                ..        262        164           ..         ..         16
lNVE9rMET IN HUMAN CAPIAL
M     lcdicm                                *odGDP                ..        1.5         2.1
Pcpula byuiolm                 per"ous          47..Z1          ..     161.54          "        1462       1547
nix'.                            M.             140.iui      5.333      13.135.                  .
bohosptbod                                          ...                     ..                    56
A     b toheaf can                            opp.                ..         ..        54.0
lnnhnized (ider 12 maWbs): ese            % n d  o"Poop           .           .        53.0       52.9        43.4        62.i
D PT"                                   .                    55.0       45.7        41.3        64.7
OmlRedyduicnTbah        0 yue(_Md5)         *     s               ..         ..        42.0       18.4        21.6        28.2
EdAcaUs                                    q,of GDP              ..        3.1         8.2
GOm   esmimni muos
Pnn nr.u tow                        *deafsh4gtoup            44.0          ..       640         78.0       99.3       106.8
fnum d t                                              320           ..       55.0        67.6        87.8      101.3
Swcoodazy:ita                                                             6.42                              33.4        52.0
pot&iucbeu61                                  3          4 106
= my uqscicAsp   ii searr                        20         19          21         35          19          18
PepiJnmasing                               9bofbqg                ..       66.5        63            ..         ..        81.0
Rebmarm  ~  ~      ~     ~       is! micUmz             .        16.5        2IOL.                     .         8.0
nirnU; fee:                             *dpq*(orl %6                                   5.         53.4        43.3        26.2
Id f_(ma  01e5'+o5 )       *-         *-        69.2       64.0        56.5        3L5
Newnspperdrwlade                          peethe. pep.            ..         ..         5.2        5.2        204         79.3
s~ W          *3biInfi_o__ 1 hI.



- 47 -                                    ANNEX   1
Page    3
MALAWI
KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 198C-95
----q----tu l--- -- ----  ------ ----------ro-----------
-------Actual-----------------  PrJoeted -----------
1985   1986   1987   1088     1989   1990   1901   1M    1998   1994   1996
GOP Growth Rate (factor cost)       4.5    1.1    1.4    8.0      8.7    4.1    4.8    4.5   4.5    5.9   5.O
CDY Growth Rat.                     8.7  -2.1    9.6    6.7       8.7   8.6    4.9    5.7    5.8    5.1   5.0
CDY/Capita Orowth Rate              0.6  -5.8  -2.7    8.6        0.5    0.4    1.7   2.5    1.8    1.9   1.8
Consumption/Capita Growth Rate     -1.8  -4.0  -6.9    6.7        1.2   0.2    0.1    0.4    0.6    0.7   0.9
Debt Service (USD million) El]    128.1  155.4  141.8  148.6   184.5  19.0  109.3  112.2 1U2.7  196.5  126.2
Debt Sqrvic4/XCS                   44.5  57.8  46.9  48.9    87.5  27.6  25.8  24.8  20.4  19.6  21.7
Debt Service/CDP                   10.9  18.0  11.8  10.0         8.0   7.1    6.7    6.8    5.4    5.1    5.6
Grows Investment/GDP [2]           18.5  11.8  14.1  16.1    17.8  15.9  15.6  16.6  16.6   17.6  18.0
Stock Changoe/DP                    6.2   0.2    1.8    8.1       8.1    6.6    0.8    0.6    1.8   1.6   1.6
Fixed Investment/CDP               18.8   11.1  12.8  18.0    14.2  14.6  15.0  16.7  15.5  10.0  18.6
Public Inwestment/CDP               3.8    7.8    6.6    6.2      6.2    5.7    5.8   5.8    5.6    5.8   5.8
Private Investment/CDP             11.7    8.6    8.6  10.9    12.1    9.8    9.9  10.6  11.8  12.2  12.7
Public Invest./Private Invest.      O.6    2.2    .7   0.6    09.4    4.6    0.6    9.5    0.6    0.4   0.4
Domestic Saving /CDP               18.1   9.2  11.9   7.6         6.9    7.e   8.5  10.4  11.5   12.5  18.8
National Ssvings/CPP                9.4   5.6    9.2    7.8       0.9    6.1    7.8    9.6  11.1  12.1  12.6
Public Savings/GDP                 -2.8  -4.6  -4.5  -1.8    -1.2  -1.0  -1.0  -1.1  -1.4  -1.s   4.8
Privet. Savings/GDP                12.2  10.1  18.7   9.6    10.1   6.2    8.4  19.7  12.4  18.2  18.4
Oovernment Revenues/COP t4]        21.9  21.1  19.6  20.4    19.8  19.6  19.4  19.4  19.4  19.4  19.4
Government Expenditures/GOP        81.9  84.2  28.8  27.0    25.7  26.5  26.2  26.8  26.8  25.6  26.8
Fiscal Deficit/CDP                -109.  -18.0  -9.1   4.6       4.8  -4.9  -6.9  -4.9   4.9  -4.2  -5.0
Consumer Price Index Change        14.9  14.8  28.8  81.4    15.9   12.6   7.5    5.O    5.0    5.e    5.9
Roal Exchange Rate (1980 a 100)    96.9  66.6  77.8   82.8         ..    ..    ..    ..
Export Crorth Rate                 -2.8    8.0   4.7   -4.9       4.4    7.7   4.8    4.2    4.8    4.6   4.8
Exports/GDP                        24.4  22.7  24.1  22.7    21.8  26.6  26.8  26.1  26.8  20.2  26.9
Import Growth Rate (6]             14.5  -14.7  -2.1  27.6        9.5   6.2   4.6   4.2    8.7   8.7   8.8
Imports/GDP                        29.2  24.7  26.8  81.2    81.0  84.6  38.7  82.5  81.9  81.4  89.9
Current Account (USD million) E6]-102.8  -74.4 -45.4 -120.1  -142.1 -161.2 -188.6 -122.0 -1109. -111.9 -119.7
Current Account/GDP                -8.6   -5.7  -4.8  -8.8       -8.4  -9.9  -8.4  -4.0   -6.8  -5.4  -653
External Reserves (USO million)    42.7  20.1  45.4  141.9   162.8  170.1  1786  179.9  169.6  178.5  195.7
Ext. Rea. In Months of Import.      1.7   0.9    1.8    4.6       4.2    4.8    4.2    8.9   8.6    8.6   8.6
Source: Second Year Policy Framework Paper and Staff estimates.
tl] Debt service Is calculated before debt relief and after debt conversion.
2] Investment Includes stock-building. Parnstatal Investment that Is not part of the Central Government
Budget Is Included under private sector data.
[8] National savings In 1989-90 1i signiticantly affected by change In the level of emergency
grants for refugees Included In current transfers.
(4] Fiscal date Is presented on fiscal year basis beginning April 1 of year Indicated. Government revenuco
excludes official grants.
t6I Import growth rate excludes emergency Imports for refugess.
>!'!<:eraccoun=s;rt i^u*   te.   Wnaa  ;_.*-  i'w--                   -*-             -



ANNEX    I
- 48 -                                     Page      4
MALAWI
EXTERNAL FINANCING REqUIREMENTS, 19J9-O996
(In Millone of USO)
------,----------------_-----_-,----------
1089    190     1991    1092    1008    1994    1995
FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
A. Current Account Deficits E1]          142.1   161.2   188.6  122.0   110.8   111.9   119.7
B. Amortization (23                       66.8   46.9   48.2    64.9    68.2    61.6    78.9
C. Change In Net Reserves                 66.8    87.1    26.7    12.8      4.8     9.8    29.9
1. Gross Resorve Change                11.8    17.9     6.8   -6.5    -1.8       8.9    12.2
2. IMF Repurchasee (83                 26.6    18.6   20.4    18.8       5.6     5.4      8.7
3. Arears Change                        9.9     9.e     *.0      *.*     *.*      e.*    *.o
4. Other Liabilities                   29.4     0.7     e.9      6.o     6.9     *.6     6.9
Total Financing Requirement.             274.7   284.2  218.5   189.7   172.6   182.6   218.6
FINANCING SOURCES
_________________
A. Existing Disbursement. (41
1. Grants                              86.0    48.4    88.8    18.8    11.6      6.6      1.8
Of which adJustment:             87.6    10.2     0.0     6.6      6.6     9.0     6.9
2. Loans                              128.7    67.4    68.1    61.5    89.2    86.0    85.2
a. Bllateral Creditor.               9.4     5.7     1.9      0.9     0.4     0.0     0.0
Of which adjustmnt:             6.o     6.6     6.o     o.6      6.9     9.o     6.6
b. Multilateral Creditors           93.4    46.0    88.8    28.8    18.7      8.8     5.1
Of which World Banks           81.8    40.1    29.8    22.6    18.7      8.6     5.1
Of which adjustment:           87.7     0.0     0.0     6.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
c. Private Creditor.                21.0    16.7    22.6    26.9    25.1    27.2    80.1
8. Other Capital ES]                    0.2     6.2     0.1      0.2     0.1     6.6     6.6
4. IMF Purchases (8                   25.0    25.0,   12.6       0.0    6.6     6.o     6.6
Total Existing Olebursenents          218.9   141.0   14.6   70.0    60.9    42.6    86.6
Of which adJustment:.                75.2    10.2     o.6      6.6     6.0     9.6     6.6
B. Expected Disbursement.
1. Grants                              18.0    28.2    16.1    21.2    85.0    88.9    42.6
Of which adjustment:              18.0    28.2     5.4     6.0      6.6     6.6     6.6
2. Loans                               24.1    65.9   92.9    98.6    86.9   99.2   118.7
a. Bilateral Creditor.              10.2    20.4    19.6   28.8    14.0    16.6    17.0
Of which adjustments           10.2   20.4    16.8    15.8       0.0     e.9     9.9
b. Multilateral Creditors           18.9    44.6    72.6    78.9    71.4    82.0   166.6
Of which World Bank:            6.0    86.7    64.6    67.8    44.1    61.6    66.6
Of which adJustment:           18.9    44.8    68.1    46.8    16.7    21.2    88.6
c. Private Creditors                 0.0     0.6     0.4     0.8      1.4     1.6     1.7
8. IMF Purchase.                        0.0     6.0     6.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Expected Disbursements           42.1    98.2   109.0   119.7   121.9   188.1  161.8
Of which adJustment:                 42.1    98.2    76.8    60.1    16.7    21.2    88.6
C. Debt Relief (E6                        18.7     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     6.0     0.0
Total Financing Sources                  274.7   234.2   218.6   180.7   172.6   180.7   198.1
FINANCING CAP                                0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.6    -2.1   -16.6
Sourco: Second-Year Policy Framework Paper and Staff estimates.
11 Current account excludes official transfers but Include emergency grants for refusee.
Amortization io calculated before debt relief and debt conversion.
C  IMF flows assume disburement of third arrangement under the ESAF.
Disbursements from commIt.nto existin as of end-1900.
5 Other capital Includes other long-term, short-term, and unidentified flows.
6 Debt relief for 1988-89 to based on Aoril 1988 London and Paris Clubs agreoments.



ANNEX    I
- 49 -                                       Page      5
MAUAWI
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1965-1905
(In millions of USD)
- -------ctu 1---- -- o__ ___ -----------  Pro--:--------------
------ Actual---------- -------    --Projected-----------
1986   196   1997   1983     1989   1990   1l91   192   1998   1934   1995
---       ----------                        --     - -    - -    --
Exports of Goods &  FS          292.6  296.6  107.2  827.2    856.0  890.6  428.2  462.1  608.5  542.8 562.7
Merchnndle (FOB)            264.1  271.6  204.1  801.2    889.1  880.2  890.1  426.7  465.2  601.1  688.8
Non-Factor Servicoe           27.9  26.0   28.1   26.1       26.5   89.6  88.1  56.5   86.3   41.1   44.3
Imports of 4oods and NFS        849.4  824.4  884.6  460.6    521.4  526.5  554.2  56N.1  J09.7  649.6  689.2
Mforchandlie (FOB)           181.7  166.8  176.8  247.8    286.8 266.2  812.6  886.9  088.9  809.7  415.5
Non-Factor Serviceo          167.7  156.6  1d$.8 208.8   285.4  288.2  241.7  286.1  246.3  281.2  277.6
Resource Balaneo                -57.4  -27.6  -27.6 -128.8   -162.6 -1aS.. -181.* -114.6 -186.2 -107.6 -110.5
Net Factor Incom                -56.9  -66.8  -56.0  -66.2   -61.9  -46.9  -44.9  -44.2  -45.8  -47.8  -58.1
Factor Recelpts                6.6    8.6    8.8    6.9    10.6   11.8  12.2  12.6  12.6  12.8  18.6
Factor Paywents               61.7  69.9  61.$  68.8         62.5  68.2  57.1  56.7  67.8   60.1  66.7
o/w interost paymnts       47.8   U6.6  61.4   52.0       46.7   42.9  49.7   89.9   8.8  S9.6   44.6
Net Current Transfers            11.1  19.6   29.2   59.4       72.6   81.8   87.8   86.2   41.8   48.0   48.9
Curront Receipts til          22.7   27.7   86.1  74.5    68.4  47.9  64.8  54.5   U.6  68.2  86.1
o/w workeo r lttances                           22.8      28.4   24.6   26.6   27.1   28.5   29.9   81.4
Current Payment.              11.7    6.9   14.9   16.1      15.6   16.6   17.4   16.8   19.2   29.2   21.2
Current Account Balance        -102.8  -74.4  -65.4 -129.1   -142.1 -151.2 -18.6 -122.0 -119.8 -111.9 -119.7
Long-Term Copital Inflow 23     46.2  76.'5 11.O  16U.0   164.7  168.8  162.6  184.6  114.6  119.1  126.1
Net Government Transfers      26.0  81.'  89.7   96.6        68.0  76.6   49.9   89.5   46.6   45.6  44.1
Net Long-Tern Loans           29.4   52.9   64.6   67.6      61.6   86.5   .892.6  95.1   67.9   78.6   61.0
Disbursement               66.5  115.0  118.7  187.6    147.8  182.4  151.9  159.0  126.1  185.2  154.0
Repaymnt                   87.1  68.9  49.1  70.9    66.8  46.9  46.2  64.9  569.2  91.6   78.O
Other Long-Term Inflowo      -10.2   -6.8    5.7  -0.2        0.2    0.2    O.1    0.2   9.1    0.0   09.
Short-Ters and Unidentifled       8.2  -86.4   17.7   46.9       9.o    9.9    9.9    9.o   9.9    o.9    9.o
Overall Balance                 -49.9  -86.2   58.   868.0      22.6   12.1   14.2   12.8    4.8    7.2    6.4
Fllncing                        46.9  86.2  -68.8  -68.6   -22.6  -12.1  -14.2  -12.8  -4.8   -9.8  -20.9
Change In Net Roerveo         41.8  26.7  -45.9 -100.7   -41.8  -12.1  -14.2  -12.8  -4.8  -9.8  -20.9
Net IMF Credit [3]          7.6  -26.4  -81.1  -1.7       -0.6    6.6  -7.9  -18.8  -5.8   -5.4  -6.7
Change Gross Rserves       19.5   89.9  -24.7  -98.1    -11.8  -17.9  -4.8    5.5    1.8   -8.9  -12.2
Change Other Llability     14.0   20.8    9.7   -0.8    -29.4   -0.7   0.0    o.9    9.o    o.9    o.9
Change In Ext. Arrrers         0.0   61.4  -12.5  -45.6       o.9    9.o    9.o    9.9    9.0    o.9    9.9
Debt Relief d 43               7.2    8.1    9.6   62.7      16.7    9.9    o.9    o.9    9.9 o    .o    9.9
Financing Gap                     9.o    9.9    9.o    o.o       9.9    9.o    9.o    o.9    9.9  -2.1  -15.5
-   m   msl uui   -                      au m   mu    .i  
Msmorandum Items
Shares of GDP (current USD):
Resource Balance              -5.1   -2.4   -2.2   -6.6      -9.7   -6.9   -8.0   -6.4   -6.6  -5.2   -4.9
Dobt Service                  10.9   18.0   11.8   10.0       8.0    7.1    6.7    6.8    5.4    5.1    5.6
Current Account               -6.6   -5.7   -4.6   -8.8      -6.4   -9.9   -8.4  -4.9   -5.8   -5.4   -5.8
Long-Term Capital Inflow       4.0  68.       8.2   10.9      9.6   10.7.   9.8    7.8    6.9   5.7    6.6
Not IMF Credit                 0.7  -2.2   -2.5  -0.1         o.9   0.4  -O.5   -1.   -4.8  -0.8   -0.4
Foreign Exchange Reserves:
R eerve L vol                 42.7   20.1   45.4  141.0   152.8  179.1  176.6  170.9  169.6  178.5  106.7
In Months of Impor             1.7    6.9    1.6    4.6       4.2    4.8    4.2    8.9    8.6    8.1    8.6
Source: Second Year Policy FPrmwork Paper and Staff estimtes.
I1 Current rwelpc t  Includes emergency grants for refugee  In 1980-89.
Capital account Includes disburements from existing as well as expected commitmnts.
IM f flos *ssume disbursemnt of third arrangement under the ESAf.
4 Debt relief for 1980-09 1 bas  on agrements nogotiated with London and Paris Clubs In April 1980.



ANNEX   I
- 50 -                                         Page    6
MALAWI
FOREIGN EXCHANGE REQUIREMENTS AND DEBT SERVICE ASSUMPTIONS, 1986-1998
(In millions of USD)
1985-87           1988-90           l991-98
Grove Disburemento (1]
Multilateral                 266.7             286.8              289.4
Bilateral                    141.9             818.8              198.6
Private                       17.0               68.1              77.1
IMF E2]                       28.4              76.0              12.6
TOTAL                     489.0             746.7             S76.5
Net Disbureoments
_________________
Multilateral                 187.2             228.8              219.6
Bilateral                     99.8             260.9              186.9
Private                      -77.2               8.8               48.8
IMF                          -47.5              -2.1             -81.8
TOTAL                     181.8             486.4             869.9
Principal Repayennts E8]
_______________ ___
Multilateral                  88.6              67.0              89.9
Bilateral                     42.6              67.9              60.6
Private                       94.2              67.8               80.8
IMF                           70.9              77.1              44.8
TOTAL                     276.2             269.8             206.8
Interest Payments (4]
Multilateral                  89.0              61.8              66.4
Bilateral                     80.1              37.1              26.3
Private                       26.4              21.8               19.7
IMF                           28.7              19.9               7.1
___ __ -_              _            __-__
TOTAL                     148.2             140.8             118.5
Debt ServicO
Multilateral                 187.6             118.8              186.8
Bilateral                     72.7             106.0              86.9
Private                      119.6              79.1               60.6
IMF                           94.8              97.0              51.4
TOTAL                     424.4             899.9             324.1
Source: Second Year Policy Framework Paper and Staff estimates.
(1] Includes not official transfers, disburseoents from existing end expected
conitments   nd net short-term external borrowing.
E2] Includes third arrangment under the ESAF.
E  Calculated before debt relief and debt conversion.
[4]Calculated before debt rellef and Includes lnterest on short-term external debt.



- 51-                                                      ANNEX  2
Page       I
Status Of Bank Group Operations In NALAWI
PFDBR25 - Sumary Statement Of Loans and IDA Credits
ILDA data as of 2/30/90 - HIS data as of 03/13190)
Aeount in USS million
(less cancellations)
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                          Undis-  Closing
Credit No.   Year   Borrower                           Purpose                        Bank          IDA     bursed   Date
Credits
32 Credits(s) c1csed                                                                             405.96
C13300-NAL  1983    NALAWI                              EDUCATION V                               34.00       4.40  09/30/90(R)
C13430-NAL  1993    NALAWI                              WROP IV                                   10.60       4.90  09/30/90(R)
CF0060-HAL  1994    NALAWI                              NIGNWAYS V                                13.80        1.64  09/30/90
C14230-NAL  1984      AlKANI                           HIGHAYS V                                 13.10        1.15  09130/90
C15280-NAL  1985    MALAWI                             URBAN I                                    15.00      14.94  06/30/91
C15490-NAL  1985    MALAWI                             A6RI RES.                                 23.80      1(.09  10/31/90
C16260-NAL  1986    MALAWI                             EXT. PLANNING                              11.60       9.43  09/01/91
C17420-NAL  1997    HALANI                             LILONN6E WATER (NTR                       20.00        9.13  06130/93
C17670-NAL  1987    MALAWI                             ED. SECTOR CREDIT 1                       27.00       22.96  12/151/93
C17690-NAL  1987    NALANI                             HEALTH/POP.II                              11.00       5.19  06/30193
C18510-MAL  1988    NALANI                              AGRICULTURE CREDIT                         5.90       5.66  06130/95
C18790-NAL  1988    NALANI                             TRANSPORT 1                                13.40       7.08  06/30194
C19200-NAL  1989    NALANI                              IND/TRADE POL.ADJ.CR                     70.00               12/31/90
C19201-NAL  1999    MALAWI                              IND/TRADE POL.ADJ.CR                      5.20               1213119O
C19660-HRL  1989    NALAWI                             AGRI.NARKETIN6 & EST                       18.30      16.84  06/30/96
C19qO0-KAL  1989    MALAWI                             ENERGY 1                                  46.70       44.41  12/31/94
C20360-NAL  1989    NALAWI                              INSTIT.DEV.                               11.30       9.41  12/31/94
C19202-NAL  1990    MALAWI                              IND/TRADE POL.ADJ.CR                      4.70        5.01  12131/90
C20690-NAL  1990    NALAWI                              INFRASTRUCTURE 1                         28.80       29.42  12131195
C20830-NAL  1990    MALAWI                             EDUC.SEC.I1                               36.90       39.92  06130/16
TOTAL nueber Credits      20                                                                      421.10      248.54
Loans
6 Loans(s) closed                                                                   74.95
L23630-NAL  1984    MALAWI                             HIGHWAYS V                    18.00                      .61  09/30/90
L24960-HAL  1985    NALAWI                             VOOD IND.RESTR.TAS             4.92                           03131191
L26460-NAL  1986    MALAWI                              IND. & AGRIC. CR.             7.80                    3.63  06/30/93
L26700-MAL  [986    NALANI                              WOOD EGY.11                    .78                           06/30/93
TOTAL nueber Loans       4                                                            31.50                     4.24
TOTALed                                                            106.45       827.06
of which repaid                                                   24.44        13.57
TOTAL held by Bank & IDA                                            62.00       813.50
Aeount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                           252.78
Notes:
* Not yet effective
Nc Not yet signed
*. Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
(R) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical value. all others are market value.
The Signing. Effectiv91 and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
from the Task Dudget flQe.



-52-                                                 ANNEX  2
Page    2
Statut of IIC Imiotata
u of Sept 30, 109
Imt                                     Type of
bibr        n               Obligor    lluiu.         lan  ltity   Total
UU illior -- -----
32641      1176
01641      1902   D ikitebst & Sou        Textiles    10.8             10.6
362-4  17/TL85   bus SWu  Corp               SWu      11.3             11.3
4341       1979            mm         hI,Ot lium               0.6      0.6
5024! 110/84    IIwulotll Ltd              Towin       2.1              2.1
54341      131
6144       It62       Itiml Co Ltd      Itmkoh         2.2      0.3     2.5
63241      1166 Louiua ItiamCo    /Capkrkt             0.7      0.1     0.6
7414!    1t65
67241      116       fipk1 mlim            P11.0       4.1     0.5      4.6
TOWl koma Cmitnt                       3.2      1.5    32.7
La: Caslltim, temlutio,
xgm eijut         , "eponta,
uiteffl, | aid                  16.7      0.0    16.7
fea  cmt a  elld bY IIC                14.5     1.5    16.0
Ieta h    erd                           0.7     0.0     0.7
fOWl 0l.w                              13.8     1.5    15.3



I#IlL1WAL SECTO ADJRMlnIT CREDIT
Pat  Strwtral Adjwtomt Operations
Id"dri-l ad Trad Policy
sAI. I Wm                      SEL It (F1S4                    SAL III (FN) -            SAL II Ssolesent (FIB7)          Adnotl CJredi (FM i)
Aflrica FacIity  l.0            Special Jeist                    Japan          2C.
Special Joint                   Flnlancin            U,F         EEC            1.5.6
Fimeacing       29.6            USAID                15.6        MF             17.2
mCD         WnUSAD        U.2
Germany       1U.2
Netherlands      3.9
NAI OBJECTIE                    NAIN OBJECTIES                   AIN OJECTIVES                  MAI OBJECTIES                     AIN OIECTIVES
1. Diversify export base.       1. Diversify export bea.        1. Dlivsify eort baee.          1. EVped role of private        1. Improve policy
2. Encourage efficiet           2. E_csurg  efficient           2. Promote exports.             sector is marketing of          environmnt for the
import Ca titutioe.             Import substitutloe.            S. Strengthen Govermwt aIIIolder                                manufacturing sector to
S. Ensure appropriste price    8. Ensre adsq_at                 policy-soking capebiliti..     2. improve fa       l           increas efficiency of
ad itcom  policy.                neati_te.                      4. Improve perforance of        perfoermace and operationel     roeorce  s and oxped
4. Improve public sector's      4. Improve public mactr'es      Developm1n Institutioen.        efficiency of, AOMRC.           emloyest Nd export.
financial performec.            financial pwrfeoma .                                            S. Strengthen Food Scrity                                        n
S. Stragate  Covemat's          S. StregUtba policy-mehig                                       plasing capabi ity.
scoai}c plnni  and              capabilities.
moitoring caeblItr.
MAIN ACTIKIS TAKEN              MAIN ACTiONS TAKE               MAIN ACTIONS TAKEN              MAI ACTIONS TAKEN                    ACTIONS TAKEM
Exech-saeq -                    Eu        ate:                  Exchange r to:                  Exc  nm rate-:                  Each*    rate:
AdjciTd p rlodical IV.                    to b adjusted         Caduted to    duStetd.td
periodically, *ad deacha mme
tied to a bskeit of
currencles.
Aariculture                     Agriculture                     Aaricultore                     Aeiculture                      Aariculture
1. S_llboldwr producr           1. Sallboldw producer           1. Smllholder prices            1. Intra-reglotol               1. Beef pries decostrolled.
prices Increased anally,        pries Increased, using Sank    continue  to be adjusted,        differentiated preducer aNd
notably for maie, using         *thodology.                     usig SBwk mathodology.          consumar maize prices
methodology deslgned by the     2.  UAIRC's financial           2. Ag uent reached with         impOesanted to expend the
Bank                             agemast capability             the SeB  to poetone             role of private sector In
strengthened                    *limination of ferti Iisr      _rketing mlIholder crops
8. Ferth  lieu subidies        subsdies to 198s/9.            ecept tobacco ad  cattn.
red       an expected td be    S. Divestiture of AMWC'.    2. Governmt tesk over fus
elimliated by loss/Ie.          Investments unrelated to       ASAIC  the finniang of
mrketing mse initiated.         strategic grain reserves.
8. Divestiture of AMMC                                       O.
investmenta unrelated to
marktino activities was



accelerated.
Indutry                          Induttr Indstr" Industry
1. Reduction (f  41) of          1. Elimination of Item                                            1.  Redution of scope  of
Item  subject to price          subject to price control,                                          Industrial liewsing
cormol                           *xewpt perol, low-grede                                           requie t,  d V limination
bef, fertillsre, swgpa and                                       of authority to grant
vehicle spare Pertu                                               exclusive product rights..
2. Revision of lndutrial                                          2. Studies don  to Impro
Development Act to encourage                                      inatitutlonal aod reglatiag
competitioc                                                       frammorw  for smell-scale
enterprises.
Export Promotion                 Export Promtion                  Export Promotion                 Export Promotion                 Eamort Promotion
1. Preparation of an export                                       1. Reduction of the eope of
prootion strategy.                                                export licensing.
2. Es_eblishment of export                                        2. Revision of duty dran
financing facility.                                               back.
S. Introduction of surtax
credit system.
Resource Mobilization aod        Resource Mobilization and        Resource Mobilization and        Reource Mobilization and         Resource Mobilliation and
_  Maao  anme_                   ansaenen nnst-nt -t
1. Expnsion of the tax base   1. Improved buoyancy of tex    1. Furter tax Incrs_ems on                                             1. Reduction of financial
and increasing tex rates.        system                          s*lected Item,                                                     deficit.
2. Strengthening Government    2. Increasd noo-tx                 2. Adjastent-of the tex                                           2. Preparation of a 3-year
capability for macroeconomic    revowne from bhighe f_m *ad    syste  to Impro  efficiency                                          rolling Public Sector
nd sectoral plmaingo  and        levies,                           nd Incentive.                                                    Investment Progrm.
public debt moaitoring saod      B. Prepration ot a 8-ycor        S. Preparation of a *-y er                                        3. Expansion of excise tax
maagomnt.                        Public Sector Inveatment         Public Sector Investment                                          bas  and moe to ad va lore_
8. Inceas    recurrent           Program.                         Prograo.                                                          rate.
budgt allocation for             4. Furtbhr strengtheing of    4. Strongthening policy-                                             4. Introduction of current
agricultur, and other key        the Government plani ng          _king capacity and economic                                       payment system for corporate
economic  nd social sectors      capabi!lty with emphasis on      =naly    capability                                               Income  tax.
formulation of medium-torm      S. Introduction of a
strateg, project                 progrmmatic budget system.
identification, ealuation
and monitoring.
S. Incrmstg of recarreat
budget to key economic nd
social sectors.
Parastatal Efftelancy            Parastatal Efficiency            Parastatal Efficie               Parastal Efficiy                Parastatl Effieiney             9 
1.  Improved financial           1. ADUARC (m abow under          1. ADVARC (em  bove under       1. ADARC (em abovo under
structure of Malawi              Agriculture).                    Agriculture).                   Agriculture)
Developa2nt Corporation                                                                                                                                             N w



(DC); and *res Meldigs           2. Fortbhr flseacEol             2. Furthor restructuring of
Ltd. (HL).                       restructurag of YDC and t.L.    K and PXL.
2. Incr - d tariffs for          B. Forther adjusbt.at of
public atilities, for Umlasi    tariffs for public wtilltlee.
Alrways ad belal Housing
Corppratieo.
Im,ort L1baralls,tIon            Iaeert Liberalizatioe            Imort Liberallzation             l eort LibsraItzatlot o          lort Libe r Iastion
1. R_movel of requirme_t
for prior approvel of foreign
exhan *I alocation by the
Isserve Bank for so of allI
Importe.
Monstary Mibaarn .t              Monetar Mana_  Mt                llonstary Mani en_    t          Monetary Management              Monetary Manaoment
1. Interest rate adjuted         1.  otrest ratesl adjustd        1. IntcreOt ras adJusted         1. Interest rates adJusted       1. Revision of Reserv  Bank
periodically,                    periodically.                    periodically.                    peiowicadlly.                    Act.
2. Revision of Banking Act.
'Jn
VI
o,



- 56 -                             ANNEX  4
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
Section 1:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare Credit:         15 months
(b)  Credit preparation responsibility:  Government/Bank
(c)  Credit first identified by Bank:    January 1988
(d)  Bank appraisal mission:              July 1989
(e)  Negotiations:                        February 1990
(f)  Board presentation:                  March 1990
(g)  Planned date of effectivenesst       April 1990
Section II:   Special Bank Itmplementation Action
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Negotiations (see para 108)
(b) Board Presentation (see para 109)
(c) Conditions of Effectiveness: None
(d) Condition of release of the second Tranche: (see para
110)



-57 -                               ANNEX  5
Page   1
DRAFT
Mr. Barber Conable
PresLdent
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW.
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Hr. Conablet
1.    The Government of Halavi requests a credit of US$70 million equivalent from
the International Development Association (IDA) to support a programme of
structural adjustment.   The programm  would reinforce continuatLon of key
macroeconomLc pollcy changes inLtiated under past adjustment efforts and support
implementation of agricultural policy reform that are essential for improving
productlvlty of the smallholder subsector, enhancing household food securLty.
and increasing the efficiency of resource use in the estate subsector. It is
important that the credlt be provlded ln the fomt of balance of payments support.
This need arises from the antLcLpated surge in imports due to the ongoLng trade
liberalizatLon reforms lnitlated under the Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment
Credit (ITPAC) and the contlnued high ezternal transport costs. The government
regards this adjumteant programue to be central to its medLuz-term development
strategy as set out in the Governmnt's Statement of Development PolLcLes
(DEVPOL) lssued In 19U8, and highlighted in the fLrst-year (1988189) and second-
year  (1989190)  Policy  Framework  Papers.   As highlighted  in DEVPOL.  the
Goveramente objectives for agriculture are to promote economic growth, raise
rural Lncom, esuroe food securLty, and increase export earnin6e while
conserving natwral resources.  The specific actLons needed to implement the
programe are reviewed below.
Backaround
2.    Between 1964 and 1979, HalaiL's economy grew by an average rate of 6.4t,
wlth a per capita real growth of about 31 per annum and in general was able to
maintain macroeconoLc stabilIty. Thls impiesslve record of economLc growth was



ANNEX 5
-58 -                                 Page   2
attributable tO A set of policies that provided preferential treatment to the
estate agriculture subsector. Consequently, the volume of estate production and
exports increased rapidly in the 15 years after independence, while the volume
of production in the smallholder subsector stagnated and has seriously impaired
household food security. The economy started to deteriorate at the beginning
of the 19809 due to external shocks and structural weakness.   To address these
problems, the Government implemented a broad based structural adjustment program
between 1981 and 1986, supported by three SALs and a series of IMP arrangements.
Although substantial progress was made with this program, the economic situation
again began to deteriorate in 1985 as a result of a significant reduction in
terms of trade and a major disruption in external transport routes due to the
civil war in Mozambique. The Government sought to address this deterioration
through a new program of demand management and structural reforms. In March
1988, the Government began a stabilization program supported by a 15 month stand-
by arrangement with tho I1. Further, the Government formulated a three year
structural adjustment program for the period April 1988 through March 1991 that
was supported by the Fund's Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility and the
Bank's Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Credit.
3.    In summary, although Malawi's economy had a well-deserved reputation for
rapid growth, the source and benfiLts of that growth have been highly
concentrated. At present, the agricultural sector accounts for 36.8 percent of
GDP at factor cost, of which about 75 percent come from the smallholder sector,
however, approximatoly 76 percent of total exports are produced within the estate
subsector. The Governmnt has sought to strengthen the economy's performance
by  correcting    acroeconoLc  imbalances,  improving  producer  prlces  and
restructuring key componwnts of the agrlcultural sector. Although in 1988/89
overall perftence was markedly better than in the recent past, as real GDP grow
by 3.6 percent ad total exports increased by 23.7 percent, Halawi's economy
continues to face major structural problems. The resource base reminse weak.
External transport costs remain high due to the closure of the traditional routes
to the sea.  A high population growth rate continues to place excessive demands
on food, energy, social services, and employment opportunities.  Per capita
agricultural productivity among smallholders is declining, largely due to land
technological constraints, and a considerable proportion of the rural population



ANNEX  5
Page   3
continues to face seasonal food deficits. leading to wide-spread malnutrition
and high moctality rates. Past agricultural adjustment programs have focussed
on producer incentives, with inadequate attention to non-price policy
constraints. To address the problems, the Government medium-term strategy aims
at continuing reforms to attain macroeconomic stability and to alleviate
structural constraints in the productive sectors.
Macroeconomic and Agricultural Sector Adiustment Proarame
Macroeconomic Policies.
4.    At present, over 80 percent of Malai'is exports consist of agricultural
commodities and two-thirds of the economy's manufacturing sector is based on
processing agrlcultural comodities. The Government's objectives are to increase
both traditional and non-traditional exports while encouraging the expansion of
industries based on domestic raw materials in order to improve the balance of
payments.  To maintain the ccmpetitiveness of exports and promote  fficient
import substitution, the Government will continue a flexLble exchange rate
policy. The Government will also implement by March 1990 liberalization of
foreign exchange approval system covering non-industrial equipment and certain
consumer products for which there is domestic competition, and vill complete the
entire liberalization progrsm by October 1990; prior approval wlll remain only
for a small negative list of selected items. Additional actions to be taken by
end of March 1990 include the Lntroduction of a tax allowace for export earnings
and a more effective drawback system to help improve the competitiveness of
exports, and a surts credit system to exempt payment of surtax on inputs,
including *asm parts ad capital goods Furthermore, the Goverment will review
the existing tariff structure for imports with a view to developing and
initiating imple metation of tariff reforms to be completed by the end of
1990/91.
S.    The flexLble exchange rate policy will be complemented and integrated with
restrained aonetary and fiscal policies with a view to decelerating the present
high rate of inflation and improving the balance of payments. In addition to
ensuring availability of credit to the productive sectors, monetary and credit



ANNEX 5
-60 -
Page   4
policy will aim at sharply curtailing expansion of the money supply. Government
has already taken major action to improve monetary management. These actions
include amending the Reserve Bank Act, approved by Parliament in Harch 1989.
The amended Reserve Bank Act enables tho Reserve Bank to fully undertake the
traditional central banking functions, including open market operations,
institution of reserve requirements, and effectivo supervision of the financial
system. The Government has also revised the Banking Act to, among other things,
improve competition, remove dLstortions in the financial system, and facilitate
more effective monetary management; the revised BankLng Act was presented to
Parliament in October 1989 and is now effective. The Government will implement
these reforms in a phased manner with a view to establishLng a system wherein
monotary policy is managed through controlling reserve money in an environment
of flezible interest rates. Interest rates have already been decontrolled and
are now positive in real terms. By implementing the above refors, together with
the fiLcal policy described below, the Government will  continu  efforts to
decelerate the inflation rate which was reduced from about 312 in 1988 to about
152 in 1989.
6.    The fiscal polLcy will be aimed at limiting the overall budget deficit
(before grants), of the Central Government to the level that can be sustained
almost entirely by the available foresgn concessional loans and grants, and which
is consistent with the need to reduce inflation and attain balance of payments
stability. The Government will, therefore, continue to reviwL the appropriate
level of fiscal deficit, taking into account the available concessional loans
and grants. and the need to attain the program's overall domestic and external
objectives. To amaiiso the benefits of public ezpendituros in the tight fLscal
envirornmet. th Governmet has adopted an action plan to strengtheu &ad improve
the budgetqs allocatLon process. SpecifLcally, by December 1990, the Government
will lmplement a  uber of measures, including development of proposals that
would facilitate the shifting of donor f inancing towards recurrent expenditures
associated with development expendituree in key sectors, reactivation of the
forward budget, and improvemnat in sectoral budget planing to enhance
consistency with sectoral priorities. The Government has roviowed with the World
Bank priorities for the Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) for the period
1989/90 - 1991/92. Through annual reviews, the Government will ensure that PSIP



- 61 -                               ANNEX  5
Page   5
remains consistent with priorities and available resources, infrastructural
investments with low economic returns are avoided, individual projects are
evaluated in terms of their contribution to economic growth and income
distribution, and implications on recurrent costs and balance of payments are
fully taken into account.
7.    In addition to improving efficiency in the use of public resources, the
Goverrment will continue to ensure adequate incentives and availability of
resources, mainly by restraining budget deficits.  The Government will also
continue to ensure adequate incentives to the private sector, mainly through
maLataining decontrolled prlces. RecognizLng the disincentives arising from high
levels of taxation, the burden of fiscal adjustments will continue to be placed
prlmarlly on expenditures. Slnce 1987/88, the tax polLcy has focussed on reforms
to broaden the tax base, improve allocative efficiency while achieving greater
equity, and improving tax administration. Heasures to broaden the tax base have
been  implemented.    The  Government  has  continued  to  implement  various
administrative measures, including measures to improve identifLcation and
monitoring of tax-payers. With regard to improving allocative efficiency, the
Government in 1988/89 Lacreased to 40X the Investment Allowance for certain
assets brought to service after the first quarter of 1988. The Goversment will,
by 1990/91, review investment incentives and fully merge the Initial and
Investment Allowance, combLond wLth approprlite changes to the structure of
depreciatLon rules for tax purposes. The Government is reviewing the scope for
a reduction in the overall levels of direct and indirect taxation and the
recouendations of the review will be implemented as appropriate starting in
1990191.
Sectoral  Ioj*  RefomE
8.     Develomsent of a Flint Maize H!brid.  Earlier maixe research efforts
focussed on maximizing yields and therefore concentrated on dent hybrid maize
varieties. However, these varieties have characteristics that are unacceptable
to the majority of smallholders, includLng incompatLbilLty with the prevailing
processing (pounding) and storage techniques. As a resalt, less than 10 percent
of the cropped maize area is planted wLth these high yielding dent hybrid maize



-62 -                                ANNEX  5
Page   6
varieties. Given the serious shortage of arable land in Malawi, the Government
will shift the maize research focus mnd budget towards the development of flint
hybrid and open pollinated maize varieties with characteristics that are
compatible with the prevailing storage and processing techniques.   To date
promising genetic materials have been secured and breeding work is already in
progress. During the summer of 1989,90, five top cross flint hybrids underwent
variety trials and screening for storability and pounding quality. Two flint
hybrids will be ready for limited release to farmers during the 1990/1; season.
To ensure a systematic approach, the Govornment has prepared a monitorable
action plan. This plan has been propared in consultation with CDMMXS and should
lead to development of suitable flint variaties during the next three to five
years.  The Government will implement this plan and support this effort with
the necessary budget allocations.
9.     Imoroved Smallholder Agcces to-Hih Valgugro. As part of the broader
effort to increase the productLvity of smallholdere and to improve household food
security, the Government is comitted to the diversification of the range of high
value cash crops available to smallholdera. Although there are several crops
that would aid this effort, foremost among them is burley tobacco.   The
Government has established four settlement schemes to allow smallholders to grow
burley tobacco on public and leashold land. As the next logical step, and in
order to follow-up on the experience gained from the settlement programme, the
Government will initiate schemes for the growing of burley tobacco by
smallholders under customary land tenure.   To this end,  the Government in
Kovember 1989 amnded the Tobacco (Registered Growers) Regulations go as to
include burLy tobacco smug the tobacco varieties that smallholders may be
licensed to p    an customary land.  The Government also revised regulations
relating to the Grmre' and Sellers' license under the Special Crops Act so as
to allow the production of burley tobacco by smallholders without the need for
any land title deeds. Although the Government will thus enable smallholders to
grow burley tobacco, lt ls important that this polLcy change proceeds in a manner
that ensures high qualLty standards, avoids over-productLon, operates at minimum
costs,  and benefLts mostly the food deficit households.   Reflecting these
concerns, smallholder burley productlon on customary land will initially be
confiLed to schemes in selected areas.   In order to ensure the effective



ANNEX 5
- 63 -                                Page   7
implementation of the growing of burley tobacco in customary lands, the
Government has undertaken a study of the appropriate institutional arrangements
for  providing  extension,  input,  credit,  and  marketing  services.    These
institutional provisions will include arrangements that allow smallholders the
option of selling their tobacco directly at the auction floor.   The study
identifies areas where schemes involving smallholder production of burley tobacco
on customary lands would be located so as to ensure that, on average, at least
75 percent of the growers consist of farmers with less than 1.0 hectare of land.
A preliminary five year plan has been prepared, in consultation with IDA, that
outlines the Government's proposals for the quantlty of burley tobacco to be
produced by the smallholders, the areas of production, and the number of
smallholders involved. linally, the Government will also ensure that by December
1990, a total of 5,000 smallholders wlll have been lienased to produce burley
tobacco on customary land.
10.   Iroved Availcblitv of Fertilizer                        .  In recognition of
the need to raLse the low productivity in the smallholder agriculture subsector,
the Govornment is committod to increasing the use of chemlcal fertilizers by
smallholders.  The Government plans to increase the volume of sales of such
fertilizers to smallholders over the next five years at an annual rate of at
least 7 percent per annum begsinning with the 1969910 agrlcultural season. A
detailed five year projection of fertilizer needs and operational guidelLnes for
the Fortilizer Buffer Stock will be finalized by December 1990. In addition,
Government will undertake a study of ways to strengthen the managment and
operation of the SF11. Thls study will be completed and submitted to IDA for
review and ea mats by October 1990.
11.   In ordet  to met the above target for the increased fertilizer sales to
smallholders,  the Gowerment will take two speclfic measures.   First, the
purchasing pwer of the 5111K wLil be Lcreased to pernit the procurement of
sufficiont fertilizer to meet the above target for fertilizer sales.    By
December 1990, the Government will finalize and have begun to implement
arrangemets to ensure adequate capital infuslons to the SI(FM mainly from sale
revenues generated by grant-aid fortilizelsn and to offLcially authorize SFFRFM
to raise short-term loans from coi.ercial sources to finance cash-flow deficits.



ANNEX 5
-64 -                                    Page   8
In addition, the Government has started to pay subsidies due to the SFFRFv on
a quarterly basis. Second, the domestic distribution network for fertilizer will
be strengthened by pricing fertilizer in such a way as to encourage private
sector distribution (see par 18 below).
12.   The Phasina out of Fertilizer Subsidies.  The Government is committed to
the eventual elimination of fertilizer subsidies once lt becomes possible to do
90 without risking a fall in maize production and deterioration of household food
security. The present cztremely high external transport costs are temporary and
are expected to decline significantly once the Northern Transport Corridor
project is completed in 1992 and the recently re-opened Nacala line through
Hozambique becomes fully operational.  Furthermore, the introduction of a high-
yielding flint maize variety would improve fertilizer response and reduce average
production costs substantially. These two events will, over the medium-term,
remove the need for production-related subsidies. Therefore, subsidies could
be eventually phased out but continuation of subsidies during a transitional
period will be necessary to support smallholdor productivity and food security
objectives.
13.   During the transitional period, the Government vill ensure thats  (a) the
rate of economic subsidy will not exceed 302 in 1990/91, 25? in 1991/92 and 20?
in 1992/93, and (b) as a proportion of total Government expenditures, the total
amount of subsidy subventions does not exceed 2.0? in 1990/91, 1.6S in 1991192
and 1.31 in 1992193. The subsidy amount will be accoimdated within the overall
expenditure targets as projected in the Policy Framework Paper (PIP).
14.   T_tim IFertilLzer Subsidis.u  In order to encourage the use of
fertilizer aing sallholders the Governmaet has implemented a pricing policy
for lndivldual typ e of fertilizer that will result In the same cost per kilogram
of product regardless of packet size. In order to encourage the use of high
analysis fertilizers, specifically DAP and urea, the Governnent will implemnt
a prLeing policy for fertilizer by October 1990 that will cause the rate of
subsidy on higih analysiL fertilizer to be greater than that on low analysis
fertilizer. Further, by December 1990 at least 50 percent of fertilizer sales
by the SPPRFM will be in packet sizes not exceeding 25 kilograms. Finally, by



- 65 -                                 ANNEX  5
Page   9
December 1990 the Government will ensure that the proportion of nutrients sold
in the form of high analysis fertilizer will more closely approximate the
recommended application of nitrogen and phosphorous on maize than is presently
the case.
15.   Halting Transfer of Customary Land to Leasehold or Freehold Status. After
independence the Government adopted a policy of transferring land out of
customary status by leasing it to estates (leasehold status).  This policy was
part of an effort to promote estate promotion of tobacco and, therefore, the
volume of exports. Given the high rate of population growth and the inexorable
decline of farm sizes in   customary areas, Government is now comsitted to
stopping the transfer of customary land to leasehold status. The Government has
promulgated a Control of Land Order under the Land Act to halt transfer of land
from customary land areas to leasehold status except in areas where population
density is lets than 50 persons per sq. km., or in those cases where an
individual with existing user rights to the land wishes to convert that same land
from customary to leasehold status, or in the cases of experimental fams
beneficial to smallholders.
16.  Aaricultural Harketing and Pricing Policy.  The Government embarked on a
broad structural refora program of ADMARC in 1967, includlng closing some
seasonal markets, which has resulted in significant improvement in ADMARC's
operating officlency and financial performance. Governmant remains coinitted
to further reform in order to realize ADMUKC's medium-term objectives of market
stabilization a*d financial viability.  The Governmet is reviewing recently
completed AWIUC coat structure study. The review will enable the Government
to define mras clearly the cammercial and development functions currently
undertaken by AMKAIC. To strengthen ADHAC efficiency and porformance, the
GoverrAent will ass=e responsibility beginning in MY0I91 to finance, dlrectly
out of the government budgt, priority development functions that are not
consistent with ADKAUC flnancial viabllity. To thLs end, the Government will
reach agreement with ADAUMC by June 1990 on which development activitLes will
be restructured lnto financially viable operations, which will be supported
through treasury subventLon, and which will be dropped altogether. With regard
to seasonal markets that are not financially viable, ADMARC will review the scope



-66-                                  ANNEX  5
Page 10
for the introductLon of commission agents who would buy and sell on ADMARC's
behalf and introduce such agents as may be feasible: otherwise, unviable markets
would either be closed or be supported by treasury subvention.  The initial
transfers to ADMARC to compensate for FY90/91 ezp.nditures vill be made during
FY91/92.
17.    By December 1990 ADHABC will begin implementing a prlcing and marketing
policy that will ensure that each of its individual crops trading accounts will
not incur a loss on average over a pecriod of three years.  For smallholder
tobacco, ADMARC will also implement, by December 1990, a two-payment system which
will comprise a pro-season announced 'incentive, price that is equal to at least
45 percent of a three year mowing average of auction prices and a residual bonus
payment.   The bonus will be based on the marketing and overhead expenses
attributable to smallholder tobacco, plus a reasonable return to ADMIAC. The
three year moving average will be based on the forecast auction price for the
upcoming season and on the auctlon price for the preceding two seasons. Finally,
the Government will consult IDA on proposed producer prices before they are
announced.
18.   In order to encourage an increased role for the private sector, including
smallholder farmer groups, in the marketing of agricultural Lnputs and outputs,
the Government will design, during the 1990/91 annual price review, and implement
a system of diff erntiated prices for maize and fertilizer by August 1990. This
system is not intended to replace the present system of AMAC seasonal markets,
but instead is Intended to complement it. This system of differentiated prices
is to be operated at AMU1C's 35 receiving markets. At these receiving markets
ADMARC wllP nalstai1 a price differentLal of at least 20 percent for a minimum
of one mtriL to of malse delivered. The Goverment will also introduce a price
differential of between 5 and 10 percent applied to mini m quantities of 200
kilograms of fertilLszr purchased at the ses set of AMUAC' receiving markets
by bonafide smallholder groups. The Government will, in consultation with IDA
review the implemntation of the fertilizer prLce differential to ensure that
it does not exacerbate leakage of fertilizer subsidios to estates; worsen the
financial position of SFFlM i or slow down the adoption of fertilLzer use by
smallholders. Further, the Government will coplete by August 1990 a study of



- 67 -                              ANNEX  5
Page 11
the cotton subsector in order to design and begin implementing a medium term
strategy for increasing cotton production, and identify ways to enable the
private sector to participate in the marketing of seed cotton. Finally, ADHARC
willl continue to divest investments in enterprises that are not related to its
marketing functions.
19.   Enhancinv,,Food Security within the Smaliholder Subsector.  The combination
of shortages of arable land in most areas of the country and the lack of suitable
technLcal packages for food production have undermined food securlty in many
parts of Malawi. Although the available data on food security in Malavi are
incomplete, it may be that up to half of the smallholder populatLon faces at
least seasonal food insecurity. The Government is attempting to deal with the
problem Ln several ways. For example, a food security and nutrition unlt has
been created within the Offlce of the PresLdent and Cabinet.   Further. the
Government is supportLng a maternal and chlld nutrition study ln Mzuzu in order
to learn more about the extent and causes of malnutrition. Given the strong
tradition of national food self-sufficiency in Malawi, the Governmet regards
it as essential that food security at the household level be achieved through
increased household production rather than through food aid programs.
Recognizing that there are several constraints to inereasing agrlcultural
production especially amog the food insecure (Cho typically cultlvate very
small land holdings) the Gover nent is pursuing several approaches to improving
food security ln the umallholder subsector.  As noted above these measures
include developing an Improved maise variety that is more acceptable to
smaliholders than those presently available and strengthening the marketing
arranigemsmt for agrlicultural inputs and output.
20.   In odter to glain a better understanding of the most effective approaches
to targeting aslstane on mmallholders, the Goveramont will Implement by August
1990 a pilot project desined to test a food and fertilizer for work program and
a pilot project designed to test methods for targeting agricultural credit oan
food  insecure households.   In addLtion,  the Governmnt will  locate  the
smallholder burley production schemes referred to above in areas where at least
75 percent of holdings are less than 1 hectare in size. FinalLy, by September
1990, take action to Improve the guidelines for the operation of the Strategic



ANNEX 5
- 68 -                                Page 12
Grain Reserves (SGR). This will include specific guidelines for selling to and
buying from the SGR and determination of the optimum quantity of maize to be
stored in the SGR. Government vill also undertake an integrated household survey
and carry out studies related to poverty issues with a view to identifying and
implementing measures to alleviate the adverse impact of the adjustment program
on the poor.
21.   Imrovine the Efficiency of Agricultural Exienditures. The Government is
committed to ensure that budgetary resources allocated to the Ministry of
Agriculture are spent on activities with high prLorities. Government is also
concerned that many essential functions are not being adequately performed due
to inadequate recurrent budgetary allocations. For example, the effectiveness
of agricultural eztension services has declined in recent years. Although in
the longer-term, Govrosmnt will be able to fund such exponditures from enhanced
revenues generated from implementation of its medium-term development strategy,
the present constrained fiscal position poses difficult choLces for Government.
Therefore, it it essential that donors consider funding a grnater proportion of
recurrent expenditures. Under the proposed operation, the Government vill carry
out a review of the ongoing and planned agricultural projects and programs with
a view to ensuring that (i) these projects and programs are consistent with
sectoral priorities, (ii) available resources are used effectively, and (Cii)
the proper balance is maintained between non-wage and staff recurrent costs.
The roview will also identify a core of crLtical activLties on the basis of whlch
donors will be encouraged to finance a larger share of the recurrent costs than
is done at present. The Government plans to complete the review by April 1990
and begin 1i.pemeting the findings of the review in FY 1990/91.
22.     II&        Strenathen  state Aericulture.   The Governmnt strategy for
estate agricultwr Ja s to Increase productlvity through improved technology and
improved effclieycy of resource use. Since indepondonce, the land area under
*state. increased fourfold, howevr, only about 14 percent of estate land Is
cultivated in any one season. With a few exceptions, the estate land is on
leasehold subject to annual rents. To address the problem of under-utilization
of estate land, the Government is comilt%ed to increasing lease rents in order
to better reflect land scarcity, and improving the paymet of the due rents as



AN4NEX 5
- 69 -                                 Page  13
required. To this end, the Government in November 1989 amended the Land Act so
as to provide for, inter alia, future revisions of rents at intervals not
exceeding three years rather than seven years as was the case before November
1989. The Government is also committed to restore, over the short-run, the land
rents to a level at least equal in real terms co the level in 1985 when the reats
were last adjusted; and, in the medium-run during the first cycle of the three-
year intervals after 1992 when a tried basis for differentiating rents according
to land quality is expected to be in place, to raise the land rents above the
1965 level in real terms.
23.   In keeping with the above comaitments, the Government will, under the
proposed Credit, increase the rents from the presont KlOIha to at least K20Iha
to take effect during the year starting April 1991. The Government will also
take further actions, by April 1992, to differentiate the rents to reflect
varying categories of land quality and to raise the weLghted average rents to
a level at least equal to the 1985 level in real terms.  Accordingly, the
Government will also undertake and complete by June 1991 a land classifLcatLon
study to establish a sound and objective basis for thus dLfferontiatlng the land
rents. To improve the payment of land rents, the Government will, by July 1990,
establish a system to collect lease rents through tobacco auctlon for tobacco
estates; and ensure that the Department of Lands has adequate capability to
collect rents from other estates as well aso to enforce lease covenants relating
to the establlshment of woodlots.
24.    The Govegaat is also comaLtted to ensure that the estates have adequate
technical adyisoy support. AccordLngly, the Government has, since December
1989, establabe0 an estate extensLon service, which will be closely associated
with the Tobacc  Research Institute of Malain.   The estate extension service
will be self-fianacing with regard to recurrent costs.
Conclusion
25.  Malawi continues to face difficult problems but the Government believes
that the policies outlined in this letter will help to alleviate the main factors



ANNEX 5
-  0-                                Page  14
which have continued to constrain the growth of the agricultural sector in
general and smallholder subsector in particular. The Malawian economy depends
heavily on agriculture and, by improving the performanco of the agricultural
sector, the programm set out in this letter would have a significant impact on
tho economy as a whole. implementation of the programue requires a considerable
amount of external resources during the next three years.   The Government,
therefore, requests the assistance of the World Bank to mobilize additional
external resources from the donor community to supplement the expected resources
from IDA.
Yours sincerely,
(Louis J. Chimango, MH.P.
MIAnster of Financ



AMRILLTURAL SECTR M.US1TU   PROMM
POLIC  ABA ACTION NAIRIX
RECENT ACTIIS TM    QUOER   SAL  T   SIPPL.,
PLICY ISSIES AND OBCTIVES                 IlPAC. NB M SAC) AND RlnfER WICATIONS FOR  SAC                      ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN UDER  AC            TIIID#
1. External Sector:                       ahin)oining exch)  rate at                                                                              Second
T) Exch     Refi  Tbieony  ft   ba  c wd to odj                    lel  satisfactory to IDA.           Tranche
To Imp ov otticloacy ot               le dleni r"      ldclly. loding to a 41.611 mil
resource allocation ad               dpcp iato ofete Iwacha durig 197-9. The Goverment
increas  exports through:            *111 contime to minti a flexible exchng  rate policy.
a) a_sring appropriat
exchang  rate; b) liberalizing        b) 1ort Libwization:  The tovermeent has Implemented                Ilementing the fourth                March 1990
imortsa  and (c) improving           the firet 3 stag" of import ilbealization covering about             stag  of import
export incentives.                    65e ft al IImports. Tbh Govermmnt has *aso mrged the                 liberalization covoring non-
import levy and duty. Further actioas are needed to                 industrial equipm_t and
complete the Import librolization progrm  and review the            certain consumr products
existing triftf structur  with a vimw to re ing Import              for wbicb thbre is domestic
tariffs.                                                            competition.
Removing the requiremet of          Second
prior aPProval of foreign           Tranche
exchange for all imports,
except for a hortt Is t of
items Satisfactory to IDA.
Rtviewing tariff structure          199/91
ad reduc  levels.
Exnort Pr motion: The Gwvernment bas redced the range of            Deoeloping and initiating           1989/9W-
xportT          and baa introduced tax *llowance for                impleomenttion of a more            191/92
exports, Further actions are newede to improve tho                  *ffective duty drawback
effectiv      of the duty drawback system.                          systm for exports.
OQ z
I&



2. Public Finance
To contain Inflation, Improve        a) Central Cover_ t Budget:  The Government h  continuWd            Maintaining flscl deficit         Second
efficelncy la the use o              to -alnt ln sri  f eca sdrcipline, reducing fincal                  for FYSS/Ol at a le-l              Tranehe
public resorces, eas                 deficit (excluding grants) frm 9.1S of or In 1987/68 to             *atisfactory to IDA,
prnsure on the balance ot            6.63 ai 1989/W and to an estimated 6.23 In 1989/96.  ase            and preparing PSIP for
Psymonte, and rleas                  approprit  level of flscal deficit needs to be kept within          199t/91-1993/94 satisfactory
resorces to the private              the limits that can be financed largely by the avellable            to IDA
setor through (a) retraining         external coeaceseinal loans and grants. The Governmnt has
fiscal deflicta; (b)isproving        Introduced a rolling three-yer PSIP and baa reviewed with
the quality of Public Sector         the Bak priorities and content of the PSIP for the period
lnvestmnt Progrm  (PSIP);            19g9/90-1991/92. It Is Important that public investmenta
(c; restructuring agricultural       continu  to be guided by a eoun  three-yer rolling program.
expenditures; (d) reducing
fertiliaer subsidies; and
(o) reforming the tax system
b) & riltural E       iture:  The Governmnt baa reviewd            Comleting review.                   April 1996
the find7ap and  pexd ture options outlined In the Publlc
Expenditure Review (PER) completed by the Bank in 1988. As
a follow-up atop, It is n cessry to carry out a more
comprehnive and detailed review of agricultural
expenditures to, amon  otber things, e*nur that total              Beginning implemntation of          1990/91
expenditures remain within the avallable reourco;                  reco_tlmtions.
investment witb low retrns are excluded; and appropriate
belanc  Is iaIntaine   bete e  non-sag  and we  rocurrent
cent, ad between Investment and recurront expenditures.
c) Fertilizer Subsidies: Under SAL KU1, the Govornmet              Maintaining econmic rate of         Second
Initiated a progra  to reduce fertilizer subidies, with a          fertilizer subsidies at a          Trancho
vies to eliminsting thm by 1986/86. The progrm w                   leIvl not exceding US and
discontinud due to a sharp rlse in fertilizer cots, after          total subsidy subwvntions at
the closure of the route through Mozambiqu, and decline In         not more than 23 of total
maie prodution. The Government Maa continue  to adjust             Covernmnt expenditure  In           1991/92-
fertilizer price  gradully, thus reducing the rate of              1991/91.                            1992/93
econoic subsIdy from 356 In 1984/86 to 898 in 1969/96.
lowever, the total amount of subsidies has continued to rise       Reducing economic rate of
sharply, pertly due to substantial increase in fortilizer          tertilizer subsidies to
consumption, rising frm about KS million In 1986/86 to             levels not exceeding 26S  In
K27.2 million in 1989/9.0  Fertilizr consumption 1-                1991/92, and 209 In 1992/93,
projected to continue to rise significantly during the next        and total subsidy
three years. It Is necessary to reduce the subsidy rate            subventionx to not more than
furtehr to avoid worsening the burden on budgetary                 1.65 of total Governwsnt
resouree.                                                          expenditures in 1991/92, and
1.35 in 1992/93.
d) Tax Reforms: The Government ha  introdced    sre to             Revising Incom, tax                 1990/91-
ipreo-ve-  location efficincy of the tax systm, Including         structure, including rates          1991/92          0
convereion of excise taxes to an ad valorem basis, nd              and d preciaton policy.
Increaing Investment allowances. Goverment wIll continue
to lpl emt further tax reform measures to minimize
disincentivsr.



3.  MI r PolWl;y To contain              Pariament approved a revised Act to eanble the Rearve Bank          Presenting the revised             Board
TifftIndoth  =h oving                of Malawi to fully play the conventlonal role ot a central          Banking Act to Parliamet.          Presntation
4ietary management;  nd to         bank, including engaing In open morket operations.  The
enhanc efficiency of the             Government hos also rewnead the Bankiing Act with a view to
financial system through             enhancing efficiency of financial ist btutions.
Introduct on of a more morket
baed mecetry and credit
4. Aericultur
a) OutDu       z                     T.h Goovenment has continued to annully review and revise           Gazetting a two-paymnt             Second
Po "incroa"peduction and         swallbolder output and input prices, using a metbodology            price system for sailiholder       Trench.
rural Ice s                      dsigned with Bank assistance, with a view to, for mixe,             tobacco, with pra-planting
ensuring self-sufficiency and, for other crops, keeping            price of not le  than 455
prices close to border-price equivalents. The Government has       of a rolling 3-years average
also continued to submit to the Bank for coents the price          of auction prices, and a
rovevl  report before prices were announced; submission to         second payment at the end of                           L
the Sank hos not always *llowed ufficient time for Bank's          the mrketing eaon
cc  enta to be considered before the prices are announced.
Furthermore, producer prices for *ar31holder tobacco have          Continuing annual price             1996/91-
ben generally kept baloe the border-prices equivalents nd          review and submitting the           1991/92
wer only about 29X of auction prices In 1988/89, tbs               r coanndatlonu of the
contributing to a decline In the production of * allbolder         review to the Bank for
tobacco, redcing rural incomes, and export earnings.               coments at least 21 days
before the announcemnt of
revised prices.
Waq



b)               I  and             To expand privte sector participatioa ilsarketing of               Increasing the mrgin                S      r  199
W %fta?w :on  To             usllaoldnr crop, rotably waz, Obe Go _t- la  -                     previdod at ADUK romiv-ng
improve *fficleey               Introduced intra-regionally differe tlated mize prices to          mrkeo   to at least 263;
throu_ expanding                (a) provide trading *argina for trader delivering at leaIt         I neasing the number of
the role of the private         a toe of m_iz to selected ADMIARC depots (receiving               erolving *ak-t to aS
sector.                        m_rkts); and (b) wida margias be tw e  prodcetr tn
c_smer prices. Hower, the mrgin provided at MbWRC                  Differentiating fortliz er         Septmber 1990
receiving m_rkets and the nu ew of these markets *re               prices to provide a trading
toadeqate to preset greter participation by tradrs                margin of at least 6S for a
Furthermore, private sector participation Is not alloed In         m1in0m of 20 kg purchased
the mrketing of cotton and tobeeo and distributioe of              from ADMARC roceiving
fertilizers. In the ase of cotton. the main reaso  for not         markets; nd allowing bons
allowing private trader  Is the meoopolistic structure of          fide groups of smallbolders
tbh  ginDeries nd textile mill; for tobacco, the reason Is         (or agents appointed by such
the concern about quality standards; and for fertilizer            groups or by ADMARC) to buy
distribution, It is the see  to avoid wrsening the leakage         fertilizers at the
of subsidized fertilier to estates.                               differentiated price for
their own use or for selling
to otber m* lboldors.
Carrying out a study to            August 1996
identify ways to facilitate
participation by the private
sector in sed cotton
marketing.
Allowing private uactor'-          December 1996
participation In osed cotton
mrketing.
c)  Fertiliaor Procurem_nt          The ability of SFFRF to proure fortilizers is constrained          Continuing preparation of a         1990f91-
and Financina: To -esre         by cash flow short-alls, in turn, due to the fact that             rolling 5-year fertilizer           1991/92
*dequti MO tl  ly               subsidy subventions from the Governmeat are paid to SFRFJ a        requirevent projections.
supply of fertilizers.          year In arrears, and SFFRFJ Is wot authorized to rain, funds
from coemrcial banks evea sha_ It neds to do so to cover           Introducing quarterly              January 1990
caeb short-falls. Moreover, Malaw  signifIcnatly depends on        payents of budgetary
donor-grant fertilizors, but the availabilit.y ot donor-grant      subventions to SFFRFN for
feftilizers I constrained by lack of systmatic plan for            fertilizer subsidies due
fertilizer requirements. Also, EEC bas recently belped             from the Government
alawi to establish a fertilizer buffer stock but the
objctives of the buffer stock are frustrated by lack of
operational guideline. Under AC, the Government has                Completing and submitting to       October 199
prerd a 5-year projection of fertilizer requiresnts as            IDA for review a study to
well as operational guidelines for the management of the           improve the Management of
buffer stock. It hs also Autborized SFFRFM to borro, from          SFFRFM as my  be neceasry
baks to cover cash flow short-falle. Althoug  SFFRFM has
been managed efficiently to date, the Covernnt pla  to
undertake a study to asseas the need and Identify ways to
strengthe  its managemet in the light ot the projected
lncre  in fwtilizer u" by mallholdern a.



d)      Rationalization of ADMARC          During the past four years, ADMARC has made good progres  in          Continuing ADMAIRC's                 1989/90-
Fundina and Functions:             divesting loss-making Investasnts which are unrelated to              divestiture program;                 1M/93
improve AOlLUC's ability           marketing functions. Several such investments remain to be
to carry out price                 divested and ADUARC has prepared a strategy to this end.              Implennting agreement                Jun- 1990
stabilization functions by         The Government has taken ovor from ADMARC the financing of            between ADMARC and
continuing its divestiture         Strategic Grain Resrves. ADMARC cloed about 190  lose-                Govornment under which the
program, relieving It the          mking mrket centers. lVwover ADMARC continue  to carry                Covernment will take over
responsibility for                 out non-commrcial activities related to development and               the financing of ADMARC's
financing non-co_mercial           food a  curity objectives which are unlikely to cover their           functions related to
uctivities, and ensuring           costa on a reulor bais. Such activities  include price                Government's development and
appropriate prices policy.         stabilisation and operation of market centers which are not           food security objectives
financially viable due to low throughput. ADMARC also
continues to linur losse  on som  of its crp trading                 Setting prices of crops               December 199d
accounte partly due to price policy,                                 handled by AWUARC so that
ADMARCe- individual crop
accounts at least broaks
evsn on average over a
period of three years.
Implemnting a coemission             June 1990
agent system for ADMAKRC
market centern that are
financially unviable due to
low throughput and which can                             a
be ade financially viable
through such a system.
e)  Maize Research Focus:              Because research policy has focussed on maize varieties               Shifting maize reserch               1989/90-
Increase  al iholder               which cannot be stored and processed properly under                   focus and budget and                 1994/96
productivity, improve food         traditional techniques, only 7S of the maize are  is planted          implementing the 5-year
eecurity and release land          with high-yielding maize, while the rest is planted with              action plan to develop high-
for non-food crops.                low-yielding local variety.  Average yielde are, therefore,           yielding flint maize.
very low. Under ASAC, the Government has prepared a 6-year
action plan to shift reserch policy and budget to develop
high-yiolding flint mIze varieties whieh can be properly
stored and processed under the prevailing technique.
f)  CaAh C op Allocation:              t present, the law does not allow smallholders to grow one           Amonding the tobacco growing         Board
TIo iner s   ailhold.r            of the high-value cash crops, burloy tobacco. Under ASAC,            end selling regulations to            Presentation
productivity and cash            the Governmet has carried out a study of the appropriate              allow malIholders to grow
Incomes.                          institutional arrangements for oroviding extension, input,           burley tobacco under
credit, and mrketing services.  It has also prepared a S-            customary land tenure.
year plan for the developmnt of seailholder burloy tobacco.
To address food security and poverty concerns, it is                 Licensing at least 6,000              Second
expected that burley tobacco would be targeted to                   muilholders to grow burley             Tranche
smallholders with less than 1.0 ha of land,                          tobacco in areas where at
leat 753 of the fatrmrs
have land of less than one
ha.                                                   3
Reaching agreement with IDA          June 1990
on the warketing system for                           In a'
swal holder tobacco.



L.and Allocation and              About 500,0 ha. have been transforred from oswllholder                Amending Land Act to halt            Board
Use: To slow down dbelin-         area  t  ostJtes since independence despite the severe land           transfer of land from                Presentation
o7form sizes in small-            shortage facing smallholder-.  Partly due to low lease rent           customary areas to estateS,
holder areas and to               collect;on (48K of du"s) and low level of lease rents                 except in areas of low
increase efficieney of            (1K1/ha) and lack of technical advisory services, only 14X            population density and
land use aong etates.            of estate lend Is utilized.  Rents %re also uniform                   experimental farms
irr-sp-etive of the difference in land potential and                 beneficial to snowlholders;
quality.  Lack of technical advisory services to estates is           and cases involving
largely du  to the Government policy to place thes  services         conversion of established
under the Ministry of Agriculture while *states want them to          customary rights to formal
be e*tablished as an autonomous trust body under the Tobacco          rights.
Association of Malaoi since estates are expected to finance
thes  services.  Under ASAC, the Covernment has prepared              Amending Land Act to enable          Board
organization and financing plan for establishment of  state           adjustment of *state land            Presentation
extension services,                                                   lease rent at intervals of
not more than three yeers.
Announcing, through the              Board
official Gazette, an                 Presentation
increased estate land lease
rent of up to at least
K20/hs to be effective in
April 1991.
I-pleenting a system to              Second
collect estate land lease            Tranche
rents through tobacco
auction.
Sending bills to estates for         December 1990
the payment of the increased
rent of K2e/ha with effect
from April 1991
Undertaking a study to               June 1991
establish a basis for
diff-rentiating estate land
lease rent according to land
quality
Introducing diff-rentnated           April 1992
estate land rents at a
weighted average at least
equal to the 1986 level in
real terms
Establishing estate                  Board              -
extension service as an              Presentation      v V
autonomous trust body undor                            D M
tho auspices of Tobacco
Association of Malawi.                                 cio



h)  Est       ohIno of              Although lease covenants require estates to have at least             Streng-thening inspectorate          December 196
ot ect            iii of the land under forestry, few esttes comply with this           staff of D.pertment of Landa
envreonsnt.                     requirement  partly due to weak enforcement capability of              to enforce establishment of
the Dlpor:`eont of Lands. One of the factors cantributing to          woodlota by estate, except
deforesation is the heavy dmond for fuelwood for curing               In cases whero estates are
tobacco produced by estates,                                          able to obtain fuwl-ood from
forest plantations and
private sources.
1)  Food Securit: To                The Goewromt has strengthened the capability for food                 Initiating implemntation of          Second
improve nutritional and        security plasning and stratogy. Under SAC proparation, the             the UWDP-funded pilot                Tranch*
health standards.               Gowv--zont slpend a UNW-funded project, to be executed by             scheme  to test ways of
the 9ik, designed to finanee pilot sch_em   to test ways of           targeting fertilizer
torgeting fertilizer subsidies and agricultural credit to             subsidies and agricultural
food-defieit bouseholds. Recent experience has shown that             credit to the food deficit
fertilizer usage among the smellr seal holders can be                 household; and locating the
considerably incr easd by packaging f-rtilizorz in small              growing of burley tobacco by
beg  whieh are within the noeds and financial means of such           smaliholders in areas where
farmers; and that the use of high analysis fertilizers can            at least 7SS of farm
reduce fertilizer coste significantly.  Also, burley tobacco          holdings are lose than 1.0
offers good prospect. for increasing cash Incomes for                 ha.
farers with very small land holdings, to buy food and/or
fertilizer for food crops. To enhance food security at the            Ensuring a higher rate of            October 1990
national level, the Government plane to iaprove operational           subsidy on high analysis
guidelines for the manageent of the Strategic Grain Rnesrve           than on low analysis
(SOi)                                                                 fertiliz-rs.
Peckaging at least 60  of            Decembr 19W
fertilizer supplied by SFFRF
in bags of not more than
25kg.
Iprowv  operational                  Septeber 1990
guidelines for SGR
O. tonitorlnp Social Imct Of               With Bank assistance, the Cover _nt recently preparod a               Strengthening capacity to             1990/91-
Adjustment: To an ayze                 Program to strengthen the capability to monitor the impaet            monitor and analyze impact            1991/92
poverty Iswues and ases  ways          of the adjustment reforms on the poor; establish a                    of adjustment progras on the
to alleviate adveras ipact              omprehensive soclo-economic data baes; and analyze poverty-          poor.
adjustment progrm on the               r leted issues.
poor.                                                                                                        Undertaking an integrated             1990/91-
household socioeconomic              1991/92
survey and studies on
poverty issues, including
comparative ssessment of
cost and benefits of
fertilizer and direct
consume r subsidies for                                D M
seixe.                                                 _ 
-a O0'



