Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7453-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
MAY 241, i989
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Maghreb Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
CURRENCY EQUIVALEN^'
Currency Unit     =      Dirham (DH)
US$ 1.00          =      DH 8.00
DH 1.00           =      US$ 0.125
(as of January, 1989)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      :    African Development Bank
ASAL     :   Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BAM      :    Bank Al-Maghrib
(Central Bank of Morocco)
BNDE          Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique
(Industrial Development Bank)
CIH      :   Cr6dit Immobilier et Hotelier
(Housing and Tourism Bank)
CLCA     :    Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole
CNCA     :    Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
(National Agricultural Credit Bank)
CRCA     :    Caisse R6gionale de Credit Agricole
EEC      :    European Economic Community
EIB      :    European Investment Bank
FADES    :   Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
FDA      :    Fonds de Developpement Agricole
FI            Fiscal Income
IRCA          Inspection R6gionale de Credit Agricole
ITPA          Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment
KfW      :    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau of the Federal Republic of Germany
MARA     :   Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MF       :   Ministry of Finance
MTASAP   :   Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
OECF     :   Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
ORMVA    :   Office R6gional de Mise en Valeur Agricole
(Regional Development Agency)
USAID    :    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- ii -
STIAFF AlI'RALSAI. REPORI
KINGD)OM OF MORO(GO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CRED)IT PROJECT
Loani and Project Summary
Borrower:         Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA)
Guarantor:        Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:           US$190.0 million Equivalent
LendingTerms:   20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable ir.terest rate.
Project           The proposed Project would assist Morocco in meeting national
Des ription:      objectives set by the Government and CNCA for agricultural
credit for 1989-93 which are to: (a) increase the impact of
credit on agricultural development, production, and food
security; (b) favor private investment in high return projects
with emphasis on export production; (c) diversify CN(A clientele
and activities; (d) increase domestic resource mobilization and
provide a full range of competitive banking services and products
to the farmer community and to nonfarm clients (notably women)
and enterprises; and (e) strengthen CNCA's institutional and
financial performance. Consistent with the Government's
adjustment program supported by the Bank through the recent
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL II) (Loan 2885-MOR),
the Project w3uld, besides, help achieve a key transition in
CNCA's institutional development by supporting CNCA' conversion
to a full-service bank with increased managerial autc.aomy, while
maintaining its comparative advantage to serve agriculture and
to reach small-farmers in rainfed and poverty-related areas;
improving CNCA's appraisal procedures (including environmental
impact); and developing skills needed to manage the changed
organization.
Specifically the Project would fund over a four-year
implementation period: (a) medium- and long-term credit to
private farmers and investors in the agricultural sector to
finance a wide range of investments including irrigation, farm
equipment, tree crop and livestock development, storage
facilities, land improvement, greenhouses, agro-processing
plants, coastal fisheries, rural housing, fo.restry and
environmental protection, rural non-farm investments, and
working capital for private agro-processing exporters; and (b)
project-related training, consulting services for the
strengthening of CNCA management and planning, and construction
or rehabilitation of a new tranche (1989-1993) of CNCA's branch
network and offices.
Since the Government of Morocco reemphasized, in 1987, the role
of CNCA in the development of the country's rural sector and the
need to transform CNCA into a full-service bank so as to improve
its long-term viability, CNCA now has the highest political
support for its reforms. Thus, the risk of a slower pace than
expected in the execution of the proposed improvements is
considered reduced. On the basis of past and current experience,
IBRD funds are not expected to be at more than normal risk,
since CNCA overall operating results are positive and should
stay that way, in view of its prudent lending policies, rigorous
collection methods and adequate provisions.
3A49Esc
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:                                   Local   Foreign   Total
--   US$ million------
CNCA Credit Operations                        1,027     495      1,522
(Medium- and long-term)
Institutional Development                         3       7         10
(Training, consultanits,
construction, equipment)
TotalProjiet Cost                       1,030 /a  502      1,532 /a
Proposed Financing Plan
IBRD                                              -     190        190
ADB                                               -      70         70
EIB                                               -      60         60
KfW                                               -      38         38
OECF                                              -     100        100
FADES                                             -      30         30
CNCA                                            582      14        596
Sub-borrowers                                   448       -        448
TOTAL                                   1,030      502     1,532
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                               1990       1991      1992       1993
…----- (US$ million) ---------
Annual                             30.0       60.0      60.0       40.0
Cumulative                         30.0       9O.U     150.0      190.0
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 7453-MOR              Date: May 24, 1989
Map No.: IBRD 20960
/a Includes US$179 million of taxes and duties



- iv -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  INTRODUCTION    ........................................         I
H.    THE AGRICULTURALSECTOR  .....            ....................     2
A. Economic Outlook .........................................       2
B. Place of Agriculture in the Economy ............... . ......     2
C. Agricultural Performance and Government Strategy ..*  ......     3
D. Sectoral Issues Relevant to Agricultural Credit ..........       4
E. Bank Role in the Agricultural Sector       .....................  8
M.    THE FINANCIAL SECTOR    ... ....................... ..            9
IV.    THE CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE    .........    11
A. Organization and Staffing ......      ..........................   11
B. Lending PoJici;s and Procedures ..........................   14
C. Lending Oper,.;ions ..........................................    16
D. Financial Situation and Performance .* ....................   19
E. CNCA's Development Objectives and Strategy  ...............   23
F. CNCA's Projected Lending Program and Financing .... .......   24
Requirements (1989 - 1991)
Vt.    THE PROJECT        ..........    ............................    25
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement and Project Objectives .....   25
B. Summary Project Description ................... ...........   26
C. Detailed Features ......       ........................ . ....... .    26
D. Project Cost Estimates ....................................    29
E. Project Financing ..     ......................................   30
F. Procurement   .    .. ... ........ .            ....... I ..    32
G. Disbursements         ............................................    34
VI.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..........................               36
A. Credit Operations ........................................    36
B. Women's Participation and Environmental Aspects ..........   38
C. Institutional Development ...............3  ...............    39
D. Monitoring and Evaluation.....                                  43
E. Accour.ts and Audit .......................    44
VI.   BENEFTS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS.......                          45
A. Benefits and Justification.                                     45
B. Risks ...............................................   49
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    .......    50



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  CNCA Lending Progrzm . ....    .......... 53
2.   Financing of On-Farm Investments ............................. 56
3.  Project Cost Estimates ....... ............... 57
4.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan ........*......  58
5.  Structure of Interest Rates  .................  ................. 59
6.  Distribution of Credit to the Economy (1984-87) ...............  60
7.  CNCA Financial Position (1985-92) o...........o.....o.....o..oo 61
8.   The Agricultural Development Fund o.......     ................... 69
9.  ASAL TI Key Policy Area               ......................... 70
10.   Performance under Previous Agricultural Credit Projects ......  72
1'.   Terms of Reference for CNCA's Strategic Planning Unit ........ 75
12.   Suggested Elements for Branch Network's Cost/Benefit Analysis. 77
13.   Terms of Reference for a National Guarantee Fund ..........o...  78
14.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project file .... 79
CHARTS
iL   Flow of Project Funds .*..................*................   80
2.   Organization Chart   ..................     o.....o...... o..............o..  81
MAP:       Branch Network of CNCA (November 1988) (IBRD 20960)
This report was prepared by Mr. B. Dussert (Task Manager) and is lased on the
findings of a Bank appraisal mission that visited Morocco from June 29 to July
15, 1988. The other members of the mission were Messrs. C. Barltrop and
P. Guigou (Consultants). Mr. C. Hovnanian (Rural Housing), Ms. S. Patel and
Ms. E. Kennedy (Investment Models), also participated in the appraisal work.
Ms. D. McNaughton and Mr. J. Guillot-Lageat (Institutional Development), and
Mo. N. deWitt (Legal), provided helpful comments. Editorial assistance was
provided by Ms. C. Floyd and word processing by Ms. S. Creger.



STAFF APPRAMSAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULIURAL CREDIT PROJECT
L INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) has requested Bank
assistance to finance, with other cofinanciers, a National Agricultural Credit
Project. The Project would consolidate and expand previous successful
Bank-financed agricultural credit projects implemented by CNCA. It would
support the Government objectives formulated in the 1988-1992 Orientation Plan
for ecoromic and social development through:
(a) improving agricultural production by financing on-farm investments;
(b) shifting an increased share of investment in agriculture to the
private sector;
'c) increasing access by small farmers to institutional credit;
(d) increasing CNCA's financial autonomy and promoting the mobilization
of domestic savings; and
(e) transforming CNCA into a universal bank, and strengthening CNCA's
management efficiency and financial condition.
1.02     The Project would be implemented by CNCA and finance on-farm
investments undertaken by private farmers and farmers' cooperatives,
investments for the establishment or extension ot agroindustries, working
capital for agro-processing exporters, private coastal fisheries, private
artisans (men and women), rural nonfarm enterprises, reforestation and
environmental protection, and rural housing investments. The Project would
also finance the extension and rehabilitation of CNCA's branch offices
network, training/technical assistance to strengthen CNCA's organizational
structure, improvement of the planning process and loan appraisal methods, and
improvement of CNCA's Management Information Systems (MIS) on a decentralized
basis. The Project would be implemented over a four-year period
(July 1989-June 1993).
1.03     The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$1,532.0 million,
of which US$502.0 million (332) is foreign exchange. A Bank loan of US$190.0
million to CNCA would finance part of CNCA's medium- and long-term lending,
and institutional development during the Project period. The remaining
investment resources would be mainly provided by CNCA's own resources,
3849Esc



- 2 -
sub-borrowers' contributions, and by loans from the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau (KfW) of the Federal Republic of Germany, the African Development
Bank (ADB), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (OECF) of the Government of Japan, and the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (FADES).
1.04     The Project was identified and prepared by CNCA with the assistance
of Bank missions supervising a previous Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
2731-MOR). The Project was appraised in June/July 1988 by a Bank mission, in
coordination with KfW, ADB and EIB. OECF and FADES were officially approached
after appraisal.
HI. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Economic Outlook
2.01     Background on the Moroccan economy, past economic performance, recent
economic trends and the Government's adjustment efforts, as well as social
indicators are fully described in a report on a proposed Structural Adjustment
Loan to the Kingdom of Morocco (Report No. P-4867-MOR of September 9, 1988).
2.02     The Bank and the IMF have supported and continue to support the
economic adjustment process in Morocco to foster sustainable and equitable
growth.  The agricultural potential is important (para. 2.03).  The present
Project would help the Government meet its reform objectives of private sector
investment, export promotion and domestic resource mobilization while reducing
pressure for public expenditures.
B. Place of Agriculture in the Economy
2.03     Morocco is at a stage of its development where agriculture accounts
for about 182 of GDP, 40% of employment and 31% of export earnings. However,
the contribution of agriculture to economic growth varied considerably between
the 1960s and the 1980s:
Growth           X of GDP   % Employment    % Export
1960s      rapid expansion         29               44             38
1970s      decline                 17               42             33
1980/84    drought period          14               39             28
1985/88    renewed growth          18               40             31
2.04     Food production in the 1980s has not kept pace with the increased
domestic demand generated by the combination of rapid population growth
(32 p.a. in 1987), and a high rate of urbanization (4.81 p.a.). After falling
during the drought period of 1980/84, sectoral growth resumed in 1985, and in
1986 the agricultural sector was the leading contributor to a 5.82 increase in
Morocco's economic growth.
2.05     Recent progress in agriculture was the result of exceptionally good
rains and harvests in 1985/86 and increased production from the expanding



irrigated sector. Production decreased slightly in 1986/87 but in 1987/88
there was again a record harvest. While impcrtant productivity gains have
been made in recent years, there remains a lot to be done since Morocco's
agricultural and agro-export potential is still far from being realized.
C. Agricultural Performance and the Government Stratege
2.06     Past Performance. The performance of the agricultural sector has
been uneven, and is characterized by the two contrasting trends between the
traditional rainfed sector and the modern irrigated sector (800,000 ha in 1987
or 10% of the cultivated land). In the past, Government concentrated 60-75%
of Its investment and most of its producer subsidies in the irrigated sector.
As a result, considerable progress has been made in farming techniques and
yields in this sector. Output grew at 5.5% during 1971-86. Production of
sugar beet, sugar cane, and dairy cattle showed rapid progress. Morocco now
obtains 45% of its total agricultural value added and 60% of its agricultural
exports from the irrigated areas. Rainfed cultivation, on the other hand,
which involves 75% of the rural population and provides the bulk of the
country's basic internal food supply (cereals, pulses, oil seeds and red
meat), remains largely traditional. Low yields are the result of a
combination of factors: climatic constraints, in which 7 out of the past 14
years have been drought years, fragmentation of holdings (typical plot size is
0.6 ha), insecure land tenure, poor farming practices, inadequate use of
modern inputs and poor support services, except in small areas of special
development projects. Potential does exist, however, in both the irrigated
and rainfed sectors to increase yields. In the rainfed areas, mechanized land
preparation, use of modern inputs and selected improved seeds and a more
intensive and rational land use would improve productivity. In irrigated
areas, improved farming techniques, greater cropping intensity, development of
complementary infrastructure and better maintenance could expand production by
as much as 100% over the next decade.
2.07     The Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adiustment Program (MTASAP).'
MTASAP was prepared by the Government in 1984 in response to the poor
performance of the agricultural sector. A five-year adjustment program
started in 1985. The program's objectives are to:
(a)  restructure the public investment and expenditure program in
agriculture and increase private sector financing through increased
lending by CNCA;
(b)  correct the framework of prices and incentives;
(c)  strengthen the agricultural support services needed to be provided by
the Government while privatizing others;
(d)  build up institutional capacity for agricultural policy planning and
analysis and strengthen the organization and structure of the
agricultural sector; and
(e)  help resolve the basic issues of improving productivity of land use
and protecting the natural resource base.
1/ Details are in the ASAL II report No. P-4437-MOR of October 30, 1987.



- 4 -
The Bank has given strong support to the above prtgram through two
agricultural sector adjustment loans. The second sector adjustment loan was
zade effective July 26, 1988 and overall, this program is progressing well
(Annex 9).
2.08     Intitutional Credit and Private Investment. A key element in the
Government's adjustment strategy is to rely more on private investment
channelled through institutional credit, as opposed to public sector
investment. In agriculture, private investment now accounts for about 592 of
total investment, of which 702 is financed by CNCA. CNCA handles about 60P of
total agricultural lending.1'  Since public investment has been concentrated
in the irrigated areas, the development of rainfed areas has relied heaeily on
institutional credit. Roughly 65% of CNCA lending is targeted in these
areas. In order to carry out its strategy of gradual privatization of the
economy, Government plans to reduce its own investments and make additional
credit available chiefly through CNCA for private investments in on-farm and
market level storage, farm mechanization, field irrigation facilities and
agroindustry. The Project would be the major provider of funds for the
implementation of this strategy.
D. Sectoral Issues Relevant to Agricultural Credit
2.09     Poverty and Low Debt Service Capacity of Rural Families. Some
constraints exist to expanding CNCA credit to farmers. One is the limited
savings and debt service capacity of many rural families with ra'nfed farms of
less than 7 ha, which represent about 90% of the total number of farmers
eligible for credit. A majority of these rural families operate at or near
subsistence level, generate very few financial surpluses, and cannot
accumulate savings and invest without credit. But their debt capacity is
minimal and prevents them from having full access to institutional crd.1it
(para. 4.12). In addition, because most farmers do not hold documented title
to their land, CNCA's established lending criteria have been based on a notion
of fiscal income (i.e., income estimated to be derived from existing land
holdings plus livestock) and have resulted in credit extension to only a
limited proportion of small farmers and for smaller than requested amounts.
Recent 1987 data indicate that CNCA is now lending to about 30% of potential
CLCA borrowers,2' (para. 4.12, Table 4.3) compared to only 26% in 1985. To
increase accessibility of farmers to credit, particularly in rainfed areas,
CNCA has begun to expand its physica' network, to open temporary credit
outlets, and to develop a new credit policy on eligibility, based on the
direct assessment of farmers' credit needs and creditworthiness, which should
increase the ceilings on the loan amounts as well as the number of eligible
borrowers, particularly the number of eligible small farmers. CNCA will
implement this credit policy (para. 6.03), while making sure that it does not
add more risk to the CNCA portfolio. Efforts are also underway to assess the
savings capacity of small farmers.
2.10     Deposits and Savings Mobilization.  A second constraint to expanding
CNCA's role is its ability to mobilize deposits and savings in order
1/ The rest is mainly lending by commercial banks, which is primarily
short-term.  The comme:cial banks play a minor role in financing on-farm
investments (less than 5% of total medium- and long-term credit to
agriculture).
2/ Caisse Locale de Credit Agricole (CLCA) serves smaller scale farmers, with
fiscal income DH 50 - 6,000 (see para. 4.08).



to provide an increasing share of domestic resources to finance a rapidly
expanding lending program. Domestic savings mobilization in Morocco has been
poor and has only recently begun to increase,l' with a particular effort by
Government to reduce budgetary deficits and contain the external debt.
Mobilization of private savings to finance inv-:'%tments has priority. CNCA
with its large network of branch offices is particularly well positioned to
mobilize deposits and savings in the rural sector of the economy. Since 1975,
CNCA's deposits have increased by about 20% p.a., from DH 136 million to
DH 1,202 million in 1987. However, a large part of these deposits are
institutional, from state-owned companies, and rural savings are still
difficult to attract. CNCA raised the interest rates on deposits by 1-2% in
April 1985 and it has undertaken a more intensive campaign to mobilize
savings, including use of a "carnet-vert" (savings passbook) system,
rehabilitation of existing branches and expansion of banking activities.
Nevertheless, many farmers still prefer to store their wealth in real assets
such as livestock, or to invest, for the larger farmers, in urban based
investments, so that in 1987 only 13.5% of CNCA's resources were raised
through deposits and savings. CNCA is therefore developing a medium- and
long-term strategy to increase savings mobilization, and would implement it
under the Project (paras. 4.18 and 6.10(e)).
2.11    AMrondustrial Development and Export.  Development of small and
medium-scale, relatively labor-intensive agroindustrial activity complementary
to primary production has been constrained by a combination of limited
entrepreneurs' experience in dealing with financial institutions, the need to
improve technical and financial competence to manage firms and a limited
access to finance.-   Under recent Agricultural Credit Projects supported by
the Bar.'. (Loans 2367-M0R and 2731-MOR), efforts have been made to'strengthen
CNCA's capacity to assess rural industry potential, and to provide funds for
financing selected activities in fruit and vegetable processing and packing,
milk, seat and olive oil processing, flour milling and cold storage. Lending
levels for agroindustry increased from DR 25.0 million in 1983 to DH 63.1
million in 1386, or about 10% cf total agroindustrial lending. (In 1987,
lending levels dropped to DH 43.9 million). Development and regionalization
of agroindustrial lending was in part due to the establishment of a special
office in Meknes/Fes, which actively promoted lending for agroindustrial
activity. In addition, CNCA is providiiig technical assistance to
entrepreneurs on legal, financial, technical and environmental matters, and
marketing assistance has been provided through technical assistance financed
by USAID up to June 1988. There is still a need, however, to expand
assistance and access to credit for agroindustries to other areas of the
country, in particular Casablanca, Marrakech, Agadir, and Kenitra. Under the
proposed Project, CNCA would finance agro-industrial exporters and would
increase its efforts in developing a sectoral strategy to provide credit,
technical assistance and internal and export marketing services to
agroindustries in all high-potential areas of the country (para. 6.04 and
working document No. 6).
1/ In the mid 1970's, gross domestic savings was 15-16% of GDP, by 1981-82 it
had fallen to 9-10% of GDP and in 1984-85 it had increased to 14% of GDP.
It was 18% of GDP in 1987.
2/ In major urban centers, agroindustrial entrepreneurs have now several
forms of access to institutional credit, including through Bank-financed
industrial loans to BNDE and commercial banks.



- 6 -
2.12     Land Tenure.  Land ouned individually (5.4 million ha) represents
about 74% of all cultivable land in Morocco, land collectively owned about
142; the balance belongs to the state or other groups such as religious
foundations. The present land tenure situation represents, however, a
constraint to agricultural growth, because land distribution is unequal and
many farmers lack a documented title to their land. Small farmers (those
having 5 ha or less) own 80% of cotal farms but less than 25% of the
cultivable land. About 0.52 of farmers have more than 50 ha on average and
own about 172 of the cultivable land (see Table 2.1). In addition, the land
is highly fragmented, with an average plot size of 0.6 ha, too small for
efficient rainfed farming. Lack of clear title limits farmers' access to
long-term credit for land improvements and other investments. In addition,
absentee land ownership may represent as much as 30-35% of the land, resulting
in under-use of resources and unwillingness to invest in improvements.
Farmers of collectively owned lands are also generally unwilling to make such
investments.
Table 2.1: DISTRIBUTION OF FARMS BY FARM SIZE
Average Average No.
No. of   % of   Cultivable  % of   Size of  of Plots
Farm Size              Farms    Total      Area      Total  Farms    per Farm
(ha)                 ('000)    (X)   ('000 ha)    (X)    (ha)        (unit)
Without
Cultivable Land /a       450.3   23.4        -        -        -
0-5                      1,089.5   56.5   1,776.2      24.5      1.6      5.5
5-10                       219.9   11.4   1,508.0      20.8      6.9      6.8
10-20                      114.1    5.9   1,529.7      21.1    13.3       7.7
20-50                       44.0    2.3   1,218.0      16.8    27.7       8.8
50-100                       7.7    0.4      514.8      7.1    66.4       8.8
More than 100                2.6    0.1      703.3      9.7   278.0       9.7
TOTAL/AVERAGE            1,928.1  100.0   7,250.0    100.0       4.9      6.0
/a Includes livestock farmers using communal grazing lands.
Source: Agricultural Census, 1974 (updated in 1982 and still valid).
2.13     Tie Government's efforts to improve the land tenure situation have
so far been concentrated on the redistribution of 'Land regained from foreign
settlers and the development of a legal framework for land tranisfers in the
irrigation schemes. In the latter, land consolidation and titling programs
have been completed on about 460,000 ha and are underway on another 275,000 ha.
The Government sees the importance of improving the structure of land tenure
in the rainfed areas and under the adjustment program referred to in para.
2.07 is taking the following actions:
(a) acceleration of collection of the statistical data base on land
tenure and potential for 750,000 ha, partly funded under three
ongoing Bank projects-/ and one project financed by the Government
of Canada;
1/ Fes-Karia-Tissa (Loan 1602-MOR), Loukkos (Loan 1848-MOR), and Oulmes
Rommani (Loan 2217-MOR) Projects.



- 7 -
(b) land consolidation schemes to restructure farms into economically
viable units; and
(c) preparation in 1986 and submission to the Council of Government in
1987 of new legislation to modify the relationships between lessors
and lessees in agriculture, and to provide credit to farmers to
finance land registration operations.
Detailed information on land holdings is essential for the distribution of
agricultural credit. Improved land tenure will expand the potential for
credit use and investment in improved operations. CNCA is also providing
credit to help farmers acquire land titles and is helping to accelerc e the
registration process by cooperating with the Ministry of Agriculthre's
cadastral Office ("Conservation fonciere") to provide information on client
files.
2.14     AgrzltulExtension. Agricultural extension services are not
providing for an adequate transfer of available technology to farmers and need
strengthening if maximum benefit is to be achieved by the rural community.
Except for specific efforts made for some crops, such as sugar beet and
vegetables, the extension service has been constrained by a number of
factors: (a) an unfocused organizational structure at Rabat; (b) field level
staff devoting most of their attention to administrative and commercial tasks
such as input supply, mechanical cultivation, production and harvest
scheduling and statistical work; (c) the need for technical specialists with
ability to develop simple, effective,extension messages for extension staff;
(d) the need for an adequate number of well-trained field staff, improved
training programs, appropriate operating funds in rainfed areas, adequate
infrastructure, particularly field housing, and mobility; and (e) the need for
an organized linkage between extension and research. Under ASAL I
(Loan 2590-MOR) reforms of the ag'ricultural research and extension services
have begun, affecting both rainfed and irrigated areas.  These reforms are
focused on low-cost improvements in organizational structure, development of
work programs, training and increased mobility within existing total staff
resources, and strengthened linkages with research. Further efforts and
actions are planned under the recently approved ASAL II, and a specific
investment project has been approved by the Bank (Research and Extension
Project).
2.15     Pricng and Incentives.  In the 1970s and early 1980s, Government
direct intervention in agricultural pricing and marketing included:
(a) the setting of producer prices (fixed or support prices) for most
commodities;
(b) restrictions on domestic and external trade and a proliferation of
administrative controls and regulations in the price formation
process along the agro-processing/marketing chain; and
(c) distortions in the factor markets through the subsidization of most
inputs (fertilizers, animal feed and irrigation water in particular)
and subsidies to cover commercial services to farmers in the
irrigated areas and part of the costs of on-farm investments.
The failure of this system can largely be attributed to the lack of
coordination between the price and procurement policies (domestic and



- 8 -
external), to the rigidity in marketing mechanisms, and to the unsustainable
burden put on the budget to finance the cost of Government market
intervention. Within the overall framework of the MTASAP (para. 2.07),
Government has considered as a priority the need to correct the prices and
incentives system. In particular, to reduce excessive protection to irrigated
farming systems and to encourage better use of domestic resources in the dairy
sector (over two thirds of dairy production comes from irrigated areas), the
Government plans to gradually eliminate the fertilizer subsidy by 1990, move
to fuller recovery of water charges and of commercial services to farmers in
the ,rrigated areas by 1991, ' and phase out price and distribution control
on animal feed. As part of its marketing and export liberalization program,
Government eliminated in 1987 the monopoly of the National Export Marketing
Organization (OCE). In addition, Government also plans to operate a more
effective price support program and to ensure producer prices at least equal
to the prevailing world prices. These measures are particularly aimed at
encouraging production of cereals in the rainfed areas. The reform program is
fostering a more favorable environment for efficient agricultural growth that
is expected to impact positively on CNCA activities.
E. Bank Role in the Agricultural Sector
2.16     Bank Group lending to Morocco began in 1965.  To date, 95 loans have
been made, supported by US$4.2 billion Bank/IDA funds (TTS$45.2 million of IDA
credits), net of cancellations. In agriculture, 12 projects have been
completed and 11 are underway totalling US$1.1 billion of Bank Groutp Lending.
These include eight irrigation projects: Sidi Slimane (FY65), Sebou I (FY70),
Sousa Groundwater (FY75), Doukkala I (FY76), and Doukkala II (FY77)', all
completed, two Small- and Medium-Scale Irrigation (FY83 and FY88) and a Large
Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (FY86); five rainfed agricultural
development projects in the Meknes (FY75), Fes-Karia-Tissa (FY78), Loukkos
(FY80), Middle-Atlas (FY82) and Oulmes Rommani (FY83) areas; an agroindustrial
and flood control project (Sebou II, FY74); a Vegetable and Marketing Project
(FY80); a Forestry Prolect (FY82); six Agricultural Credit Projects (FY66,
FY73, FY77, FY79, FY83 and FY86), five of which have been comploted; two
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loans (2590-MOR and 2885-MOR) the first of
which has been completed with good progress; and one agricultural research and
extension project (FY89).
2.17     Lessons Learned from Past Agricultural Credit Projects.  Performance of
the Agricultural Credit Projects has been good and they played an important
role in the growth of agricultural credit in Morocco. OED reports are available
for four of them.-2  These reports stress the contribution made by the
projects to agricultural development, their success in mobilizing capital for
private sector investment in Morocco, and in introducing institution building
measures (CNCA) and the successful expansion of credit to small farmers. One
important lesson learned from past projects is that a financially viable farm
1/  The water charges recovery as a proportion of amounts due reached 64% in
1986, but did not reach the objectives of 75% in 1987, and 83% in 1988
(Annex 9).
2/  First Agricultural Credit Project reviewed in Background Paper No. 4 of
OED's Report on Agricultural Credit Programs; Second in Report 2543,
June 25, 1979; Third in Report 3248, December 23, 1980 and the Fourth in
Report 5392 of December 28, 1984.  A combined completion report on the
Fifth and Sixth Projects covering credit operations from 1985 to 1989 is
scheduled for March 1990.



- 9 -
credit system can be maintained with a positive interest rate structure
(para. 4.09). Experience has also shown that CNCA needs to be strengthened to
provide more competitive banking services to its diversified clientele (pare..
6.10(e)), and to improve domestic resource mobilization (para. 4.18).
Following is a summary of the achievements of past projects.
2.18     The first and second agricultural credit projects (Loan 433-MOR, and
Loan 961-MOR, Credit 338-MOR) financed mechanization and modernization of
medium and large farms, resulting in a maximum short-term production impact in
an effort to meet urgent domestic food requirements. Part of the Third
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1361-MOR) was directed to meet rural
smallholder needs by financing improved subsistence production. The Fourth
Agricultural Credit Project enlarged the project scope to include smasl- and
medium-scale, rurally based agroindustries to promote processing and exports.
The Fifth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2367-MOR) pursued the objectives
of CNCA IV and strengthened CNCA's management structure. These five projects
had a relatively positive impact by strengthening CNCA's capital base and its
lending appraisal and procedures, improving loan collection methods and
building an efficient farm credit institution. The Sixth Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan 2731-MOR) is pursuing the Government's sectoral objectives being
supported by the Bank through ASAL operations, and the institutional
development started during CNCA V. The level or investment lending to the
private sector by CNCA reached some DH 1.6 billion (US$200 million equivalent)
per year in calendar year 1987 (medium- and long-term credit). This increased
lending provides a major source of growth for Moroccan agriculture. A more
detailed description of the projects' performance and sectoral impact is given
in Annex 10.
DI. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
3.01     Morocco has a well-developed financial sector.  It consists of:
(a)  fifteen commercial banks having a combined network of about 800
branches;
(b) five specialized credit institutions including CNCA; and
(c) two savings banks.
Morocco has a Central Bank--Bank Al-Maghrib (BAM)--and a capital market
(Casablanca stock exchange) where stocks and bonds of private companies are
listed and traded. Medium- and long-term credit is provided to investors
mostly by three specialized institutions: the Agricultural Credit Bank
(CNCA), the Housing and Tourism Bank (CIH), and the Industrial Development
Bank (BNDE). Each of these institutions caters to its respective economic
sector and has received Bank loans. In 1987, the total banking system
provided about DU 52.7 billion to the economy, about two thirds of which
(DH 33.4 billion) were short-term (Annex 6).
Commercial and Savis Banks
3.02     At the end of 1987, the fifteen commercial Banks had total assets of
DH 82 billioa (US$10.2 billion). The eight largest banks account for some 92%
of total assets. Their branch network is unevenly distributed geographically,



- 10 -
25% of all branches being located in Casablanca where about 36% of deposits
are collected and another 50% of the branches in cities along the Atlantic
coast. In 1987, commercial banks extended DH 28 billion in credits to the
economy (or 537 of total credits), of which 86% were short-term.  In spite of
Government encouragement, banks have been cautious in extending investment
credit, partly because of the possibility of making higher profits at lower
risk on short-term lending. At the end of 1987, the commercial banks' medium-
and long-term lending (DH 4.0 billion) represe'nted (i) 12% of total medium-
and long-term credits to the economy, (ii) 11% of their sight deposits
(DH 35.6 billion) and (iii) 25% of their term deposits (DH 16.3 billion).
About 30% of all commercial bank deposits originated from Moroccan immigrant
workers (para. 4.18). Commercial banks participate, under the control of the
Ministry of Finance, in the syndicated financing of the prodection and
marketing operations of state-owned agricultural enterprises. In principle,
they also offer seasonal and investment credit to individual farmers.
However, their agricultural lending to individual farmers is minimal because:
(a) their branches are mostly located in urban centers along the coast;
(b) they are profit-maximizers and avoid making small loans with
relatively high processing costs;
(c)  they lack adequately trained agricultural staff; and
(d) their lending is usually restricted to borrowers who also keep
sizeable deposit balances and offer sufficient guarantees.
Specalzed Credit bstitutions
3.03     Specialized credit institutions are responsible for the bulk of
medium- and long-term lending.  In 1987, they provided DH 15 billion or 80% of
all medium- and long-term credit to the economy. CNCA's share was about
DH 1.6 billion or 117 of the total.  Since 1981, credit extended by these
institutions has grown at an average annual rate of 13% p.a. (in current
terms), at the same rate as total credit to the economy. This annual growth,
however, stabilized at 9% p.a. at the end of 1987 (11.77 for CNCA).
Finamcia Sector Policies
3.04     Financial sector reforms in Morocco have been supported by the Bank's
Second Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA II) loan in 1985 for
US$200 million. As part of the adjustment process, efforts are being made and
measurei taken to simplify the regulatory framework, reduce distortions in the
financial markets, develop the money market, and strengthen institutional
systems, while promoting competition between financial institutions. The
process has included removing interest subsidies and shifting part of the
foreign exchange risk to the specialized financial institutions and their
clients. In addition, to share part of the foreign exchange risk on term
borrowings with the specialized financial institutions, the Government has set
up a Foreign Exchange Risk Fund to which these institutions contribute. The
rationale at that time was that the Government would gradually shift the
foreign exchange risk to the specialized institutions and the ultimate
borrowers when applicable. This arrangement is part of the ITPA II program.
The Government amended and updated this scheme for CNCA in May 1989, in a
manner satisfactory to CNCA, and acceptable to the



- 11 -
Bank (see para. 5.20 for further details)." The Government also envisages
to improve its foreign exchange risk management as part of its ongoing
dialogue with the Bank and the IMF on the financial sector. A Permanent
Committee for Interest Rates has been established to review interest rates on
a regular basis.
Interest Rates
3.05     With the exception of certain preferential rates (for cereals
production, in particular) the Government has recognized the importance of
making the interest rate structure more flexible and maintaining positive
rates in real terms (Annex 5). The April 1985 interest rates increase made
rates more flexible by setting minima for deposits and maxima for lending, to
replace fixed rates and/or narrow ranges of rates. Interest rates on deposits
have been increased to attract savings: sight deposits yield no interest,
except current accounts with CNCA (up to 3% p.a.); term deposits yield from
8.5Z p.a. for 3-month deposits, to 121 p.a. for 12-month deposits. The cost
of rediscounting facilities with the Bank Al-Maghrib (BAM) ranges from 4% for
agricultural loans to 81 (basic rate). The yield of Treasury securities
varies between 8.5% p.a. for 1-month bills, to 12% for two-year notes (11%
since April 1988). Local currency bonds carry interest rates up to 11.5% and
are mostly issued by specialized financial institutions (CNCA, CIH, BNDE) or
public enterprises.
3.06     Lending rates were also raised in April 1985, with maximum rates
charged by commercial banks on nonrediscountable loans set at 141 for
short-term loans and 152 for medium-term loans. In April 1988, these maximum
rates were revised downward to 13% and 13.5% respectively to stimulate
investments. CNCA's interest rates on loans are positive in real terms and
competitive with those of other financial institutions (para. 4.09 and
Annex 5). CNCA is providing an estimated 90% of investment credit to
agriculture and about 50% of production credit.
W. THE CAlSSE NATIONALE DE CREDII          AGRICOLE
A. Organization and Staffing
Organization and Management
4.01     CNCA, a Government-owned financial institution, occupies a unique
position in the Moroccan banking system, as it provides virtually all medium-
and long-term and most short-term financing extended to the agricultural
sector. Set up initially by the State in 1961, CNCA is presently being
converted into a multipurpose Government-controlled bank (a universal bank).
CNCA's mission has been and still is enhanced by the higher priority being
given to agricultural development and to the activities expected of CNCA in
the future: expansion of credit, especially to small farmers; continued
diversification of activity, especially into areas of agroindustry, fisheries,
l/ Other changes have also been introduced: in reserve requirements and
obligatory placements of term deposits and certificates of deposit, in
credit ceilings, and in the setting of bank commissions; all of which are
designed to promote competition and domestic resource mobilization by
banks.



- 12 -
artisanal industries and other rural activities; increased mobilization of
deposits and savings in particular rural savings; continued regionalization/-
decentralization of credit and banking activities; and enhanced financial
autonomy. Although CNCA has grown for 25 years into both one of the largest
ana the most important financial institution in Morocco, its means of acLion
quickly became inadequate. To continue to be effective in the future, CNCA
needs some of the essential managerial and structural elements of a dynamic
and effective bank. Having outgrown its capacity to provide service, CNCA
suffers from: (a) a structure inappropriate to a bank that must operate and
compete in the commercial market with a very large existing clientele and an
even larger potential one; and (b) the muanagerial consequences of quick
transformation from a small institution to a very large one. Following on the
good operational record and progress made by CNCA in recent years, the time
has come to speed the bank's planned major institutional reforms. In 1987
CNCA began to take significant steps of an institutional nature to strengthen
itself for the future. Among them are:
(a) some rationalization and simplification of the organizational
structure;
(b) further expansion of CNCA's network;
(c) an increase in staff, especially higher level staff;
(d) improvements in follow-up and internal control;
(e) experimental initiation of lending to fisheries and artisanal
industries following on the prudent development a few years
previously of lending to the agro-industrial and rural housing
sectors;
(f) initiation of a management information system and the expansion of
computerization; and
(g) development of a staff training program.
None of these steps has gone the whole way, but they are presently being
carried forward with determination. Under the Project, CNCA would undertake
an institutional strengthening program to provide the necessary base for
well-targeted diversification and expansion of activities (para. 6.10(e)). It
would take action to improve its organization, and modernize its planning,
accounting, and management information systems (MIS) (para. 4.23). CNCA has
developed a satisfactory policy development statement redefining its
medium-term development objectives.
4.02     CNCA is administered by a board of directors and a chief executive
officer (CEO). The board of directors is being reoriented toward the normal
and appropriate board functions of strategy and policy making, budget
approval, overall supervision and evaluation of performance, and approval of
audited accounts. The board includes representatives from the ministries of
Agriculture, Finance, Planning, and Interior, of the Bank Al-Maghrib and of
local farmers/institutions. CNCA's chief executive officer is the Director
General. He is appointed by Royal Decree and is in charge of the overall
management of the bank and of overseeing its performance. To implement CNCA's
change in strategic direction, the King of Morocco appointed a new Director
General in January 1987. The Director General appoints CNCA's staff with the



- 13 -
exception of the financial controller who is appointed by the Ministry of
Finance. The Controller is required to report to Government on CNCA's
compliance with pertinent laws. An independent private auditor is hired by
CNCA to perform an annual audit of the bank's financial statements before they
are approved by the Board at the annual meeting. CNCA's top management is
experienced and capable. The Project will support CNCA's institutional
strengthening by providing funds for training, equipment and consultant
services (para. 5.03).
4.03     CNCA's credit is extended from its headquarters office in Rabat, 46
Regional Branches (CRCAs)1' and 113 Local Branches (CLCAs),2' about 501 of
which offer banking services (see Map No IBRD 20960). Since the appraisal of
the previous Credit project in 1985, six new CRCAs and nine CLCAs have been
opened. In addition, 163 seasonal credit outlets attached to CLCAs are
operational as well as six deposit branches in major urban centers. There are
six Inspection Directorates (IRCAs)3' in charge of banking inspection,
coordination of credit activities, and undertaking special surveys and
studies. However, due to the rapid expansion of the lending program,
additional and more modern office space is needed. The ongoing Project is
supporting construction and rehabilitation of CNCA's headquarters and branch
offices to improve the administration of the lending program and the expansion
of banking activities. The proposed Project will support the construction or
rehabilitation of a new tranche of offices (para. 5.15).
Staffin and Staff 
4.04     At the end of 1987, CNCA staff numbered 2,474, 331 of whom were
located at headquarters. Staff productivity is relatively high. The number
of loans granted annually per operational staff is about 230 for CRCAs and 500
for CLCAs. CNCA's staff is relatively well educated. Most support staff are
high school graduates or have a professional training diploma. Middle and
higher management staff (11% of total) are university graduates, and include
50 women. Every newly appointed employee receives induction training of from
one to six months depending on his or her position. In addition, the training
department in CNCA, revitalized in 1987, prepares and implements training
programs in various activities (agroindustries, recoveries, accounting,
computer systems, banking activities) for continuous in-service training.
However, a recent evaluation and survey of needs carried out during project
preparation have shown that current training programs should be upgraded and
custom-tailored to address gaps in skills, particularly in CNCA's new areas of
activity. The proposed project-related training program is summarized in
para. 5.13, and is detailed in the Project working document No. 5. The low
level of salaries especially at the senior management level is an issue. In
recent years, CNCA has lost up to 10% of its more experienced managers as they
find better paid positions in other local banks. To reverse this trend, some
adjustment in salary scales has been made. New personnel statutes for CNCA
have been adopted to permit CNCA to establish the terms and conditions of
employment necessary to meet competition for top staff (para. 6.10(a)).
1/ Caisses Regionales de Cr6dit Agricola.
2/ Caisses Locales de Credit Agricole.
3/ Inspections Regionales de Credit Agricole.



- 14 -
B. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.05     CNCA's objective has been to provide maximum access to credit, make
the provision of credit rapid and simple and adapt credit norms to regional
agroeconomic conditions. Simplification of procedures and expansion of the
range of investments financed have been the main characteristics of CNCA's
credit policies since 1975. Lending operations are governed by "Credit
Guidelines"'I/ which are revised every year in collaboration with MARA. A
major improvement of these credit guidelines took place in December 1987.
They are comprehensive and cover types of credit available for each activity,
appraisal criteria, financing norms, sub-borrower contributions, interest
rates, maturities, loan approval authorities, security for loans and maximum
credit ceilings available to borrowers. Lei- ag procedures are different for
commercial farmers, clients of headquarters or CRCAs, and for small farmers
who are clients of CLCAs. Loans from Headquarters and CRCAs are subject to
considerably more stringent appraisal criteria than loans from CLCAs, for
which procedures are streamlined. Short-term loans are usually granted for
periods of 3 months (harvest loan) to 12 months and finance farm inputs and
produce marketing; medium- and long-term loans extend from 2 to 20 years (up
to 25 years for rural housing) and finance a wide range of on-farm investments.
Headquarters Office and CRCAs
4.06     The headquarters office lends to large farmers whose borrowings
exceed the CRCAs' loan approval authority, a few state-owned companies
producing or marketing agricultural pro'ucts, irrigation development offices,
and private agroindustrial enterprises. CRCAs lend to individual farmers with
a fiscal income (FI)2' above DH 6,000 (actual net farm income of at least
DH 12,000 or US$1,500) and to Agrarian Reform Cooperatives. CNCA has achieved
an acceptable balance between thoroughness of appraisal and the objective of
reaching a large number of farmers with limited staff resources and operating
costs. Field appraisal is systematically undertaken for investments in land
improvement, irrigation, purebred livestock, plantations, poultry farming,
rural housing, coastal fishing and for all loans disbursed by installments.
On-farm appraisal is also carried out for other purposes when considered
necessary. Credit norms are set to cover about 70% of estimated crop
production costs and 502 of investment costs.
4.07     Loan applications are reviewed and approved by the CRCAs' credit
comittee, which is chaired by the CRCA director and meets weekly. However,
Internal Credit Commissions (ICC) were created in 1975/76 to simplify and
speed up application processing. They are composed of the CRCA director and
two of his staff who can meet daily, if necessary, to approve short-term
loans. The type of guarantee required from borrowers is based on CRCA staff
judgment of credit risk. Short-term loans to individuals are generally
secured by crop liens and sureties and medium- and long-term loans by a
chattel mortgage on equipment. Loans for land improvement, irrigation and
constructions are secured by a mortgage.
l/ Regime des prets, normes et conditions
2/ Net income estimated for tax purposes. Depending upon the crops grown,
real annual net farm incomes range from 2 to more than 20 times fiscal
incomes.



- 15 -
CLCAs
4.08     CLCAs make loans to small farmers with a fiscal income between DR 50
and DH 6,000, which corresponds roughly to an annual net farm income of less
than DH 12,000 (US$1,500). Comprehensive lists of farmers' Fl are kept with
CLCAs and consulted for every loan application. As in the case of CRCA
clients, loan amounts are determined on the basis of norms revised annually.
However, there is a ceiling on maximum borrowings intended to keep borrowing
within the estimated debt capacity of CLCA clients. For farmers having
documented title to their land, maximum short-term borrowing is limited to
DH 30,000 (US$3,800) and maximum medium-term loans outstanding to DH 55,000
(US$6,900). For borrowers who cannot present evidence of ownership (who
represent about 95X of CLCA clients), short-term loans are limited to 200% of
their FI and annual medium-term loan installments to 160% of FI. The ceiling
on borrowing capacity minimizes CLCA lending risk. This is important, because
loan appraisal is based on desk review. Systematic field appraisal and
supervision of loans made to small farmers (average loan in 1987 was DH 3,900
or US$500) would not be administratively or financially feasible. The FI
ceiling is necessarily arbitrary, however, and often not related to investment
cost or the farmer's actual capacity to repay the loan. As a result, credit
provided to CLCA clients often constitutes less than 60% of production costs
and 50% of investment costs. Improved methods of subloan appraisal are being
developed by CNCA for establishing credit eligibility and subloan amounts
nationwide (para. 6.03).
Interest Rates
4.09     Current interest rates on CNCA's loans are presented below:
Table 4.1: CNCA's INTEREST RATES ON LOANS
Per                                      Annualized
HQs and CRCAs        Annum X       CLCAs               Fee /a    Rate (2)
Short-term Loans                       Short-term Loans
Crop Marketing                8.0      Cereals and Pulses       7.0          9.3
Harvest Loans            3.0         12.0
Other                    8.5         11.3
Cereals & Pulses             10.0
Other                        11.0
Medium- & Long-term Loans              Medium- and
Long-term Loans
Over 7 Years                 12.0      All loans               10.5         12.7
Under 7 Years                11.0
Agro-Processing and
Wood Processing Loans /b
Over 7 Years            13.0
Under 7 Years           12.0
Rural Housing /c             12.0/13.0
Rural Land Acquisition       13.0
Coastal Fishing              10.0      (over and under 7 years)
/a For CLCA loans, a front-end fee is charged on the loan amount instead of
an annual interest rate.
/b Maturity periods 2-15 years.
/c With a Government 4X-5% rebate for a new house if its total cost is less
than DH 150.000/100,000 (US$19.000/12,500).



- 16 -
In addition, an appraisal fee of 0.05% is charged on CRCA and headquarters
loans1' and a 0.75% commitment fee on loans over DH 100,000.  Medium- and
long-term loans are also charged a 12 front-end guarantee commission to
partially cover the foreign exchange risk with the exception of loans to small
operators. Interest rares on CNCA's loans are now compatible with those
charged by commercial banks for agricultural loans, which range from 8S to 13X
p.a. on short-term credit and from 12% to 14% p.a. for medium- and long-term
credit.  CNCA's interest rate for agroindustrial loans is 12% to 13% p.a.  The
domestic rate of inflation declined from 7% in 1985 to 4.4% in 1986 and 2.87
in 1987. If this trend is maintained this would keep CNCA's current lending
rates positive in real terms during the project period. However, if real
on-lending rates were to become negative, credit rationing would result, with
large, low risk-borrowers obtaining most of the credit. Increase in the cost
of CNCA's resources would also undermine CNCA's financial viability. A
mechanism has been established under the Fifth and Sixth Agricultural Credit
Projects to adjust CNCA's interest rates on its loans so as to protect its
financial situation. A similar mechanism would be applied under this Project
(para. 6.10(b)).
C. Lendi  ODerations
4.10     In 1986/87, total CNCA lending reached DH 3,229.5 million (Table 4.2),
up from DO 1,741.6 million in 1982/83, for an average rate of growth of 18.4%
p.a. over the period. In real terms, lending increased at about 11.47 per
year.
Table 4.2: CNCA IENDING OVER THE 1982-1987 PERIOD
Average
Growth Rate
1982/83 1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 82/83-86/87
--       -  DH Million) - - - 2
Short-term Lending           869.2    881.2  1,138.6  1,565.5  1,850.7         21.6
of which: CLCAs               96.2    108.4    159.4    256.1    286.0         33.0
Share in Total Lending       50%       51%      43%       51%      57%
Med. & Long-term Lending    872.4    846.4  1,499.5  1,522.5  1,378.8 /a   16.6
of which:  CLCAs             307.7    365.8    678.1    723.6    659.1         25.2
Share in Total Lending       35%       49S      45%       49%      43%
Total Lending              1,741.6  1,727.6  2,638.1  3,088.0  3,229.5         18.4
of which:  CLCAs             403.9    474.2    837.5    979.7    945.1         26.9
Share of CLCAs               23%       27%      327       32%      29%
Total lending in real      1,741.6  1,554.8  2,208.1  2,470.9  2,511.8         11.4
Terms /b
/a About DR 1,600 million for calendar 1987.
/b  Using a GDP deflator of 107 in 1984; 7% in 1985; 4.4% in 1986 and
2.8% in 1987.
1/ On loans of more than DR 5,000.



- 17 -
4.11     Over the period, the share of short-term credit in total credit
increased from 50% to about 57%. Ir. 1986/87 short-term loans to private
farmers primarily financed crop production (37X), animal production (24X) and
animal feed (7%). Short-term credit to State agricultural companies, which
represented 20% of total short-term lending, was used mainly (72%) to finance,
through the ORMVAs, industrial crop production (cotton, sugar beet and sugar
cane) in irrigated perimeters. About 47% of total medium- and long-term
credit went to CLCA clients, 42% to individual CRCA clients and the balance to
Agrarian Reform Cooperatives (22), State companies (22), agroindustries (62),
and rural housing (17).  Four types of investment represented about 837 of
total lending:  livestock (46%), mechanization (18%), construction (10.),-L'
and draft animals (9%).
Credit Coverage
4.12     Between 1982/83 and 1986/87 the total amount of lending to individual
farmers increased from DH 1,306 million to DH 2,483 million, an average
rate of growth of 22.57 p.a. During the same period, loans to small
farmers increased by about 26.97. Excluded from these figures are loans to
Agrarian Reform Cooperatives, whose members are small farmers by definition,
and loans granted through ORMVAs to private farmers (many of whom are also
small-holders) for the production of industrial crops. The extent of CNCA's
credit penetration in rural areas is illustrated in the table below:
Table 4.3: NUMBER OF POTENTIAL AND ACTUAL CNCA INDIVIDUAL CLIENTS /a
No. of                         Actual Clients as %
Farm Size    Individual Farmers      Potential    Actual CNCA Clients   of Potential Clients
(Ha)          Fiscal Income         Clients   1973    1977    1987  1973   1977   1987
(OH)                        -------- (numnber) --------------- (X)---------
Less than 15  CLCA Clients
1 to 7       OH 50-OH 1,600       1,082,800    n.a.  43,710 168,926  n.a.   9.1   15.6
7 to 10      OH 1,600-OH 2,800      133,000    n.a.  52,630 111,587  n.a.  39.6   83.9
10 to 15      OH 2,800-DH 6,000      162.000  - a,.  68.260 142.236  n.a.  421   87.8
Subtotal        1,387,800  64,988 164,600 422,749  4.7   11.9   30.5
More than 15  HO/CRCA Clients          90,000  42,790  52.200  61.362 47.3   57.7   68.2
(more than OH 6,000)
TOTAL              1,477,800 107,779 216,800 484,111  8.1   16.3   32.8
/a Excluding women farmers and artisans and clients reached through Agrarian
Reform Cooperatives and ORMVAs.
3659EP89
Of the approximately 1.9 million farms in Morocco, 480,000 (247) have a fiscal
income of less than DR 502/ and only about 92 of them are eligible for CNCA
credit. In 1986/87, about 484,100 individual farmers had an active file with
CNCA. This corresponds to 32.8% of the total number of CNCA's potential
clients. In addition, it is estimated that another 100,000 farmers were
receiving credit through Agrarian Reform Cooperatives and ORMVAs.
1/ Construction is usually of stables for livestock and thus is often part of
a total on-farm investment in livestock activities.
2/ Corresponding to less than one hectare of marginally productive land or
two sheep.



- 18 -
4.13     About 68% of potential CRCA clients, but only 30% of potential CLCA
clients were receiving credit in 1986/87. For the latter, CNCA penetration
was relatively high for farms having an FI in the DH 1,600-6,000 range (which
corresponds to approximately 5 ha to 15 ha of rainfed land). However, very
few marginal farmers with an FI below DH 1,600 (about 5 ha rainfed land) were
actual CNCA clients, reflecting their low borrowing capacity and their lack of
participation in the monetized economy. The increase in the number of CNCA
clients has followed the expansion of the network of CRCA and CLCA offices.
In 1973, there were 21 CRCAs and 54 CLCAs; in 1977, 24 and 88 respectively; in
1987, 44 and 108. During this period the number of CLCA L'ients has increased
at an average rate of 15% p.a. A sharp increase in 1981/82 coincided with the
opening of 90 seasonal credit outlets to bring credit facilities closer to
farmers, while containing distribution costs. Given the already current high
coverage level of CRCA clients (68%), only modest scope exists to increase
coverage of this category of clients. Nevertheless, the planned development
of CNCA physical infrastructure during the period of the Project (para. 6.12)
would permit an overall increase in the number of CNCA's clients, in both
CLCAs and CRCAs and as both credit and banking customers.
Recoveries
4.14     CNCA credit recoveries have been good in the past (e.g., 85% in
1979). After several years of deterioration due in part to successive
droughts, action is presently envisaged to redress the fclling repayment rates
(low point of 61% end August 1987). Key indicators on CNCA loan recovery for
1982 to 1988 are simmarized below:
Table 4.4: CNCA RECOVERY RATES (198:-1988)/a
82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88
_________- - _-___(%)___________---    ______
- Headquarters              64       71      78       75      70    75
- CRCAs                     66       80      67       66      65    80
- CLCAs                     59       65      61       57      52    61
-Average Recovery Rate      64       74      67       64      61    76 /b
/a   On principal due and overdue after payment of interest due.
/b As of end June 1988. Arrears/Loans ratio is about 14%.
4.15     In the past, recovery rates have usually been slightly higher at the
end of the calendar year than at the end of CNCA's fiscal year (August
31),-i because loans normally fell due in the July-August period. Part of
the overdues at the end of August were in fact recovered by the end of the
calendar year. The improvement to 76% at the end of June 1988, however, is
essentially the result of follow-up taken by CNCA to improve its recovery
performance. About 30% of total arrears are overdue for over 15 months as of
end June 1988. CNCA policy for bad debt provisions and specific proposals to
improve it are examined in para. 4.20.
1/ As of 1988, CNCA fiscal year is January 1 - December 31.



- 19 -
4.16     Measures to increase loan collection--after writing off uncollectible
arrears if necessary and rescheduling certain debts in case of drought--
include the application of the "Privilege d'Etat-'L which has been
revitalized by CNCA in 1987/88, deducting loan repayments from crop payments,
denying further credit to borrowers in arrears, and realization of security.
CICA recovery procedures are efficient, and repayment discipline is good when
the crop season is good, which is the case for the 1987/88 crop season.
D. Financial Situation and Performance
Financial Condition
4.17     Resources. As of August 31, 1987, CNCA's total balance sheet
including provisions (4%) amounted to DH 9,422.5 million=' (US$1,178
million). This represented a yearly compounded increase of about 50% over the
1982-87 period (total 1982 assets: DH 3,673.5 million). Table 4.5 shows the
distribution of CNCA's resources (liabilities) for 1985 to 1987. CNCA's
detailed financial statements are in Annex 7.
Table 4.5: CNCA RESOURCES AS OF AUGUST 31 /a
(in DH Million)
1985              1986              1987
Amount   X        Amount   X        Amount   %
Capital                          135.9   2          135.9   2         135.9   1.5
Reserves /b                      453.4   7          534.8   6         622.3   6.5
Total Equity                     589.3   9          670.7   8         758.2   8
Provisions                       217.7   3.5       291.1   3.5        409.1   4
Deposits                         921.6  14.5    1,143.3  13.5    1,201.8  13
Savings Bonds                    302.0   5       1,130.3  13       1,103.5  12
Other Current                    402.0   6         506.7   6          572.6   6
Liabilities/c
Long Term                      4,021.4  62       4,668.3  56       5,377.3  57
Liabilities /d
Total Liabilities              5,864.7  91       7,739.7  92       8,664.3  92
TOTAL                      6,454.0 100       8,410.4 100       9,422.5 100
/a  End of CNCA's fiscal year, before it was changed to December 31 as of 1988
/b  Including special funds (CLCAs) for DH 213.9 million
/c  Including current maturities of long-term debt, i.e. (in DH million) 200
in 1985; 215.5 in 1986; and 342.8 in 1987.
/d  Including managed funds, i.e. (in DH million) 229 in 1985; 341.8 in 1986;
and 250 in 1987.
1/  The "Privilege d'Etat" (or "Privilege du Tresor") is a forceful measure
enacted by law, which has been granted to CNCA on a permanent basis to
help recovery of loans from clients in serious default.
2/  DH 10,024 million as of December 31, 1987



- 20 -
During the 1985-1987 period, the average annual rate of increase of the total
balance sheet stabilized at 23% in current terms, but this indicates that CNCA
is still growing. As of August 31, 1987 long-term borrowings (DH 5,034.6
million) plus current maturities (DH 342.8 million) represented 57% of CNCA's
total resources. About 95% of long-term borrowings were external borrowings,
of which DH 2,236 million (42%) were from the World Bank. Domestic long-term
borrowings increased from DR 16 million in 1985 to DH 2U1 million in 1987
(401 p.a.), i.e., at a higher rate of increase than external long-term
borrowings (28T p.a.), which indicates recent CNCA efforts to mobilize
domestic resources. The relative decline in CNCA's capital adequacy as
measured by the ratio of equity to ris assets"' (about 12.4% in 1987
compared to 14% in 1985) indicates that the institution will not be able to
generate internal equity fast enough to compensate for the planned increase in
lending volume and business development. While capital adequacy during the
Project period is expected to remain above the 8% of risk assets that is
generally being adopted as the international standard for commercial bank
capitalization, the trend line would be monitored annually during project
implementation (para. 6.10(b)).
4.18     Deposits.  The relative share of deposits in CNCA's total resources
decreased slightly from 14.5% in 1985 to 13.5% in 19&7, as did the number of
depositors, which dropped from 53,700 in 1985 to 52,500 in 1987. The decrease
in the number of deposit customers is explained by the elimination of empty
accounts. The total amount of deposits, however, increased from DH 922
million in 1985 to DR 1,202 million in 1987 (+302). Core deposits are
primarily those repayable on demand (sight deposits), and are collected mostly
by CNCA's headquarters and major branches (75%). Deposit collection at CLCA
level, however, jumped from 2% of total deposits in 1985 to 25% in 1987 as a
result of all CLCAs offering savings passbooks (super carnets verts) to
accustom small farmers to financial savings. In 1987, CNCA started to serve
new markets including women farmers and artisans. Since June 1988, it has
also been serving Moroccan working abroad. As of December 31, 1987, the total
savings of Moroccan workers abroad deposited in Moroccan banks (chiefly Banque
Populaire) amounted to DH 15 billion, i.e., 30% of the total deposits
collected by the whole local banking system. Until 1988, this important
source of funds remained untapped by CNCA. To be successful in attracting
significant amounts of private deposits and savings, CNCA will have to:
(a) consider the generation of deposits as a major objective;
(b) improve the physical aspect of its branch network;
(c)  diversify and promote ' the financial instruments available to
depositors and savers; and
(d) train its personnel in the promotion and administration of
competitive banking activities.
4.19     Savings Bonds.  To channel more domestic resources into agriculture,
and to allow CNCA to meet vastly increased credit demand after the 1980/81
drought, commercial banks were required to invest 3.5% of their
1/ Loans, and bills discounted.
2/ CNCA has already a few competitive advantages: payment of up to 5% p.a.
on ctrrent accounts; branch offices open on Saturdays.



- 21 -
deposits in agriculture tlhrough CNCA, in the form of CNCA bonds at X p.a.
(now 4.25%). However, commercial banks are unlikely to make great progress in
financing investment in agriculture, in particular small farms because of the
high risk and cost involved, and expertise needed. This is why CNCA has to be
made stronger to meet the double challenge of:
(a) competition from well-organized and liquid commercial banks for
normal types of banking activities; and
(b)  specialization, to fulfill its basic mission of financing the
traditional rural sector.
In most rural areas, there is not yet enough business to support two
institutions. Savings bonds have stabilized at DH 1.1 billion since 1986, and
represented about 12% of CNCA's total resources as of August 31, 1987 (13% in
1986).
Loan Portfolo QualitY
4.20     Collection performance and appropriate provisions are good indicators
of loan portfolio quality. Overall, CNCA's sound track record compared to
other agricultural finance institutions makes it an attractive recipient of
funding from external donor agencies. Collection performance, however, has
stagnated these past years (para. 4.14), and this has led to a certain degree
of uncertainty as to the real value of CNCA's loan portfolio and thus the
adequacy..of its loan loss provisions and real capital. In July 1988, CNCA
made the prudent decisions to convert its current provisions of DH 409.1
milliohi into a special reserve for unpaid loans, and to introduce an improved
approach to calculating new provisions as of 1988. The improved approach
would include a systematic loan evaluation and classification system for all
loans above a certain amount"' to single borrowers or related entities.
Each borrower would be reviewed, at least annually, on the occurrence of any
change in the credit lines approved or significant change in the borrower's
condition. A standard classification would be applied based on the extent of
pa8t dues, if any, the financial condition of the borrower, the quality of the
documentation, the value of the security held, and the specific loan loss
potential identified for the total outstanding to each financially troubled
borrower or related group of borrowers. CNCA plans to define by December 31,
1989, appropriate loan classification levels, criteria and related risk level
guidelines, and set up the monitoring process. This will allow CNCA to
maintain in its accourts an adequate level of provision for bad debts that
covers 100% of the real risk of default as determined by analyzing overdues
annually. These steps are essential to establishing CNCA's market reputation
for financial responsibility. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
CNCA would apply policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank for loan
loss provisioning.
Overal Operating Results and Profitabiity
4.21     CNCA's operating results are positive, it is profitable and appears
financially sound. CNCA's financial status for 1985-87 is presented in the
summary balance sheets, income statements, and flow of funds statements in
1/  Initially quite high, but to be lowered progressively to DH 500,000 or
DR 1 million.



- 22 -
Annex 7, Tables 1 to 3. CNCA's net profit in 1987 was DH 87.4 million,
compared with DH 81.4 million in 1986, and DH 71.7 million in 1985
(DO 29.6 million in 1982). CNCA's financial performance during this period
can be summarized as follows:
Table 4.6:  CNCA FINAYCIAL PERFORMANCE 1985-87 (AUGUST 31)
(DH Million)
1985            1986             1987
Interest income                        480.1           652.5            794.3
Interest expense                      (217.4)         (319.3)          (404.8)
Operating Income                       262.7           333.2            389.5
Staff cost                              93.5           110.4            128.9
Depreciation                             5.4             6.9              9.0
Other expenses                          21.0            25.8             28.5
Operating Expenses                    (119.9)         (143.1)          (166.4)
Net Operating Result /a                142.8           190.1            223.1
Other income                            21.5            23.7             26.8
Provisions for 16sses                  (90.0)          (73.5)          (148.3)
Exchange risk provisions                 -             (57.3)           (17.9)
KfW interest rebate                                      2.1              6.6
Prior period adjustments                (2.6)           (3.7)            (2.9)
Net Profit /b                           71.7            81.4             87.4
Free Reserves                           71.7            81.4             87.4
Ratios (%):
Return on assets                         1.15            1.00             0.97
Return on equity                        12.2            12.1             11.6
/a Operating income less operating expenses
/b  Since its creation in 1961, CNCA was exempt from income tax (till end
1987). As a Government development bank, it does not pay dividends.
CNCA's average cost of funds in 1987 was roughly 5.7%, compared with 3.8% in
1982. The profit and loss data in Table 4.06 show that the gross interest
margin (operating income) over the 1985-87 period has declined from 55% of
interest income in 1985 to 49% in 1987. The financial results indicate that
the new management of CNCA will need at least two years to improve the
performance of CNCA while converting the bank into a more viable and
commercially competitive entity. Overall profitability remained satisfactory
over the 1985-87 period, with a return on equity of 12% as against 5% in 1982,
and the current trend line towards declining returns is being addressed under
the Project (para. 6.10(b)).
4.22     CLCA Operations.  Since 1984 the CLCA operations have generated
sufficient income to cover costs and to generate a small profit in some years,



- 23 -
despite the higher administrative cost involved in lending to small farmers.
Consequently, the CLCAs currently represent a highly efficient, low-cost
agricultural finance window, and it will be difficult to make improvements
without increasing costs. The managers and staff of the CLCAs are highly
productive in credit operations. Possible areas of improvement include
providing on-line point of entry accounting support through microcomputers to
those CLCAs whose electrical power supply and maintenance facilities are
sufficiently reliable. There is, however, some risk involved in disturbing
the existing practices in those offices where the paper-based system is well
understood and is working. Compared with the CLCAs, which are already quite
efficient, the less-efficient CRCAs represent the single greatest opportunity
for short-term improvements in productivity in credit operations, operations
processing and business development (para. 6.10(d)).
E. CNCA's Development Objectives and Strate
4.23          In 1987, the Government of Morocco reemphasized the role of CNCA
in the development of the country's rural sector. New orientations for CNCA
include:
(a) its transformation into a universal, full-service bank with a
qualified and responsible Board of Directors, while maintaining its
traditional farm credit specificity;
(b) expansion.of CNCA's credit operations, to serve a larger number of
farmers, particularly small farmers, diversification of lending and
banking' acivities to other subsectors, including fisheries,
agroindustries, forestry, land consolidation, rural housing,
artisanal and other rural activities; and
(c) ensurance of CNCA's managerial autonomy and financial viability.
CNCA has subsequently defined the following medium-term development objectives
consistent with its charter (para. 4.01) and with the new orientations
outlined above. CNCA's objectives are to:
(a) assure the continuity of CNCA by rational policies of work
organization, staffing, business development, financial viability,
and relations with Government, borrowers, depositors, and financiers;
(b) improve its future resource positior, to meet the currently planned
levels of agricultural, commercial and other diversified lending, by
mobilizing demand, time and savings deposits, as well as new external
funds during the Project period;
(c) develop long-term plans to strengthen and diversify its business base
and its asset and liability stxucture, and ensure that CNCA continues
to h"av an effective role as the lead bank in the financing of the
agricultural sector;
(d) pursue the decentralization of its credit and other banking
operations by setting annual objectives at decentralized levels of
operations for the use of funds, deposits and savings, and loan



- 24 -
recovery, by restructuring its branch network in the major regions of
the country, and by opening new full service branches in rural areas;
and
(e)  improve its operational efficiency by simplifying management tasks
and procedures for some of its banking products, deveioping new
banking services, improving the processing and supervision of loans
and operations, and modernizing its management information and
accounting systems (MIS).
To help CNCA achieve these objectives the Project will support the institution
to:
(a)  develop a long-term strategic and operational planning system
(para. 6.10 and Annex 11);
(b)  set up a sound internal organization and a computerized management
information system (MIS), to allow for more efficient planning,
budgeting, accounting, risk asset and liability management, branch
network coordination, control function management, and personnel
management; and
(c) implement a pluri-annual training program for CNCA's managers and
-staff (para. 6.11).
The Project includes financing for technical assistance in planning, MIS
software, computer equipment, staff training and equipment, and branch network
refurbishing/modernization and expansion (para. 5.03(b)).
F. CNCA's Proiected Lending Program
and Financing Requirements (1989-1991)
4.24     Based on past trends, the Government's objectives and investment
priorities under the 1988-92 Orientation Plan' and on CNCA's own development
and diversification strategy, CNCA's total lending (Avnex 1), after
stabilizing in 1987/88 is projected to increase again during the coming years
to reach as much as DH 7,200 million (US$900 million) in 1991 with a ratio of
short-term to medium-term credit of about 1:1. Under normal weather
conditions, annual growth of total lending in real terms is expected to be
about 16% from 1989 to 1991. Should irregular weather conditions occur,
annual growth would be about 7%. The resources necessary to finance such a
lending program will primarily come from domestic sources through: (a) the
repayment of outstanding subloans; (b) increased deposit mobilization; and (c)
financial revenues. The remaining financing needs will be financed from
external sources.  The Project' cofinanciers would provide the external
financing necessary. Rediscounting facilities available to CNCA from the Bank
Al-Magbrib and the expected increase in deposits (mostly sight deposits) would
provide CNCA with the resources necessary to finance its short-term lending
program. The Project would provide CNCA with long-term resources to finance
its medium- and long-term lending program.



- 25 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement and Project Objectives
5.01     RationaleforBankInvolvement.  The Project is consistent with the
Bank's policy on lending through financial intermediaries (para. 5.02) and it
is an important element in the Bank's assistance strategy for agriculture
which includes a long-term effort to promote private sector investment and
build the institutional framework required to sustain this. Consistent with
this strategy, the Project would also support efforts to increase the quali;v
and volume of investments in agroindustries and fisiheries, both of which have
good export potential. It would help CNCA design a strategy to mobilize
savings and deposits from domestic sources and from Moroecan workers abroad as
part of resource mobilization efforts. Through the Project, the Bank would
also support CNCA's efforts to raise US$298 million of additional cofinancing
for investments in the sector (para. 5.19). The Bank would cover the
financing gap (US$190 million), equivalent to about 38% of the foreign
exchange component of the Project (i.e., 13% of total cost).
5.02     Project Objectives.  The Project would assist Morocco in meeting
national objectives set by the Government and CNCA for agricultural credit for
1988-92. These are to:
(a)  increase the impact of credit in agricultural development,
production, and food self-sufficiency;
(b)  favor private investment in high return projects with emphasis on
export production;
(c)  diversify CNCA clientele and activities;
(d)  increase domestic resource mobilization and provide a full range of
banking services and products to the farmer community and to nonfarm
clients and enterprises; and
(e)  strengthen CNCA's institutional and financial performance.
In addition to pursuing the efficiency reforms launched under the Government's
adjustment programs supported by the Bank through ASAL II, the Project would
help achieve a key transition in CNCA's institutional development by:
(a)  converting CNCA into a full-service bank with increased managerial
autonomy and financial viability;
(b)  strengthening CNCA's management structure and MIS on a decentralized
basis;
(c)  improving CNCA's appraisal procedures (including environmental
impact);
(d)  developing new areas of its lending activities, including private
agro-industrial exporters, fishermen, and artisans; and
(e)  developing skills needed to manage the changed organization, assist
CNCA's clientele (notably women clients and small farmers) and
promote a complete range of competitive banking services/products.



- 26 -
B. Summary Project Description
5.03     To achieve the above objectives, the Project would support over a
four-year implementation period (July 1989-June 1993) the following activities:
(a) CNCA Credit Program. First, the Project would continue
financing: (i) on-farm and forestry investments by private farmers,
enterprises and cooperatives; (ii) agro-industry investments; and
(iii) investments in rural housing construction. Second, as new
elements of the proposed credit program, the Project would support
CNCA financing of: (i) working capital for agro-industrial
exporters; (ii) private coastal fisheries; (iii) private artisans,
with a special effort being made to support women's activities; (iv)
rural nonfarm enterprises; and (v) land consolidation;
(b)  Institutional Development.  The Project would fund:  (i) the training
program and equipment needed to better manage CNCA as a universal
bank, assist CNCA's clientele, and promote export-related operations
and lending to women; (ii) training specialists; (iii) professional
visits overseas for local trainers and managers; (iv) consulting
services required for the strengthening of management and to support
Project implementation; and (v) the construction or rehabilitation of
a new tranche of CNCA's regional and local branch offices and other
facilities.
C. Detailed Features
CNCA Credit Program
5.04     Investment Lending to SmaU Farmers.  This component would finance
about 450,000 subloans for on-farm investment by small private farmer clients
of CLCAs. Investment would mainly be for livestock, draft animals, stables,
wells and pumps, land improvement, small mechanization and on-farm storage.
The loans for this component (US$289 million) would represent about 271 of
total lending under the Project.
5.05     Investment Lending to Medium and Large Farmers.  This component
would finance about 80,000 subloans to co;4"ercial clients of CRCAs or CNCA
headquarters (including Agrarian Reform cooperatives) for on-farm investments
in response to market demand. Lending would be mainly for agricultural
machinery such as tractors and harvesters, transport, wells and irrigation,
greenhouse construction and equipment, plantations, livestock and land
improvement. In addition, CNCA would finance maintenance operations
undertaken by smallholders in large irrigation perimeters under the
supervision of ORMVAs. The loans for this component (US$457 million) would
represent about 43% of total lending under the Project.
5.06     Lendin to Agroindustries.  This component would mainly finai4ce
investment in private small- and medium-size enterprises consisting of fruit
and vegetable packing and processing, olive oil processing and dairy
production, flour milling, meat and fish processing, poultry, animal feed and
storage. Lending for this component (US$30 million) would represent about 31
of total lending.
5.07     Lendig for the Construction of RuralHousin.  The main objective of
this component is to provide well-targeted credit for construction of



- 27 -
individual and collective rural housing for farm families, agricultural
laborers and other rural families in order to reduce migration to urban
areas. This component will finance about 2,500 - 3,000 loans, mainly for low-
and medium-income families. The total amount of lending under this component
(US$30 million) would represent about 32 of total lending.
5.08     Working Capital Financing for Private Agro-Processing Exporters.  The
main objective of this component is to provide, on a revolving basis,
temporary short-term financing of imports to be used for export production.
An aggregate maximum of US$30 million (about 3% of total lending) would be
allocated for this purpose. CNCA plans, subject to Government's approval, to
hold in foreign accounts the amounts repaid under the working capital
subloans, to pay foreign suppliers directly. After about three years of
Project implementation, i.e., starting in July 1992, these funds would be
gradually reallocated to investment financing, if foreign exchange in Morocco
is available without shortage. Eligibility criteria and possible export
financing terms and conditions are described in para. 6.06.
5.09     Lending to Private Coastal Fisheries.  Lending under this component,
which is a new activity for CNCA, will be highly selective, and limited to:
(a) fishery activities selected according to the Government's and CNCA's new
priorities and objectives in the sub-sector; and (b) the supply of fishing
gear and equipment, major repair and the renewal of engines and boats to
private fishermen, in particular coastal fishermen, who have a demonstrated
record of fishing performance and creditworthiness in Morocco. Lending for
this component (US$110 million) would represent about 10% of total lending
under the Project.
5.10     Lending to Artisanal and Other Rural Activities.  CNCA has developed
experimental saving and lending products for artisanal and non-farm rural
clients. These products are particularly successful with women clients in the
Khemisset area. The Project would further develop these promising activities
and finance women borrowers, cooperatives and pre-cooperatives in a few
selected areas: Khemisset, Rommani, and other potential areas that could
emerge during Project implementation.  Investment and working capital
financing would be mainly for weaving activities, home-based textile workshops
("confection & couture"), livestock activities and domestic services. This
component will also provide funds for other rural nonfarm enterprises
consisting of private small-scale enterprises/young promoters engaged in
off-farm activites in rural areas such as service cooperatives and trading
services, crop transport, tractor repairs and maintenance, input and spare
parts supply, forest exploitation/reforestation and environmental protection,
artisanal industries, and construction. CNCA will carefully select the
nonfarm enterprises to be financed. The total amount of lending under this
pilot component (US$18 million) would represenc about 2% of total lending
under the Project.
5.11     Land Consoidation CreditProgram.  The objective of this program,
recently launched by CNCA, is to give private farmers access to credit to
purchase land as part of the Government adjustment program for land policy
supported by ASAL II. The rationale for this is to promote the establishment
of economically viable production units through land consolidation and
prevention of land fragmentation. The total amount of lending under this
program, which is not funded by the Bank (local cost component), would
represent about 9% of total lending by CNCA under the Project (US$100 million).



- 28 -
Institutional Development
5.12     Improvement of CNCA's Organizational Structure, Planning Process
and MIS. The Project would provide for:
(a)  strengthening the organizational structure of CNCA (para. 4.01);
(b)  setting-up a planning unit or department reporting to CNCA's Chief
Executive Officer, and responsible for elaborating corporate
objectives with the CEO, communicating them to lower levels within
the organization for implementation, and managing the planning
process (Annex 11); and
(c) further improvement of CNCA's MIS and accounting and expansion of
computerization.
The Project would finance: (i) about 50 microcomputers and related software
for the CNCA's branches not yet computerized under CNCA VI; and (ii) mainframe
hardware and related office equipment to strengthen and modernize the office
technology of CNCA's headquarters and Departments. The Project would also
finance the related training needs (para. 5.13), the maintenance contract for
the computer equipment during a three-year period, and consulting services if
necessary (para. 5.14).
5.13     Project-Related Trinin.  The Project would fund training of CNCA in
skills identified by the survey conducted during project preparation by CNCA's
Training Department with the assistance of consultants. The pluri.-annual
training program would include all the elements likely to ease CNCA's
institutional transition, i.e., courses in human resources management,
marketing and development, banking products and services, and applied
technologies. Training would also include courses in credit appraisal,
environmental planning, and portfolio management for credit staff; accounting
for middle level and operational staff; planning, programming, MIS, management
control, and communication skills for senior staff; electronic data processing
for computer staff and computer users; and banking services for branch
managers and selected support staff. The Project would also finance
equipment, professional visits overseas for senior managers, and as necessary
the recruitment of appropriate training specialists (para. 5.14). A total of
about 1,000 staff would be trained under the Project. Details of the training
objectives, plan and activities are available in Project working document
No. 5.
5.14     TechnicalAssistance.  Technical assistance could be of considerable
help in speeding up CNCA's reforms and in training CNCA's top staff. This is
particularly true for the planning process and other organizational/MIS
aspects, and for CNCA's new banking services. The Project would finance the
expertise necessary to support CNCA's reforms, Project implementation and
training, up to a total of 15 man/months of consultants/training specialists.
The total cost of consultants is estimated at US$0.3 million.
5.15     CNCA Offices and Branch Network.  The Project would finarce a new
phase (1989-1992) of CNCA's program of refurbishing/modernization and
construction of its branch offices and other facilities to establish a more
suitable environment for banking operations that would facilitate physical
access of farmers and other clients to CNCA's banking facilities in rural and



- 29 -
urban areas. The total cost of this physical infrastructure would be about
US$4.4 million.
D. Project Cost Estimates
5.16     Estimated Cost.  The total Project cost is estimated at US$1,532
million equivalent, including US$502 million equivalent (or about 33X) in
foreign exchange and US$179 million equivalent in related taxes and duties
(12%). Baseline estimates are expressed in May 1989 prices. The credit
component is based on financial projections that ta.e account of past lending
and the increase in lending expected under: (a) normal weather conditions
(para. 4.24); (b) improved lending procedures (paras. 6.03 to 6.05), and (c)
the expansion and diversification of CNCA's activities (para. 4.23). Physical
investment targets have been only approximately estimated since the indicative
lending program would vary in response to the market demand. Subsectoral
allocation of funds within CNCA lending programs is determined through an
annual planning process and scheme approvals. The institutional component
includes price-" and physical contingencies (the latter estimated at 152 for
CNCA infrastructure and 10X for computer hardware and software), other
equipment, consultant and training costs. Detailed cost estimates are
presented in Annex 3 and are summarized in Table 5.1.
1/ Project price increases (S p. a.):
1988     1989      1990     1991      1992
Domestic          2.4      4.5       5.0      5.0       5.0
International    1.0       1.0       1.0      3.5       3.5



- 30 -
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    % Foreign  X Total
-------OH Hillion      -    ------USS Million------    Exchange         Cost
1. CREDIT COMPONENT                         8Lh   L3  6    12.17f         1.02L RZZ         1.35                      _2
FARMLRS                               7.480   2,304    9,784         93S       288   1.223           22         80
Construction                         944      168    1.112        118        21      139          15         (9)
Equipment                          2.440   1.808    4.248         305       226      531          43        (35)
Livestock                          2,952     328    3,280         369        41      410          10        (27)
Land Consolidation                 1.144        -    1.144        143         -      143           0         (9)
AGRO-INDUSTRIES                          88      256       344         11       32       43          74          3
RURAL  11OSIN                           208      136      344         26        17       43          40          3
WORKING CAPITAL FOR EXPORTERS             -      240       240          -       30       30         100          2
COASTAL FISHERIES                       312      944    '.256          39      118      157          75         10
ARTISANS/b AND RLURAL
NONFARM ENTERPRISES                  128      80       208         16        10       26          40          1
2. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                   2Li    MA          Ka.O        L         fi                 Z 1.  z
Physical infrastructure                  16.8    11.2       28.0        2.1      1.4      3.5        40          -
Institutional development lI              4.0    32.0       36.0       0.8       4.0      4.5        89          -
ease cost                                20.8    43.2       64.0        2.6      5.4      8.0        68          _
Physical contingencies                    2.4      5.6      8.0        0.3       0.7      1.0        70          -
Price contingencies                       2.4      5.6      8.0        0.3       0.7      1.0        70          -
3. TOTAL PROJECT COST (1+21                 L..ZSJ,  LILA.J  J.2LZ    1.JL2    ILL A          .1A          33        JaA
of which:
Total Base Cost                       8,236.8 4.003.2   12.240   1,029.6    500.4   1,530            33          -
Contingencies                             4.8    11.2       16.0       0.6       1.4      2.0        70          -
/a    Includes US$179 million equivalent of taxes and duties.
/b    Includes financing of women borrowers.
iL    Includes US$0.3 million equivalent of consultants/training specialists. US$S million of equipment and
US$0.3 million of related services.
E. PROJECT FINANCING
5.17         FinancingPlan.   Financirng  of the  Project would  be as  follows:
Table 5.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Sub-      CNCA                                                    Total       Total
Borrowers' Own FundS   Bank   ADO   FADES   KfW   EIB   OECF  Sublending  Project
Equity                                                                         Costs
A.    Small Farmers                  124 /a    199        40      25       -     25      -     -        289        413
8.    Mediux 8 Large Farmers         200        234       76      20      17     10    40    70         467        667
C.    Agro-Industries                 13          5       1S       -       -      -    10      -         30         43
D.    Rural Housing                   13         20        10      -       -      -      -     -         30         43
E.    Working Capital for              -          -       30       -       -      -      -     -         30         so
Exporters
F.    Coastal Fisheries               47         35       20      12      13      -    1I    20        l11         157
G.    Artisans and Rural               8         10         2      3       -      3      -      -        18         26
Non-Farm EnterPrises
N.    Land Consolidation              43         90         -     10       -      -      -      -       100        143
I.    Institutional Development        -          3         7 /h   -       -      -      -     -          -         10
TOTAL                         448        U           n     zn 7     n      la   fi Q    nn     1 OZ4    1UZ
X                           29         39        13      5       2       2     4      7        70        100
/1    Of which 1OX from the Agricultural Development Fund created January 1  1986 to promote Investments aiming
at the Intensification of production on Small Farms in accordance with the Agricultural Investment Code.
(Annex e ).
/bincludes US$1.4 million of civil works for CNCA branch network (physital infrastrutture).



- 31 -
5.18     The proposed Bank Loan of $190.0 million would be made to CNCA to
finance part of: (a) CNCA's lending operations (US$183 million); (b) the
physical infrastruct:ire (US$1.4 million); (c) the installation of data
processing facilities and other equipment (US$5.0 million); and (d) training
programs and other services (US$0.3 million), as well as the provision of
technical assistance for Project implementation (US$0.3 million). The
Government would guarantee repayment and share the foreign exchange risk with
CNCA and its sub-borrowers in accordance with a formula established by the
Government under the ITPA II Loan, further developed under the Sixth Line of
credit to CNCA and amended in May 1989 at the Government's request (para.
5.20). The Bank loan would be for 20 years, including five years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate. Repayments of subloans not needed to
service the Bank loan would be recycled by CNCA for additional subloans.
5.19     The balance of foreign exchange requirements (US$312 million)
would be provided in the following manner: ADB (US$70 million), EIB
(US$60 million), FADES (US$30 million), KfW (US$38 million), OECF
(US$100 million). The remainder (US$14 million) would come from CNCA's
funds. Local currency costs would be financed by sub-borrowers' equity
contribution (US$448 equivalent) and by CNCA's own resources (US$582
equivalent). With regard to the Project credit component, Table 5.3 provides
a summary of the cofinanciers' lending terms and conditions as well as their
contribution to each of CNCA's sublending categories:
Table 5.3: COFINANCING BY CATEGORY
CNCA's Sublending Share
Grace   Interest    by Category and Source /a
Amount   Maturity    Period    Rate       A   B   C   D   E   F   G   H
WUS$M)   (Years)      (Years)  (( p.a.)  -
Bank       183         20           5      7.6 /b 16  16  50  33  77  18  11   -
ADB         70         16           4      8.5      9   4   -   -   -  11  17  10
FADES       30         15           5      4.0      -   4   -   -   -  12   -   -
KfW         38         30          10      2.0      9   2   -   -   -   -  17   -
EIB /c      60         18           5      8.0 /b  -   9  33   -   -   9   -   -
OECF       100         30          10      3.5   -    15   -   -  33  18   -   -
TOTAL  481 /d                          6.4    34  50  83  33 100  68  45  10
/a  For definition of category see Table above.
/b Variable rate.
/c ECU 50 million.
/d Total CNCA lending US$1074 million.
Cofinancing of the Project credit component including the Bank loan would
amount to the equivalent of US$464 million and would cover 92% of the foreign
exchange requirements. The Bank loan would also finance 47X of the total co8t
of CNCA's branch network development over the Project period, and 100% of the
cost of computer and related equipment/services, training, and technical
assistance. The EIB loan agreement was concluded at the beginning of 1989.
Conclusion of the KfW, ADB, FADES and OECF loan agreements would be required
before June 30, 1990.



- 32 -
5.20     Treatment of Foreign Exchange Risk. Until 1985, Government supported
100% of CNCA's foreign exchange losses, although the Treasury was slow to
reimburse foreign exchange losses to CNCA, placing a heavy burden on CNCA's
liquidity. Under the Sixth Line of c:edit to CNCA, and in support of the new
policy developed under the ITPA II (June 1985) the Treasury transferred to
CNCA and its sub-borrowers a significant part of the foreign exchange losses
incurred on CNCA's external borrowings. A revised scheme was established
under the letter No. 3/3789 dated May 9, 1989 from the Minister of Finance to
the CEO of CNCA, establishing the level of participation of CNCA in foreign
exchange losses. The scheme now introduced by the Government for CNCA amends
and improves on the ITPA II scheme. The risk will be shared in the manner
described below:
(a) CNCA bears full cost of the foreign exchange losses incurred from
variations of up to 2X in the foreign exchange rate on its non
concessionary foreigr. borrowings contracted before December 31, 1988;
(b) a Foreign Exchange Risk Fund in the name of the Treasury is
maintained on CNCA's books into which CNCA deposits: (i) the
proceeds of a commission of 1% to be charged, as of January 1, 1989,
on medium- and long-term loans with the exception of loans for rural
housing and of all loans made by the CLCAs; and (ii) the excess of
CNCA's average lending rate (10.5 to 11.51) over the non
concessionary interest rates oni foreign borrowings plus a margin to
assure adequate profitability.. This margin will be 3% for the non
concessionary borrowings contracted before January 1, 1989, and 2%
after January 1, 1989. Under the National Agricultural Credit
Project, these margins will be;also applied to the CLCAs; any losses
on non concessionary lending in eicess of those covered by the Risk
Fund would be borne by the Government;
(c) the exchange risk generated by the ongoing concessionary borrowings
(KfW, EEC and USAID) and those to be contracted, should be covered
1001 by CNCA. CNCA will make all necessary provisions for risk to
this effect.
Under this revised scheme, the Government will reimburse CNCA its share of
foreign exchange losses due each semester, within three months. In July 1988,
Government settled its 1986 and 1987 foreign exchange arrears to CNCA (DR 241
million) with five-year Treasury bonds at 6% interest rate p.a., and in April
1989 it settled its 1988 arrears to CNCA (DR 110 million).
F. Procurement
5.21     Procurement arrangements under the Project are summarized in
Table 5.4 and described in paras. 5.22 to 5.26.



- 33 -
Table 5.4: PROCUREMENT METHODS
(US$ million) /a
ICB    LCB    Other /b   N/A Total Cost
1.  Farm machinery, farm           -       -     1,379.0   143.0 /c 1,522.0
and nonfarm equipment                         (183.0)   (0.0)   (183.0)
& implements, livestock,
fishing gear, civil works
and working capital under
subloans
2.  Civil works for CNCA           -       4.4       -        -         4.4
Branch network and offices            (1.4)                        (1.4)
3.  Computer and other equipment  5.0    -           -        -          5.0
for CNCA                      (5.0)                                (5.0)
4.  Consultants /d                 -       -         0.3      -          0.3
(0.3)              (0.3)
5. Sofware, computer               -       -         0.3      -         0.3
maintenance, training                           (0.3)              (0.3)
programs
TOTAL                          5.0    4.4   1,379.6   143.0   1,532.0
(5.0)  (1.4)   (183.6)   (0.0)   (190.0)
/a  Figures in parentheses represent Bank loan financing.
/b See paras 5.22, 5.25 & 5.26.
/c Land consolidation credit program.
/d  Includes training specialists.
5.22  Investments financed by CNCA's loans.  The goods and civil works to be
financed under the Project for on-farm and nonfarm investments would not be
suitable for bulk procurement because of their variety, the small size of
individual investments, and the wide dispersion of contracts both in location
and time. Private dealers in Morocco sell and service a large variety of
tractor makes and other farm equipment and implements. Both the international
suppliers market and private contractors and suppliers are well represented.
Competition is keen and prices competitive. Sub-borrowers would therefore
purchase, under CNCA supervision (para. 6.07), farm machinery and equipment
from eligible sources of their choice and commit civil works through existing
local channels. As in the case of other Bank-financed projects in the
industrial sector in Morocco,-L  procurement for the agroindustry component
would also be undertaken through existing local channels and according to
normal commercial practices in Morocco, where the inherent self-interest of
eligible competing companies has led to almost universal competitive bidding
or shopping.
1/    BNDE Projects (Loans 1428-MOR, 2037-MOR and 2806-MOR).



- 34 -
5.23     CNCA'sBranchNetworkandOffices.  Civil works for new construction
and for rehabili'ation of CNCA's branch offices would be undertaken all over
the country and executed through small contracts of an average unit cost of
about US$0.4 million. These works, valued in total at about US$4.4 million,
would not be of interest to foreign contractors and may be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally (LCB). ICB would be required
for other facilities. A sufficiently large and representative number of
construction firms are operating in Morocco to ensure competitive prices under
LCB procedures. In order to ensure that LCB procedures are in conformity with
Bank requirements:
(a) all bids would be opened in public;
(b) no bidder could be requested or permitted to alter his bid after bid
opening;
(c) the advertising period would be of a sufficient length, but not less
than 30 days, to enable bidders to obtain documents and prepare and
submit responses;
(d) bidders would be required to submit price offers in their bids
instead of a discount on the price established by the Government; and,
(e) goods required for civil works could be obtained from any source
eligible under the Bank's procurement guidelines.
5.24     Computer and Other Equipment.  Contracts for the purchase of
electronic data processing equipment for CNCA's MIS and other equipment valued
at a total of about US$5.0 million would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
5.25     Consultants.  Consultants and training specialists totalling about
15 man-months (US$0.3 million) would be appointed in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
5.26     OtherProcedures. MIS software, computer maintenance, and goods for
training programs (US$0.3 million) would be procured through international or
local shopping involving quotations from at least three suppliers, in
accordance with Bank guidelines. These procedures are appropriate for the
specialized nature of the goods and services involved.
5.27     Reviewof BidDocumentsandContracts.  Bidding packages for CNCA's
works and equipment estimated to cost US$700,000 equivalent or more each would
be subject to the Bank's prior approval. This would represent prior review by
the Bank of about 602 of total contract value, which is acceptable in view of
CNCA past performance on this. The other contracts would be subject to random
post-review by the Bank after contract award. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the above procurement procedures will be followed.
G. Disbursements
5.28     Disbursement Schedule.  The proposed Bank loan of US$190 million
would be disbursed over a period of about four Bank fiscal years. This is
consistent with the historical disbursement profile for agricultural credit



- 35 -
projects in Morocco. A schedule of estimated disbursements under the proposed
Bank loan is summarized below and detailed in Annex 4:
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
Bank Fiscal Year
1990      1991       1992      1993
------------US$ million…----------
Annual                 30.0       60.0      60.0       40.0
Cumulative             30.0       90.0     150.0      190.0
5.29     Disbursement Procedures.  Disbursement categories, loan allocations
and the share of expenditures to be financed would be as follows:
DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES
Amount of the Loan        % of Expenditures to
Category                             Allocated                be Financed
(US$ million)
1. Subloans to small,
medium & large farmers,
enterprises and cooperatives
(a)  Greenhouses              30.0      75% of amounts paid by CNCA
(b)  Other investments        86.0      25% of amounts paid by CNCA
2.  Subloans to agro-processing    15.0       50% of amounts paid by CNCA
and wood-processing
enterprises
3.  Working capital subloans to    20.0       100% of amounts paid by CNCA
exporters
4.  Subloans for Rural Housing       10.0      33% of amounts paid by CNCA
5.  Subloans to fishermen            20.0     20% of amounts paid by CNCA
6. Subloans to artisans and
rural nonfarm enterprises         2.0     25% of amounts paid by CNCA
and young promoters
7.  Computer and other equipment    4.6       100% of total expenditures
for CNCA maintenance and                  (80% for goods procured locally)
software
8.  Consultants and training          1.0      100% of total expenditures
9. Civil works for CNCA's
branch network and offices        1.4     47% of total expenditures
TOTAL            190.0
3849Esc



- 36 -
5.30     Disbursements for computer, equipment and civil works contracts of
US$700,000 or more each would be made against normal documentation prescribed
by the Bank. All other disbursements (for computer, equipment and civil works
contracts of less than US$700,000, and for computer/equipment maintenance,
software, consultants, training costs and subloans in categories 1-6) would be
against certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Full documentation for
SOEs would be retained by CNCA for review by Bank supervision missions and
would be reviewed and checked by the external auditors (para. 6.i5).
Retroactive financing up to US$19 million (10% of loan amount) is recommended
for payments made for eligible expenditures approved by CNCA after October 1,
1988 (signing date is expected by end July 1989). The amount retroactively
financed would permit continuous contracting for subloans, branch network and
office construction and computer equipment purchase so as to fill part of the
financing gap between the Sixth Credit Line and this operation. The loan
closing date is December 31, 1993.
5.31     Bank Approval of CNCA Subloans.  Subloans to agro-processing and
fishery investors of above DH 10 million (about US$1 million) would require
Bank approval before financing.
5.32     The Revolving Fund.  To facilitate the efficient and timely
implementation of the Project, the Bank would deposit, after loan
effectiveness and at CNCA's request, an initial sum of US$15 million (about
four months estimated disbursemevts by CNCA) to set up a revolving fund in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The deposit would be made into a Special
Account at a financial institution and under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
6.01     CNCA will be responsible for the implementation of the Project, and
the Government will provide its full support to CNCA.
A. Credit Operations
Lending Procedures and Terms
6.02     Credit Guidelnes.  Purpose of CNCA subloans, subloan size and terms,
interest and spread, sub-borrower's contribution, collateral, appraisal and
approval methods are detailed in the CNCA Credit Guidelines (para. 4.05),
which are available in the Project file.
6.03     Appraisal of Subloans to Farmers. Fishermen, Artisans and Other Rural
OQpW!t2 .  Investment lending to these categories of clients are
subject to a technico-economic and financial appraisal carried out by CNCA's
field staff under the guidance of CNCA's headquarters. The objective of the
appraisal is to demonstrate that: (a) the proposed investments are sound on
technical, environmental and economic grounds, and are financially viable
based on the subproject's financial plan and cash flow analysis; and (b) the
subloan applicants are creditworthy, and will be able to repay their loans.
As calculations of financial rates of return (FRRs) for all subloans are
impractical, CNCA calculates an FRR for typical subprojects (para. 7.04) in
each principal activity financed. For small-farm loans, separate feasibility
studies are replaced by standardized loan packages for various categories of



- 37 -
investment to speed up approval decisions and disbursement. Regarding small
farmers, improved methods have been partly tested under two Bank-financed
rural development projects, Fes-Karia-Tissa (Ln. 1602-MOR) and Oulmes Rommuani
(Ln. 2217-MOR), and introduced under CNCA VI (Ln. 2731-MOR) in the Provinces
of Meknes and Settat. CNCA is in the process of introducing nationwide these
improved methods of subloan appraisal for investment lending to small farmers,
and would use appropriate methods for subloans to fishermen, artisans and
other rural operators. Details are in working document no. 16.
6.04     Appraisl of Subloans to AMro-Industia Investors.  CNCA will use an
appropriate appraisal methodology for investment decisions to approve its
subloans to agroindustries under the Project. To the criteria previously used
by CNCA, has been receatly added the specific requirement of undertaking an
envuironmental impact assessment for agro-industrial investments proposed for
financing. Also, CNCA plans to use the following additional financial
measurements case-by-case to cross-check internal rate of return (IRR) and net
return on equity (ROI) calculations,I/ and working capital requirements:
(a) current ratio (current assets to current liabilities) of at least
1.3, as computed from the basic financial statements of the last five
years;
(b) long-term debt to equity ratio, after the proposed loan has been
made, preferably not over 2 to 1; and
(c) ratio of cash flow after taxes to long-term debt service of at least
1.3, as estimated from projected cash flow statements on five years.
Cash flow should include net profit after taxes, depreciation, and
annual financial charges on long-term debt; long-term debt service
includes principal and inte-est.
Regarding investments for newly created enterprises the ratio analysis will be
done on the basis of projected financial statements only.
Also, to promote further agro-industrial development under the Project,
assurances were obtained that CNCA would establish by December 31, 1989 within
the two major regional branches of Marrakech and Kenitra a unit of its
agro-industrial Department, with terms of reference, staffing and means
satisfactory to the Bank.
6.05     Lendingfor Rural Housing.  CNCA has been lending for rural housing
as a pilot effort from 1984 to 1987 with uneven success due to extremely tight
terms and conditions for subloans and lengthy application procedures. In
December 1987, CNCA revised its credit guidelines for rural housing on the
basis of the findings of a study on rural housing carried out with the
participation of a representative sample of 1,890 rural families in four
provinces. Because the demand for credit for rural housing has been unmet in
the past, CNCA has started to expand credit in 1988, and to target it more
precisely based on the results of the study. Through its CLCA offices, CNCA
is well placed to service rural clients. From 1989 to 1991 annual lending for
rural housing is estimated at DR 80 million (US$10 million). Since 1986, CNCA
1/ On IRR and ROI a hurdle rate (cut-off rate) will be introduced for
accepting or rejecting investment proposals. CNCA normally requires that
IRR should be about 12% to make a limited risk "accept" decision, but it
does not automatically reject a proposed investment with a 10% IRR if
additional measurements show that the investment is sound.



- 38 -
has employed an engineer and an architect, whose qualifications and experience
are satisfactory to the Bank, to assist in appraising and supervising the
investments. Borrowers for low-cost new houses receive a 4% or 5% rebate from
Government on the current 13% or 12% interest rate charged by CNCA (para.
4.09, Table 4.1), resulting in a net interest rate that is amply positive in
real terms.
6.06     Working Capital Financing for Exporters.  CNCA has not yet adopted
detailed terms and conditions for this component. One option that they are
considering would be as follows. To be eligible for working capital subloans,
beneficiaries would have to submit evidence that the imported inputs to be
financed wili be incorporated in a product for export. Approvals would be
based on firm export orders or contracts. Loans would Lave maturities of less
than 18 months, with most maturities being of about 90 days. The same
eligibility criteria would be applicable throughout the life of the working
capital financing facility. Exporters would repay these loans out of receipts
from export sales. On-lending interest rates would be the prevailing rate at
the time of on-lending. Current rates (about 9% to 10% p.a.) are profitable.
The foreign exchange risk on these subloans would be borne by final
borrowers. It would be a disbursement condition for this component that CNCA
has established on-lending terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for
working capital subloans.
6.07     Disbursement and Supervision of Subloans. Disbursement and supervision
of subloans will be handled by CNCA and its branch network as in previous
projects. CNCA would require selected sub-borrowers to use project fund for
approved purposes. This would be achieved through direct payments to
suppliers, and quarterly or semi-annual visits to subprojects by CNCA's field
staff as may be prescribed by CNCA's headquarters.  Follow-'p reports on each
visit would comment briefly on utilization of subloan funds, compare actual
and planned operations, review clients' management and financial problems,
assess environmental impact where applicable, and make recommendations.
CNCA's headquarters staff would also make selective field visits to problem
operations nationwide to assess their problems and develop solutions.
B. Women's Participation and Eavironmental Aspects
6.08     Women's Participation in Credit Activities.  CNCA lends to women without
prejudice, and employs women on an equal footing with men. However,
traditional family attitudes in some rural areas are still a limiting factor
for women's access to credit. As part of Project preparation CNCA carried out
a study in 1987, financed by USAID, on a CNCA pilot credit operation in the
Province of Khemisset to expand savings and credit for women clients. Study
findings demonstrate that rural savings have been a key factor in improving
women's access to credit. As a result, the Bank prepared a working document
in January 1988 dealing with: (a) the position and role of rural women in the
Moroccan economy; (b) CNCA's pilot project in Khemisset and its replicability;
and (c) operational strategies and actions to attract rural women as borrowers
and savers. The main findings of the report are that:
(a) women in Morocco perform a large part of agricultural, industrial and
services work;



- 39 -
(b) important conditions, besides access to credit, such as markets for
their products and services, access to technology and modern skills,
group organization and networking are influencing the scope of
women's production; and
(c)  women in Morocco are showing a strong interest in credit and savings
facilities despite several constraints of a legal and financial
nature, such as lack of collateral, land ownership, fiscal income and
identity card, and the need for husbands to approve financial
transactions.
To overcome these difficulties, CNCA has assigned a few dedicated and highly
qualified staff to develop its female clientele and to mAake direct contacts
with the target population. The artisanal industries are a particularly
important source of employment and income for women and are well developed in
both rural and urban areas. CNCA is now the only bank in Morocco that has
disaggregated its clientele by sex, and the Khemisset project has been
successful in tripling deposits and savings in the area over a two-year
period. In addition, women receive high marks for loan recoveries. Under the
Project, action to promote rural savings and loan packages for women clients
(para. 5.10) would be made in a few selected potential areas to help develop a
combination of farm and non-farm activities which have shown a promising trend
in Khemisset. Details are given in the Project working document no. 4.
Recently, a rural Primary Education Project has been approved for Bank
financing.
6.09     Environment Alspects.  Some regulations for environmental
protection exist in Morocco and provide for a certain degree of protection of
the environment. The Moroccan authorities are also fully aware of the recent
Environmental Program for the Mediterranean, and understand the need to
promote environmental policies. Government, however, despite its enthusiasm
for environmental considerations, does not yet have the institutional capacity
to catalogue, prioritize, and solve the environmental problems facing Morocco,
from locust invasion and desertification to industrial and urban pollution.
Under the Project, CNCA would pay special attention in its subloan appraisal
to assessing the impact of agricultural/agro-processing pollution and forestry
degradation for the proposed investments that are likely to raise major
environmental issues. In Morocco, in particular since 1988, it is current
practice that agricultural products destined for export are subject to EEC
quality standards. No pesticides would be purchased under the proposed Loan
and CNCA advises farmers to use only those chemicals considered safe under
present conditions. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from CNCA
that staff in the agro-processing units of its regional branches are trained
in properly evaluating the environmental impact statements submitted as part
of the subloan documenta.ion when applicable. The Government plans to move
also forward on environmental issues (e.g., forestry and fisheries).
C. CNCA Institutional Development
6.10    Improvement of CNCA's Organizational Structure, Planning Process and MIS.
A comprehensive set of actions and measures have been taken and others would
be taken under the Project to ease CNCA's institutional transition (para.
5.12):



- 40 -
(a) Organizationdl Structure and Staffing. In 1987/88, under the leadership
of its new CEO, CNCA sought to build a cohesive senior management
team and to develop the procedures necessary to manage needed
institutional changes. This was done without staff reorganization
and without freezing recruitment, which has minimized disruption of
the institution. The approach is sound provided that the state of
uncertainty generated by a change of leadership is relatively brief.
It is essential that CNCA fully define key job responsibilities and
clarify its organizational structure at both headquarters and branch
network levels by end 1989. Also, improved terms and conditions of
employment and career development are key features for revitalizing
CNCA, improving staff morale, and increasing staff productivity. To
be able to compete with commercial banks, CNCA should be able to
retain its best managers and be in a position to hire highly
competent new staff when needed. The cost involved in higher
paychecks has been incorporated in CNCA financial projections for
1988-1992 and its impact evaluated. Recently, CNCA established a
satisfactory personnel manual designed to retain top staff, and an
acceptable target organization plan. Assurances were obtained that
the target organization plan would be implemented under the Project.
(b) CNCA's Transition and Financial Viability. As a result of its
conversion into a full-service bank with Lcreased managerial
autonomy, CNCA needs to pay particular attention to its financial
viability trends, both during the transition period (1988-1992) and
in the longer term (1993-2000).. Detailed financial projections were
made up to 1992 (Annex 7) and indicative projections beyond that. To
protect CNCA's financial peiEormance and viability, the following
assurances were obtained at negotiations: before June 30 in each
fiscal year (i) CNCA to review the adequacy of its interest rates
and/or fees on all its loans, and take appropriate measures to ensure
that the weighted average of interest rates on CNCA's loans is
positive in real terms, i.e., at least equal to the rate of inflation
as measured by the annual producer price index published by the BAM;
(ii) CNCA annual net profits to be sufficient to protect the value of
CNCA's equity from inflationary erosion by assuring a minimum annual
return on equity (after tax if Any) at least equal to the inflation
rate; and (iii) CNCA to ensure that its CLCA branch offices maintain
separate cost accounts and ccntinue to produce, globally each year,
total revenues that cover the CLCAs' total operating cost and debt
service requirements. In addition, to assist CNCA in maintaining a
prudent overall financial structure and liquidity position,
assurances were obtained that (iv) CNCA's capital adequacy as
measured by the ratio of equity to risk assets remains at or above
the 81 international standard1' for commercial bank capitalization
(para. 4.17); (v) CNCA maintains a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities.2 of not less than 1.2 to 1; (vi) CNCA does not incur
any debt, if the ratio of debt (over 18 months) to equity-1' exceeds
1/ In 1987, CNCA's equity to risk assets ratio was 12.4%
2/ In 1987, CNCA's current ratio was 0.89, but would be 1.80 after adjustment
of Government receivables.
3/ In 1987, Debt/Equity ratio was 6.25. CNCA VI required a 8 to 1 ratio



- 41 -
10 to 1. CNCA's financial indicators for 1988-92 (para. 7.09,
table 7.4) show that this ratio would be at about 8 to 1 by end 1991,
and that a substantial increase in debt would be required in 1992 to
maintain equilibrium. A ratio greater than 10 to 1 should be
perceived as a signal for CNCA and the Government to take steps to
increase autogeneration of equity, inject additional equity, and/or
increase domestic deposits above currently planned levels to reduce
the need for long-term debt; and (vii) CNCA ensures that the total
principal outstanding of all financing it provides to any single
borrower does not exceed 201 of CNCA's equity.
(c) Strategic and Operational *Pnning. CNCA has demonstrated good
operational and financial performance iD the last few years.
However, it lacks some of the managerial tools characteristic of a
rapidly growing and dynamic institution. Now that its CEO has been
given a mandate to run CNCA like an autonomous held enterprise, while
maintaining substantial structural support from the Government, a new
sound management process can be put in plece: redefinition of
strategic objectives, development of an appropriate planning and
budgeting process, improvement of management systems and practices,
and quick-fixes to the existing system to improve the management of
change and to minimize reactive organizational change and structural
adjustments. Since January 1987, however, the impact of the change
in management on CNCA as a whole has been positive or, motivation and
atmosphere. Under the Project, CNCA would make operational, by June
30, 1990, a Planning Unit/Department, which will be responsible for
the following: (i) articulating corporate objectives developed by
Executive Management; (ii) making sure that the operational
Departments and Divisions are committed to achieving planned results;
(iii) ensuring that plan requirements are met; (iv) managing the
review process; and (v) developing balance sheet and earning
forecasts and coordinating contingency planning. Detailed terms of
reference for the Planning Department are in working Documenta no. 8
and 9, and summarized in Annex 11.
Cd) MLS. Accounting and EDP Systems. CNCA' s present management
information system is not fully adequate to provide prompt feedback
on operations. It is mainly based on manual bookkeeping operations
at brauch office level, which generate errors, require multiple
controls, and entail delays in operations and in the flow of
information to Headquarters. Under CNCA V and VI, CNCA management
started to overhaul the entire management information system. This
effort met with limited success, due in part to the inability of
ONCA's former management to give top priority to decentralizing
CNCA's operations and MIS. At regional branch level, however, a
pilot MIS/EDP operation was put in place in Rabat with a certain
degree of efficiency and success. Some technical staff were well
trained in how to handle a computerized branch office. This new
capacity has set the stage for potential replicability nationwide.
During project appraisal, CNCA was able, with help from a consultant,
to prepare an action plan for the automation of its branch network.
CNCA's major regional offices (CRCAs) are the primary candidates for
management improvements through automation. At Headquarters level,
the current management of CNCA has inherited an EDP system that
conformed to the simple processing needs of a Government
Administration, but that does not meet the informational requirements



- 42 -
of an actively managed financial institution. Under the Project,
CNCA would take further action (working Document No. 1) to upgrade
its data processing capability. Its current capacity is fully
utilized. With a potential client base of some 1.5 million, even
minor modifications to the chart of accounts or to the information
content of subledgers would result in major increases in disk storage
requirements and in increased access time. CNCA is well aware of the
deficiencies in its present accounting and information system, and of
the magnitude of the task facing it to get a sound MIS so that its
activities and new products can become fully competitive on a basis
of quality of service and operating cost. To speed up the
installation at CNCA of a complete and sound MIS and EDP system, CNCA
plans to purchase a good software package, custom-tailored to its
future needs, to be supplied by a reputable vendor who has a track
record of effective technical support. CNCA should not attempt, as
in the past, to develop internally (with or without help from
consultants), a MIS that conforms to existing procedures. The time
already taken and that would be taken to develop an adequate system
interrimlly may leave CNCA vulnerable at a critical time in its
development. CNCA management cannot afford to dissipate its scarce
resources for this huge task, which would continue to lead to
excessive delay in implementation or to the risk of failure of the
automation project. CNCA practical experience in EDP should be used
for managing the installation in its new headquarters building of a
purchased MIS/EDP system. Software selection should come first, with
the hardware purchased to accommodate the needs of the software and
not vice-versa. Improvement of the accounting system and operating
procedures, reorientation of internal audit and establishment of a
management control system are all essential to be installed as part
of the MIS if a strong CNCA is to be fully operational by December
1992.
(e) New Bankig Services/Products and Diversification of Activities. Since
1988, Government has authorized CNCA to compete with the commercial
banks for non-agricultural lending under the same terms and
conditions as those applied by commercial banks. This is an
important step in transforming CNCA into a full-service bank. In
addition to loans, CNCA already offers deposit products in the form
of checking accounts, savings accounts (super carnets verts),
fixed-term deposits, money transfers, cashing of cheques and
commercial bills, payment orders, addressing services, foreign
exchange and documentary credits. The attractiveness of deposit
products, however, is limited because CNCA has so far been operated
in many respects like an agricultural lending bank rather than a
full-service commercial bank. Since developing a stable domestic
currency deposit base is essential if CNCA is to reduce its
dependency on term debt, development of a cohesive deposit generation
policy forms an integral part of the comprehensive business plan that
CNCA would develop under the Project. Marketing efforts are being
undertaken to reposition CNCA as a bank that specializes in rural
finance as opposed to the past image of a Government-sponsored farm
credit disbursement and collection agency. A CNCA diversification
effort is therefore desirable and fully justified, on condition that
it leads CNCA towards well-defined banking functions according to
well-established priorities. CNCA's diversification mission includes
activities that support rural economic development, but it should not



- 43 -
be interpreted to include direct involvement in activities such as
rural electrification or a raw-material and crop-distribution
network. Since such direct involvement would stretch CNCA's
financial and management resources too thinly and could impair its
effectiveness as a provider of financial services, CNCA should resist
being involved in too many non-banking functions. During Project
implementation, the Bank would carefully monitor the institutianal
strengthening undertaken by CNCA to introduce the tools and
techniques needed to carry out its expanded role, and to improve the
operational and control bases of current and anticipated activities.
CNCA projected lending for 1939-1991 (Annex 1, Table 2) shows that
CNCA would take a cautious path in its diversification program, with
90% of short-term credit and 79% cf medium- and long-term lending
being exclusively targeted to agriculture during this period.
6.11     Project-Related Trang.  CNCA will -' responsible for
project-related training and would use its own facilities and/or any other
appropriate facilities that would be necessary to hold seminars in Rabat or in
other cities of the country. CNCA will also draw from its qualified trainers,
and from its experience in organizing training courses. As part of its
proposed staff development program, CNCA would also organize relevant training
programs overseas for its most qualified staff and trainers, or would enter
into a twinning arrangement with a similar but more mature agricultural credit
bank in another country. CNCA's pluri-annual training plan and the 1989
program are acceptable to the Bank. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that CNCA would prepare by October 31 of each year an annual training program
for the following year acceptable to the Bank.
6.12     Refurbishing/Modernization and Constiction of Branch Network and Off 'ces.
During Project implementation, CNCA will continue the construction/modernization
program of its offices and branch network, which has been initiated under two
previous projects (Loans 2367-MOR and 2731-MOR). CNCA has updated its
construction and rehabilitation program for the Project period with phasing of
activities and estimated costs (Annex 3). The new major branch offices would
be constructed and equipped in such a manner as to permit the development of
new banking activities, particularly the collection of deposits and the use of
checking accounts. To supervise construction and procurement activities for
branch offices, CNCA is now employing on its staff a qualified and experienced
architect and civil engineer. Their responsibilities include: (a) monitoring
the coistruction of CNCA's Headquarters Office; (b) setting up a detailed
program of requirements for each regional office (space for archives,
reserves, etc); (c) reviewing the designs and specifications of each building;
(d) supervising construction activity and the activities of newly appointed
staff; (e) reviewing construction contracts; and (f) controlling costs to
assure optimum cost efficiency construction standards. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that CNCA would furnish to the Bank by October 31 of
each year an annual construction program for the following year, satisfactory
to the Bank, and that CNCA would carry out that program.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
6.13     The monitoring and evaluation system established by CNCA in 1984 has
been improved. Under the new system CNCA will be able to pay closer attention
to sub-borrowers' recovery performance. Also, monitoring will become an
integral part of the day-to-day operational management of CNCA's credit



- 44 -
activities at headquarters and branch levels. CNCA's monitoring and
evaluation unit at headquarters will collect and consolidate the data on
commitments and disbursements under subloans, physical achievements under
selected subprojects, operational results of representative investment
operations, and recovery performance. In turn, these data and the
corresponding evaluation reports will enable CNCA to take actions to remedy
project implementation constraints, and to upgrade subloan appraisal,
delivery, supervision and repayment.
6.14     Reporting.  CNCA will provide to the Bank:  (a) semi-annual
progress reiortet within three months of the end of each semester; these will
include commitments, disbursements, subloan maturities and actual collections
by category of beneficiaries, CNCA's financial statements, changes in lending
policies and procedures, and progress being achieved in the implementation of
the institution building activities; and (b) an annual evaluation report,
within three months of the end of each calendar year. In addition, CNCA will
prepare a Project completion report to be submitted to the Bank within three
months of the closing date of the Loan.
E. Accounts and Audit
6.15     CNCA has a relatively reliable accounting system involving:  (a) a
certralized accounting.system; (b) an internal audit unit; (c) a stable and
qualified workforce ir. terms of key financial staff; (d) separation of
incompatible tasks; (e) defined procedures; (f) timeliness in producing annual
financial statements of satisfactory quality; and (g) few external audit
adjustments. During Project implementation, CNCA will further improve and
modernize its system by:  (a) implementing a new chart of accountsi/
incorporating improved standards for bank accounting; and (b) developing
decentralized MIS and EDP applications, in particular for detailed cost
accounting purposes at branch level. In the past, CNCA accounts and financial
statements have been audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank. This practice would continue under the Project. CNCA will send to
the Bank, within six months of the close of each fiscal yeati, a full audit
report. This will incorporate in one document with the auditors' opinions:
(a) a management letter; and (b) a long-form report on CNCA's overall
financial statements and project accounts with four specific auditors'
opinions on (i) CNCA accounts, (ii) project accounts, (iii) Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs), and (iv) the revolving fund (Special Account). CNCA will
send to the Bank audit reports of adequate standards. Report contents will be
discussed with CNCA and the auditors during Bank supervision missions.
1/ Plan comptable bancaire



- 45 -
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RLSKS
A. Benefits and Justification
7.01     The proposed Project would help achieve a vital transition in CNCA's
institutional development by converting CNCA into a universal and full-service
bank. This change would improve Morocco's institutional capabilities to
promote private sector investment and growth in the rural sector. Through
provision of investment credit to private farmers and other operators, the
Project would also contribute to increased production, exports, and rural
employment while reducing pressure for public investment. This in turn would
impact favorably on Morocco's economic and social goals.
Financi  ITpact on Beneficiaries
7.02     To quantify the returns to sub-borrowers under the Project, five farm
models and two coastal fisheries investments were chosen to represent the
range of typical investments'' that would be made. The investment models
are based on the best estimates of CNCA staff who specialize in reviewing the
technical parameters of potential investors. The information on input levels,
farming techniques, yields, fishing techniques and fish catches are based on
the results of a CNCA survey of actual farms in representative regions and of
active private fishermen and fishing port authorities along the Moroccan
coast. Data on farms have been updated from a survey covering the 1982-85
period. The survey on fisheries was carried out in 1987-88. Estimates
discussed below (details are in working document no. 19) should be considered
as illustrative only. In practice, many combinations of these model
investments exist. The results are given in Tab'.e 7.1.
Table 7.1: IMPACT ON FARMERS' AND INVESTORS' INCOMES
Farm     Net Income   Net Imcome    Incremental
Investment Models                Size       without         with           Net
(ha)    Project (DH) Project (DH)   Income (DH)
1.  Irrigation Equipment          8          10,100         30,400        20,300
2.  Sheep and Stable              8          11,600 /a      19,000 /a      7,400
3.  Dairy Cattle and Stable      10           2,800 /b      62,700 /b    59,900
4.  Tractor and Implements       40          73,000        102,000 /c    62,700 /c
5.  Combine Harvester           200         303,914        435,595 /c   131,681 /c
6. Sardine/Tuna Fishing
Boat/Trawler (375 hp)       -               -        666,801      666,801
7.  Sardine Fishing Boat (300 hp) -               -        831,884      831,884
/a  Excluding income from crops, which is estimated at about DH 8,200 p.a.
/b Excluding other income from farming activities, estimated at DH 25,000.
This large increase is due mainly to the fact that without the project
situation has limited dairy activity with local cattle only.
/c Including income from renting tractor and combine harvester.
1/ CNCA will appraise its agro-industrial investments on a case-by-case basis
according to the appropriate methodology described para. 6.04.



- 46 -
7.03     The effect on farmers' and investors' incomes would be substantial at
full development. Incomes are estimated to increase by about 40% to 60% for
investors in farm machinery to several fold for investors in pure bred dairy
cattle, measured in 1987 constant prices. Incremental income is expected
from: (a) more intensive cultivation and reduced fallow in the case of
irrigation equipment; (b) increased yields in the case of all farm models; (c)
switching to higher value crops (irrigation equiment); and (d) upgrading the
quality and yield of the livestock through purchase of pure bred or improved
cattle and sheep and better animal feed and health. In the case of new
tractor and combine harvester owners, additional income would be experienced
either by reducing operating costs because of higher productivity of the new
farm equipment, or by doing contract work for others. In the case of the
fisheries, returns would come from investment in fishing boat and equipment
modernization to enable fishermen to develop their fishing operations.
7.04     The financial rates of return, along with sensitivity analysis, are
in Table 7.2.
Table 7.2: FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN ON SELECTED INVESTMENT MODELS
FRR to             Sensitivity
Investment Models               Total       Benefits      Operating
Resources   Down 10      Costs up 10%
1.  Irrigation Equipment           50.4        37.3            42.3
2.  Sheep and Stable                24.2       17.9            18.8
3.  Dairy Cattle and Stable        53.5        44.1            48.7
4. Tractor and Implements           15.1       10.5             8.1
5.  Combine Harvester               38.5       31.7            37.9
6.  Sardine/Tuna Fishing Boat       25.6       12.6            16.4
7.  Sardine Fishing Boat           32.5        18.1            12.2
These financial rates of return (FRR) indicate that the incentives to invest
are adequate, although the rates of return are quite sensitive to assumptions
on costs and benefits. Nevertheless, the return to dairy cattle is
particularly attractive and investment in these animals has historically
reflected this by the demand for credit for this purpose. The popularity of
other types of investment also reflects their high returns, except for
irrigation equipment, which is limited to farmers with proper land holdings to
make full use of the irrigation. For tractors and combine harvesters, it is
important that the owner rent out the spare capacity of the equipment to other
farmers to make full use of the investment, while for fishing investment, the
granting of credit will be targeted to coastal fishermen who have a
demonstrated record of fishing performance and creditworthiness.
Economic Analysis
7.05     An economic rate of return (ERR) has also been calculated for each
typical investment modeL. The results have not been aggregated into an
overall ERR for the Project as a whole, because the distribution of loans
among these types of investment or among variations of the models will depend



- 47 -
on changing relative prices, attractiveness of alternative investments, land
use, and market forces.
7.06     Benefits include all incremental production of crops, milk, meat and
wool as a result of increased yields and increased cropping intensity. Costs
include all capital costs, incremental working capital requirements and
incremental operating costs. All taxes and subsidies have been excluded.
Economic prices for traded inputs and outputs have been derived from the
Bank's commodity price projections and adjusted for transport and handling to
and from Morocco and, where appropriate, processing in Morocco. Prices for
non-traded inputs and outputs have been taken from market prices and adjusted
by the appropriate conversion factor. The calculations and summaries of the
economic and financial prices and conversion factors are in the Project File.
The results of the economic analysis are summarized in Table 7.3.
Table 7.3: SUMMARY OF ERRS ON SELECTED INVESTMENT MODELS
Switching Values /a
Investment Models                ERR    FRR      Investment   Operating
Costs         Costs   Benefits
X ----    Change -_-
1.  Irrigation Equipment         42.6   50.4       +103.5        + 28.5       -18.4
2.  Sheep and Stable             14.0   24.2       + 10.8        +  4.5       - 3.1
3. ~Dairy Cattle and Stable       50.0   53.5       +268.1       +123.2       -45.8
4.  Tractor and Implements        17.5   15.1       + 12.5       + 53.8       - 9.0
5. -Combine Harvester            44.5   38.5       + 15.0        + 59.1       -12.0
6.  Sardine/Tuna Fishing Boat   26.0   25.6        + 10.2        + 40.7       -11.2
7.  Sardine Fishing Boat         33.0   32.5       + 10.7        + 38.7       -10.5
/a At an opportunity cost of capital of 12%.
-7.07    The differences between the ERRs ad FRRs shown in Table 7.3 are the
result mainly of Government price intervention, subsidies and taxes. Where
the FRR is greater than the ERR, as it is for irrigation equipment and
livestock for example, Government is subsidizing the farmer through the
program of investment and input subsidies. Where the ERR is greater than the
FRR, as it is in the case of combine harvester, tractor and implements, price
interventions introduce net distortions against the investment. Although the
purchase price of the equipment and fertilizers are currently subsidized, in
the case of the farm machinery models, the economic prices of the output are
higher than their financial prices by a sufficient amount to offset the
subsidies, and this causes the ERR to exceed the FRR.
7.08     Within the overall framework of the MTSAP (para. 2.07) the Government
plans to correct its direct intervention in agricultural pricing and
incentives (para. 2.15). As a consequence, many of the existing distortions
in input and output prices will be removed by 1991, when the benefits of this
Project will be approaching full development. Thus the main causes of the
remaining differences can be traced to the high cost of the fuel, which is in
financial terLs much higher than that of the projected economic export parity



- 48 -
price, and which affects the operating costs of irrigation equipment, fishing
boats, and farm machinery, and to a lesser extent, to the overall conversion
factor applied to fish, fresh fruits and vegetables.
Financial Impact on CNCA
7.09     Projected financial statements for 1988-1992 are given in Annex 7,
Tables 5 to 8. Projections have been adjusted to incorporate the change in
accounting period during 1987 from August 31 to December 31, 1987.   This
change has a major impact on balance sheet projections due to the highly
seasonal nature of agricultural credit. Key ratios reflecting CNCA's
projected financial condition are presented in Table 7.4:
Table 7.4: CNCA'S PROJECTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS 1988-1992
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Total Debt-to Equity (Leverage)                12.1   12.6   13.0   13.4    12.6
Net Return on Equity X                          9.7    5.3   10.2   15.5    17.2
Equity to Risk Assets /a (Capital Adequacy)  10.7    9.7    8.9    8.5         8.3
Current Assets/Current Liabilities              6.1    6.5    7.6    7.8       7.0
LT Debt to Equity                               8.1    8.3    8.2    8.5       6.8
Provisions as X of Risk Assets                  6.1    6.4    6.5    6.7       6.7
Growth Deposits /b X                           19.0   32.5   36.8   35.0    35.0
Growth Loans X                                 15.0   16.0   21.6   24.0    24.0
Growth Total Assets %                          13.0   10.1   14.9   21.8    13.6
Growth Equity X                                14.5    3.0    3.1    7.1       8.6
/a  International standard is at least 8% for commercial bank capitalization.
ln Include remittances from Moroccan workers abroad.
The table shows that CNCA is expected to maintain its underlying financial
health and earnings capacity as long as Government dues do not accumulate, and
on condition that there is no major change in foreseen domestic inflation
rates, real interest rates or foreign exchange rates. Another key assumption
is that, as in the past, no taxes on profit would be levied. In fact, the
project model shows a conflict between payment of income taxes and sound
growth for CNCA. While capital adequacy would remain above the 82 of risk
assets that is generally being adopted as the international standard for
commercial bank capitalization, the trend line could be worrisome if CNCA's
profits are not re-injected into free reserves to improve its capital base.
Government has the choice between (i) foregoing income taxes on CNCA's
profits, or (ii) re-injecting tax revenue in the form of new equity. Any
other option could force a reduction in CNCA's support for rural finance.
Under the Project, financial covenants have been proposed to maintain CNCA's
financial soundness (para. 6.10 (b)). Regarding return on equity, performance
would dip sharply in 1989--consistent with an institution undergoing major
internal change-then rise progressively through 1992. Liquidity, defined as
current assets divided by current liabilities, is expected to stay at a
satisfactory 1.5 in 1989 and 1.3 in 1990 and 1991 before dropping to about 1.0
with the exhaustion in 1992 of available long-term funding. In terms of
growth, CNCA would amply benefit from the support of the international



- 49 -
financial community, and CNCA financial improvements would stem from the
combined results of: (a) sharper increases in interest incomes than in
interest expenses; (b) improved quality of portfolio (collections and adequate
provisions); and (c) sharper increases in deposits after 1988 (35% p.a. in
current terms in 1991 and 1992) than in new loan commitments (24% p.a.). This
projected growth of deposits is achievable because (i) the growth of total
deposits in Moroccan banks is about 40% p.a. in average; (ii) CNCA's market
share in 1988 was only 3% of the total deposit market, and (iii) CNCA is now
authorized to compete with other banks to raise off-shore deposits. For CNCA
to implement the Project is therefore financially justified. CNCA's financial
indicators, in particular the debt to equity ratio (para. 6.lO(b)(vi)) will
have to be closely monitored during Project implementation to prevent or
correct any deteriorating trends.
Financial Implications for Government
7.10     The impact of the Project on the Government's finances would come
from: (a) capital subsidies paid to CNCA to finance 3% of the cost of
selected on-farm investments by small farmers in accordance with the
Agricultural Investment Code (Annex 8); (b) interest rebates on social rural
housing loans; (c) taxes and duties on imports, farm assets, fishing boats and
agro-processing equipment; and (d) part of the exchange risk losses if any
(para. 5.20). Investment subsidies under the Project are estimated to equal
US$12.4 million and are expected to be partly financed out of an EEC grant to
the Agricultural Development Fund (FDA). Interest rebates on social housing
in rural areas are estimated at US$0.3 million p.a. during three years.
Import duties and other taxes are estimated to amount to about US$i79 million
equivalent, or about 122 of the total Project cost. Any potential exchange
risk losses under the Project would be widely covered by the indirect
contribution of agricultural credit to the export revenues of Morocco on
agricultural and food products, which represented about US$900 million and 31%
of total exports in 1987. The Project, which is also encouraging exports, is
expected therefore to have a highly positive impact on the Government's
finances, and it fully justifies foregoing income taxes on CNCA profits as in
the past two decades.
B. Proiect Risks
7.11     The major risk in this Project has been identified and discussed in
previous credit projects, not only in Morocco but in other countries as well.
It is the threat of severe drought and/or sustained drought conditions such as
those Morocco has experienced these past years, in 1980/81 and 1983/84 in
particular. Adverse weather conditions translate into decreased yields and
livestock output, reduced demand for agricultural investments and services,
reduced production of raw materials for processing or conditioning, lower farm
incomes, and reduced ability to repay loans. The farm models have accounted
for these droughts, which seem to occur every five years or so. Droughts
create problems in credit recoveries and might warrant writing off arrears or
rescheduling farmers' debts. On the basis of past and current experience this
risk has not adversely affected CNCA, partly because of CNCA's prudent lending
policies, collection methods, prcvisions for bad debts and the support of the
international donor commiunity. For example, USAID and EEC provided CNCA with
financial assistance at concessionary terms in 1983/84 to cushion the effect
of the drought with the injection of fresh cash (US$13.5 million and an
equivalent US$29 million, respectively). This has allowed CNCA to roll over



- 50 -
ti,e short-term debt into a medium-term rescheduled repayment for those farmers
most affected by the drought (in certain geographic areas). For the future,
CNCA and the Government envisage the creation of a National Guarantee Fund
that will cover part of the principal of unpaid subloans granted at CNCA's
risk to small and medium operators in rainfed areas in cases where it is clear
that natural calamities are a dominant factor in the formation of existing
arrears. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would
prepare a study, by June 30, 1990, with a view to establishing a National
Guarantee Fund during Project Implementation. Terms of raference are provided
in Annex 13.
7.12     Another important risk in this Project is associated with the length
and difficulty of the ongoing institutional reform process at CNCA because of
Government past reluctance to increase CNCA's managerial autonomy; since the
Government of Morocco reemphasized, in 1987, the role of CNCA in the
development of the country's rural sector and the need to transform CNCA into
a universal, full-service bank, CNCA now has the highest political support for
these reforms so that this risk is now reduced, but it is important that the
quality and continuity in top management of CNCA, be maintained.
V-I. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01     CNCA has:
(a) provided a policy statement acceptable to the Bank redefining CNCA's
medium-term development objectives (paras. 4.01 and 4.23), and the
Government endorsed it; and
(b) established satisfactory terms and conditions of employment
appropriate to retain top staff (paras. 4.04 and 6.10(a)), a
satisfactory target organization plan (para. 6.10(a)); and a
satisfactory training program for 1989 which is part of a
pluri-annual training plan that is acceptable to the Bank
(para. 6.11).
8.02     Agreement was reached during negotiations on the following:
(a) CNCA would maintain policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
for loan loss provisioning (para. 4.20);
(b) CNCA would establish by December 31, 1989 within the two major
regional branches of Marrakech and Kenitra a unit of its
agro-industrial Department, with terms of reference, staffing and
means satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.04); these staff would be
also trained in evaluating environmental impact statements of
investments when applicable (para. 6.09);
(c) CNCA would maintain its prudent overall financial policy and
performance by maintaining minimum standards of capital adequacy,
liquidity, profitability, and level of debt as measured by
appropriate financial ratios (paras. 4.09 and 6.10(b));



- 51 -
(d) CNCA would obtain Bank approval for bidding packages for CNCA's works
and equipment, of US$700,000 equivalent or above and for individual
subloans to agro-processing and fishery investors of above DH 10
million (US$1.25 million equivalent) (paras. 5.27 and 5.31);
(e) CNCA would review before June 30 in each fiscal year, interest rates
and/or fees on all its loans and take the appropriate measures to
achieve the following objectives: (i) the weighted average of
interest rates on its loans to be positive in real terms, i.e., at
least equal to the inflation rate as measured by the
Bank-Al-Maghrib's producer price index; and (ii) annual net profits
to be sufficient to protect the value of CNCA's equity from
inflationary erosion by assuring a minimum annual return on equity
(after tax if any) at least equal to the inflation rate (para.
6.10(b)(ii));
(f) CNCA would take satisfactory actions during project implementation
to: (i) improve its organization, MIS and accounting; (ii) introduce
and implement better planning; and (iii) develop new competitive
banking services and products for its diversified clientele
(para. 6.10);
(g) CNCA would furnish to the Bank by October 31 of each year an annual
construction program for the following year, satisfactory to the
Bank, and CNCA would carry out this program (para. 6.12);
(h)  Government would enable CNCA to set interest rates consistent with
obligations to be entered into by CNCA under (c) and (e) above;
(i) Government would prepare a study, by June 30, 1990, with a view to
establishing during Project Implementation, a National Guarantee Fund
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank to cover the risk
of unpaid subloans in rainfed areas in case of calamities (para.
7.11);
(j) fulfillment by CNCA of conditions of effectiveness of all
cofinanciers'loans by June 30, 1990 (para. 5.19).
8.03     The submission to the Bank of the terms and conditions, satisfactory
to the Bank under which working capital subloans for exporters shall be rnade
would be a condition of disbursement of the working capital component
(paras. 5.08 and 6.06).
8.04     In view of the above agreements, the Project is suitable for a loan
to CNCA, with the Guarantee of the Kingdom of Morocco, for US$190 million
equivalent with a term of 20 years, including a five-year grace period. The
Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.



-52-                                      ANNEX I
Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CNCA Actual Lending 1983-1987
1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    198S/86    1986/87    1986/87
… ------------------- (DH '000) -------
1.  SHORT-TERM LU'DING                                                                               (57)
Crop Production                602,149    543.884       697.855  1.067.572  1,260.750         68
Livestock Production           254,101    316.222       417.948    468,491    566.925         31
Other                            12.917     21,104       22,763      29,474     23,055         1
TOTAL SHORT-TERM               869.1i7    881if10 l    38.56a  1.565.537  18.0,5730          1QQ
of which CLCAs                96.200    108.400       159.400    256.100    286.100
2.  MEDIUM- AND LONG-TERM LENDING                                                                    (43)
Construction                    81,750      91,108      134,608    149,579    144,286          9
Rural Housing                         -           -      59.999      47,965      16,094        1
Equipment /a                   329,192    260.987       358,196    418,795    352.522         26
Livestock                      377.587    453,289       884,206    816.101    757,213         55
Agro-Industries                  24,988     30,405       48,861      63,103     43.825         3
Others                           58,333     10.585       13.596      26.915     64,836         6
TOTAL MEDIUM/LONG-TERM         072.450    8L46374   1.499.466  1.52.2458  1.378.776 /1   100
of which CLCAs               396.700    365.800       678,100    723,600    659,100
3.  TOTAL LENDING                    1,741617  1.727.584   2.638.032  L3087,99S  3,229506           (100)
of which CLCAs                  403.900    474.200       837,500    979,700    945,100         29
/A  Includes tractors, harvestors. irrigation equipment, implements, transport and electrical
equipment, wells and pumps, greenhouses.
1k About OH 1.600 million for period January-December 1987.
3866E-14sc



- 53 -                                   ANNEX 1
Table 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MQROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CNCA Projected Lendina 1n88-1991
Estimates  --------- Projections -----------        Total Period
I= 98      1. 91                                 1989   -  1991
------------------ (bHI'00) ----------------    (DH'000)    %
1.  SHORT-TERM LENDING                                                                            (50)
Agriculture                2,000.000   2,400.000  2,700.000    3,000,000   8,100,000    90
-  Crop Production         1,357.669   1,626.955  1,826,691    2.023.903   5.477.549    61
-  Livestock Production    642,331       773,045    873.309        976.097   2,622.451    29
Agro-Industries                  25,000       37,000      53,000        77.000      167,000     2
Fisheries                        25,000       75.000    125,G00        200,000     400,000      4
Artisanal and other              70,000       88,000    109,000        136,000      333.000     4
Rural Activities
TOTAL SHORT-TERM           2.120L00    2.600.000  2.987.000    3.413.000   9.000.000   100
2.  MEDIUM- AND LONG-TERH LENDING                                                                  (50)
Agriculture                1,265,000   1.542,000  2,266.000    3.037,000   6,845,000    79
-  Construction              150.000      210,639    309.534       435,329      955,502    11
!  -  Equipment /a              525.000      742,195  1,011,111    1,344,044   3,097.350    36
Livestock                490,000      439.166    645,355        907,627   1,992,148    23
_  Land Consolidation        100,000      150.000    300,000        350,000     800,000      9
Rural Housing                 15,000       50.000      70,000       130,000     250,000      3
Agro-Industries /b            40.000      100,000    141,000        239.000     480,000      6
Fisheries                    250,000      280,000    295.000        305,000     880,000    10
Artisanal /, and other
Rural Activities            30.000       38,000      47,000        58,000     143,000      2
TOTAL MEDIUM/LONG-TERM    ,L600.000   2.010.000  2.819.000    3Z769.000   8L598. 000   100
3.  TOTAL LENDING                 3.Z07.000   4.610.000  5.806.000    7.18Z.000  17J.98.000  (100)
4.  Total Growth (% p. a.)                15           24          25            24          24 /4  -
/A  Includes greenhouse equipment
Ak  Includes working capital financing for agro-processing exporters
/I  Mainly women's activities
/f  or 16% in real terms, using an average GOP deflator of 5%
3866E-13sc



- 54 -                        ANNEX 1
Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Indicative Project Lending Program
(Medium and Long-Term Credit and Working Capital for Exporters)
Average Unit Cost     No. of   Million   Million    %
of Investment    Sub-Projects   (DH)       US$    Total
(DH)                                          Cost
1.  Small Farmers                7,340        450,000    3,304 /a    413       27
2.  Medium/Large Farmers        66,700         80,000    5,336        667      44
3. Agro-Industries           2,800,000             123      344        43       3
4.  Rural Housing              137,600           2,500      344        43       3
5.  Working Capital              (Short-Term Loans)         240         30      2
for Exporters
6.  Coastal Fisheries        1,800,000             700    1,256 /a    157      10
7. Artisans and Rural           26,000          8,000       208        26       2
Non-Farm Enterprises
8.  Land Consolidation          10,000         114,400    1,144       143       9
9.  Total Cost                                           12,176     1,522    100
less:
Sub-borrowers Contribution                            3,484.8     435.6
Agricultural Development Fund (FDA)                      99.2       12.4
10. Total Credit Program                                  8,592     1,074.0
/a Discrepancies due to rounding.
3866E-48C



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
K.INGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financing of On-Farm Investments
1989        1990        1991       Total
-------------- (DH'OOO)  …_________
1.  CNCA Loans                         1,542,000  2,266,000 3,037,000  6,845,000
Construction                     210,639    309,534   435,329    955,502
Land Improvement                  53,970      79,309   111,540    244,819
Irrigation Equipment             122,436    179,920   253,039    555,395
Farm Machinery                   438,418    564,710   716,226  1,719,354
Greenhouses                      127,371    187,172   263,239    577,782
Draft Animals                    121,049    177,882   250,173    549,104
Livestock                        318,117    467,473   657,454  1,443,044
Land Consolidation /a            150,000    300,000   350,000    800,000
2.  Sub-borrowers Equity                 661,500    971,900 1,302,600  2,936,000 /b
3.  Total Investments                 2,203,500  3,237,900 4,339,600  9,781,000
of which:
Taxes (11.72)                    257,800    378,800   507,700  1,144,300
/a Not financed by the Bank.
/b  of which DH 99.2 million financed out of the Agricultural Development Fund
(small farmers).
3866S-ISC



- 56-                                       ANNEX 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Proiect Cost Estimates
1989 - 1991            Foreign
1989       1990       1991        Local     Foreign   Total   Exchange
…--------------------- (OH '000) ------------------------ …
1.  SMALL FARMRSI                7S9_146  1.080.015 1.465.Q72  2.809.033   495.200  3,304,233         16
-  Construction              169.770    256,700   342.260    653,330   115,400    768.730         15
-  Land Improvement          44.165      54.195    66.410    139,970    24,800    164.770         15
-  Wells and Pumps           93.700    '13,610   138,100    256.060    89,350    345.410          25
-  Farm Equipment            116,030    125,210   138,200    261.610   117,830    379.440         30
-  Draft Animals             101,440    159,700   234,500    495,640            -    495.640       0
-  Livestock                234,041    370.600   545.602  1,002,423   147,820  1.150,243          12
2.  MEDIUM AND LARGE FARMERS 1.049.483  1.461.813 l.299.689  3.361.985 1.149.000  4.S10J.9             Ui
-  Construction              131,600    185,740   279,200    507,140    89,400    596,540         15
-  Land Improvement           32,730     59,200    93,330    157,560    27,700    185.260         15
-  Irrigation Equipment      82.950    143,350   222,429    336,629   112,100    448,729          25
-  Farm Machinery           511,043    682.075   885,680  1,268,398   810,400  2,078,798          40
-  Draft Animals             72.050      94,447   123,050    289,547            -    289,547       0
-  Livestock                 219,110    297.001   396,00C    802,711   109.400    912.111         12
3.  GREENHOUSE FARMING           180,371    264,172   380,239    164,982   659,800    824,782          80
4.  AGRO-INDUSTRIES               70.000    102.000   172.000       88,000   256,000    344,000        74
5.  LAND CONSOLIDATION           215.000    429,000   500.000  1,144,000            -  1,144,000        0
6.  RURAL HOUSING                 70.000    100.000   174,000    208,000   136.000    344,000          40
7.  COASTAL FISHERIES            400,000    421,000   435,000    312,000   944,000  1,256,000          75
8   ARIISANS AND RURAL
NON-FARM ENTERPRISES        55.000     69.000    84,000    128,000    80.000    218.000         40
9.  WORKING CAPITAL FOR
EXPORTERS                  50,000      70,000   120,000            -   240,000    240,000    100
10. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT   30.300        33.300    16.400      25.500    54.40Q       80.000     ZA
-  Physical Infrastructure   9,000        9.500      9.500      16,800    11,200      28,000      40
-  Equipment                  15,900     15.900          -       3.180    28,620      31.800      90
- Consultants/Training
Specialists      800        800        500         410      1,690       2,100     80
-  Other Services                400       1,000       700         410      1,690       2,100     80
-  Base Costs /j              26,100     27,200    10,700       20,800    43,200      64.000      68
-  Physical Continaencies'i  2.900        3,400      1SOO       2.240      5.560      7,800      70
-  Price Contincencies /,    1,300        2,700      4.200       2.560      5,640      8.200      70
11. TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        2.879.300  4.030.300 5-346-400  8.241.600 4.014.400 12.i256.000        1
12. TOTAL COST IN USI 00Q        3959900    S03.800   668.300  1.030.200   501.800  I.32Ji00         21
/A  In May 1989 Prices.
/1  15% on physical infrastructure (civil works) and 10% on equipment. consultants and services.
/I  4.5% p. a. local in 1989. and 5% in 1990 and 1991; 1% foreign in 1989 and 1990 and 3.5% in 1991.
3866E-15sc



- 57 -                         ANNEX 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan /a
IBRD                     Bank Disbursements /b            Relevant Profiles /c
Fiscal   Quarter   By End of               Cumulative   Bankwide          Morocco
Year     Ending    Quarter   Cumulative  Disbursed   Ag. Credit    Development
--- US$ million ----       X                         Finance
% (Cumulative) X
1989   Dec,  1988                                               2
March 1989                                              4                 1
June  1989                                              7                2
1990   Sept. 1989                                              10                4
Dec.  1989      15.0 /d       15.0        8            15                6
March 1990      on.o          15.0        8            19               10
June  1990      15.0          30.0       16            24               14
1991   Sept. 1990      15.0          45.0        24            29               19
Dec.  1990      15.0          60.0       32            35               24
March 1991      15.0          75.0       39            40               29
June  1991      15.0          90.0       47            46               34
1992   Sept. 1991      15.0         105.0        55            51               40
Dec.  1991      15.0         120.0       63            56               47
March 1992      15.0         135.0       71            61               51
June  1992      15.0        150.0        79            66               55
1993   Sept. 1992      15.0         165.0        87            70               61
Dec.  1992      10.0         175.0       92            74               67
March 1993      10.0         185.0       97            78                70
June  1993       5.0         190.0      100            82               73
1994   Sept. 1993                                              85               77
Dec.  1993                                             88               82
March 1994                                             91               87
June  1994                                             93               92
1995   Sept. 1994                                              95               96
Dec.  1994                                             98              100
March 1995                                            100
/a     Expected Signing Date                       July          1989
Expected Effectiveness Date                October       1989
Expected Completion Date                   June          1993
Expected Closing Date                      December      1993
/b     For a three-year commitment period (instead of the usual four to five
years under relevant profiles)
/c     Taking into account that retroactive financing is recommended after
October 1, 1988
/d     Initial disbursement under Special Account.
3866 -58C



- 58 -                                    ANNEX S
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Structure of Interest Rates (% R.a.)
As of          As of           As of           As of
Sent. i. 1983  ADrtl1. 198S  Dec. 31  1987  Apr.1 1. 1988
BANK AL-MAGHRIB
Basic Rediscolint Rate                 7.00          8.50             8.50             8.00
Commercial Paper for Exports           4.00          6.00             7.00             7.00
- Advance on Treasury (6 months)         4.04          8.50             8.50             8.50
- Rediscount of Medium-Term Paper        5.00          6.50             6.50             7.00
- Rediscount to CNCA                     3.00          4.00             4.00             4.00
- Rediscount to CIH                      3.50          6.50             6.50             6.50
- Rediscount to COG (FEC)                4.00          5.00             S.00             5.00
- Special Advance (normal rate)         15.00          18.00           ;8.00            18.00
CO?44ERCIAL BANKS
- Sight Deposits                          -              -               -                -
- Time Deposits (1-18 months)/j    4.50-10.50   8.50-12.00           8.50-12.00      8.50-11.00
- Savings Accounts                       7.00          8.50             8.50               8.50
- Rediscountable Paper                S.00-10.00   9.00-12.00        9.00-12.00      9.00-12.00
- Non-Rediscountable Paper           10.00-12.00       14.00           14.00             13.00
- Medium-Term (rediscountable)          11.00          14.00           14.00             12.00
- Medium-Term (non-rediscountable)   13.00             15.00           15.00          12.00-13.50
- Long-Term (more than 7 years)   13.00-15.00          16.00           16.00             14.00
TREASlURY
- Treasury Bills:  6 months              8.50          10.0           10.50            10.50
- Treasury Bills:  1 year               10.00          12.00           12.00            11.00
- Treasury Bills:  S years              10.SO          13.00        13.00-14.00    13.00-14.00
- Bonds (10 years)                      11.50          11.00           11.00            10.50
- Bonds (S years)                        -          6.50-7.50        6.50-7.50        6.00-7.50
- Guarantees (10-1S years)               -         11.00-11.50    11.00-11.50    10.50-11.00
- Sight Deposits                      up to 5.00   up to S.00        up to S.00    up to 5.00
- Time Deposits                       4.50-10.50   8.50-12.00        8.50-12.00       8.50-11.00
- Savings Accounts                       8.00           8.00            9.00             9.00
- Seasonal Loans                      7.00-11.00   8.00-12.00        8.00-12.00       7.00-11.00
- Medium-Term Loans/k                 8.00-13.00  10.50-14.00    10.50-14.00    10.50-13.00
- Rural Housing Loans                      -           14.00        12.50-14.00    12.00-13.00
- Fisheries Loans                          -             -                -          11.00-12.00
- Rural Land Acquisition Loans             -             -             15.00            13.00
- Bonds to other Banks                   3.00           3.00            4.25             4.25
muI
- Certificates of Deposits
(3 months - 5 years)              6.50-10.50      11.50            10.50             9.00
- Bonds (10 - 15 years)              11.00-11.50  12.00-12.50       11.00-11.50    10.50-11.00
- Medium-Term Loans                     14.00      15.00-16.00    13.00-14.00    12.00-13.00
- Leasing                               14.00          15.50            14.00           13.00
- Housing Loans                            -       11.00-16.00    13.50-15.00   12.00-13.50
- Tourism/Hotels loans                     -           13.00        15.00-16.00   13.00-14.50
- Bonds (15 years)                      12.00          12.00            11.50          11.00
- Bonds (S years)                        12.00         12.00            10.SO           9.00
MA Market rate- beyond 12 months as of 12/31/87
/k Agriculture. Forestry and Agro-Industry
3866E-17sc



- 59 -                              ANNEX 6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Distribution of Credit to the Economy 1984-87 /a
1984     1985    1986      1987       % in
--------- (DH Million)       ---      1987
1.  SHORT-TERM CREDIT                 23,432   27,561   30,969   33,361         63
Bank-Al Maghrib                 1,782    3,391    5,496    6,501         12
Commercial Banks               20,105   22,303   23,158   24,252         46
CNCA                              881    1,139    1,565    1,851          4
Other Special Fin. Inst. /b       664       728      750       757        1
2.  MEDIUM- AND LONG-TERM CREDIT    13.025   15,153   17,417   19,332           37
Commercial Banks                2,674    3,148    3,662    4,009          8
CNCA                              846    1,499    1,523    1,600          3
Other Special Fin. Inst.        9,505   10,506   12,232   13,723         26
3_  TOTAL                             36,457   42.714   48,386   52.693        100
of which:
Bank-Al Maghrib                 1,782    3,391    5,496    6,501         12
Commercial Banks               22,779   25,451   26,820   28,261         54
CNCA /c                         1,727    2,638    3,088    3,451          7
Other Special Fin. Inst.       10,169   11,234   12,982   14,480         27
4.  TOTAL GROWTH P.A. (X)                  13.0     17.1      13.3       9.0     -
5.  CNCA GROWTH P.A. (2)                    0.0 /d  52.7      17.1      11.7     -
/a Source: BAM and CNCA
/b  CIR, BNDE, Caisse de D6p6t et de Gestion (CDG) and Caisse Marocaine des
Marches (CMM)
/c  CNCA's share in total credit distributed by specialized financial
institutions is about 20% in 1987
/d After a 57% growth in 1982, and 162 in 1983 (severe drought in 1983/84)
36$6E-I ZSC



- 60-                                     ANNEX 7
Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM QF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CNCA Financial Position 1985-87
(OH Million)
BALANCE SHEET /a                    J8    % TA /b           1986   % TA         Q87   % TA       187   % TA
-As of August 31 -As of Dec. 31
ASSETS
Riskless Assets
Cash & Deposits                  285.2       4.6        583.9    7.2        251.7   2.9       117.4     1.2
Money Market                       0.0       0.0           0.0    0.0       527.0   5.8      341.2    3.S
Treasury Bills                   500.0      6.0         6         7.4       350.0  -L         90.0    QL2
Total Riskless Assets         785.2      12.6      1,183.9   14.6   1,138.7  12.6         548.6    5.7
Normal Risk Assets
Bills Discounted                  27.9       0.4           3.1    0.0         1.3   0.0        12.9    0.1
Loans < 1 year                   920.2      14.8      1,492.2   18.4   1,965.8  21.8   2,113.6   22.0
Loans > 1 year                 3,476.9      55.8      4,173.1   51.4   4,563.0  50.6   5,200.1   54.1
Less Provisions                 f217 7i    (3.5)       (291.1i   Jjfi)   (409.1) L4._.i    (409.1)  (4.31
Net Normal Risk Assets   4,207.4         67.5      5,377.2   66.2   6,120.9  67.9   6,917.5   71.9
Investments                           5.8       0.1           5.8    0.1         6.0   0.1         8.3    0.1
Plant & Equipment                    39.7        0.6                                              95.8    1.0
Land                                                      12.0    0.1        12.4   0.1
Buildings                                                 32.0    0.4        35.8   0.4
Furniture & Equipment                                     12.9    0.2        14.0   0.2
Automation                                                 4.1    0.1         7.2   0.1
Transportation                                            10.8    0.1        17.6   0.2
Construction in trocess                                    4.7    0.1         5.2   0.1
Total Plant & Equipment           39.7       0.6          76.4    0.9        92.3   1.0       95.8    1.0
Accum. Depreciation                          0.0          24.0    0.3        30.7   0.3        32.2    0.3
Net Plant & Equipment             39.7       0.6          52.5    0.6        61.6   0.7        63.6    0.7
Due from Ministry of Fin.              0.0       0.0      1,080.3   13.3   1,114.7  12.4   1,677.6   17.4
Other Assets                      1,198.1       19.2        419.4    5.2       571.3   6.3       398.9    4.1
Total Assets               6.3  ?        A,        LJL_    J.1mLfl LO.3.13 JQDcf   Ln61.LA  JQ_L
LIABILITIES
Deposits                         921.6      14.8       1,143.3   14.1   1,201.8  13.3   1,032.1   10.7
Savings Bonds                    302.0       4.8      1,130.3   13.9   1,103.5  12.2   1,132.1    11.8
Money Market                       0.0       0.0           0.0    0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0    0.0
Current Maturities LTD /_        200.0       3.2         215.5    2.7       342.8   3.8       342.8    3.6
Collections in Process            54.3       0.9          56.6    0.7        57.7   0.6        33.4    0.3
Other Current Liab.              147.7       2.4         234.6    2.        172.1   12        4sn.3    4.7z
Total Current Liabilities 1,625.6         26.1      2,780.3   34.2   2,877.9  31.9   2,990.6   31.1
Long Term Borrowings           3.792.4      60.8      4,370.2   53.8   5,034.6  55.9   5,382.0   56.0
Managed Funds                    229.0        3.7        340.8    _.0.    250.0  2L.            0.O   O.O
Total Long Term Liab.    4,021.4         64.5      4,610.9   56.8   S,284.6  58.6   5.382.0   56.0
Other Liabilities                  0.0       0.0          57.3    0.7        92.7   1.0       326.4    3.4
Total Liabilities           5.647.0      70.         448.S   91.7   8.2S.2  291.   8.699.0   20.
EOUITY
Capital                          135.9        2.2        135.9    1.7       135.9   1.S       211.7    2.2
General Reserves                 167.9        2.7        239.5    2.9       239.5   2.7       239.5    2.5
Minority                         213.9        3.4        213.9    2.6       213.9   2.4       213.9    2.2
Retained Earnings                            0.0           0.0    0.0        81.4   0.9       168.8    1.8
Current Period Earnings           71.6         .          81.4    1.         87.5   1.0        81.5    L.8
Total Equity                  589.2       9.4        670.6    8.3        758.0   8.4      915.4    9.S
Total Liab. & Equity                                         la L ,laB 2  Jfl g  JALAA  LhA. m.flLfm
/a Audited
/l TA = Total Assets
/; LTD = Long-Term Debt
3866E-16sc



-61-                                                      ANNEX 7
Table 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CNCA .E  ancial Position l .aS-87
(ON Million)
INCOME ANO PROFIT & LOSS                         %       X       1I"    I      S      1927      S      S      iI        I
STATEMENT /d                          Actual  TA lb  GOI /c  Actual  TA   GOI    Actual  TA    GOT   Sept. 1  TA    GOt
-------- -------------- As of August 31 ------------- ------   Dec. 31
Interest Income                        480.1   7.7   100.0    652.5   8.0  100.0  794.3    8.8 100.0   286.3   8.9  100.0
Interest Expense                       217.4   3.5    4S.3    319.3   3.9   48.9  404.8    4.S  51.0   152.2   4.7   63.2
Net Interest Income                    262.7   4.2    54.7    333.2   4.1   51.1  389.5    4.3  49.0   134.1   4.2   46.8
Other Operating Income                  18.1   0.3       6.4      21.7   0.3    6.1   25.2    0.3   6.1          9.8   0.3    6.8
Gross Operating Income                 20.8   LI                  S4.9 100.0 3 9   4A      100.0 4t.7    _    lQ   14.8A    4 5  10.L.
Staff                                   93.5   1.5    33.3    110.4   1.4   31.1  128.9    1.4  31.1    60.7   1.9   42.2
Occupancy                                8.3   0.1       3.0       9.8   0.1      2.8    9.7    0.1   2.3        3.9   0.1      2.7
Transportation                           6.6   0.1       2.4       8.2   0.1      2.3    8.6    0.1   2.1        2.7   0.1      1.9
General management                       6.1   0.1       2.2       7.6   0.1      2.1   10.1    0.1   2.4        3.3   0.1      2.3
Depreciation & Amort.                    5.4   0.1       1.9       6.9   0.1      2.0    9.0    0.1   2.2        2.8   0.1      1.9
Other Operating Expenses                 0.0   0.0       0.0       0.1   0.0    0.0    0.1    0.0   0.0          0.1   0.0    0.0
Total Operating Expenses               119.9   1.9    42.7    143.1   1.8   40.3  166.4    1.8  40.1    73.3   2.3   51.0
Net 0 eratina Income u1 u                               5'.      211.9           59.7  248.4    LA i   l                2. ZL  LI
Loan Loss Provisions                    90.0   1.4    32.1        73.5   0.9   20.7  123.5    1.4  29.8          4.7   0.1      3.3
Exchange Risk Provisions                 0.0   0.0       0.0      57.3   0.7   16.1   17.9    0.2   4.3         17.8   0.6   12.4
Special Provisions                       0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0   0.0    0.0   24.8    0.3   6.0          3.8   0.1      2.6
Income Net of Provisions                70.9   1.1    25.2        81.1    1.0   22.9   82.1    0.9  19.8    44.3   1.4   30.8
Prior Period Adjustments                (2.6) (0.0)   (0.9)       (3.8) (0.0)  (1.1)  (2.9)  (0.0) (0.7)   35.7   1.1   24.8
Other Income                             3.4   0.1       1.2       2.0   0.0    0.6    1.6    0.0   0.4           1.6   0.0     1.1
KfW Interest Rebate                      0.0   0.0       0.0       2.0   0.0    0.6    6.6    0.1   1.6          0.0   0.0    3.3
Net Income beFore Tax                   71.7   1.1    2S.5        81.4   1.0   22.9   87.4    1.0  21.1         81.5   2.5   56.7
Income Tax                               0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   1.0          0.0   0.0    0.0
Met Incom                               71.7   1.1    Ili         81.4   1.0   22.        74      1.0  21       81.5   2.5   5fiZ
Dividends                                0.0   0.0       0.0       0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0    0.0
Free Reserves                           71.7   1.1    25.5        81.4   1.0   22.9   87.4    1.0  21.1         81.5   2.5   56.7
INCOME RAtIlOS                           1                                                 19B
Return on Risk Assets          X         1.70X                    1.S1                   1.43X
Return on Total Assets         S         1.15                     1.00X                  0.97X
Return on Equity               X        12.16X                    12.13X                 11.54X
Staff                                   2,159                      2,237                  2.344 /d
Income/Staff                  DH       33.1°7                     36.373                 37,306
BALANCE SHEET RATIOS                     1i1                        1im                    1987                 t987
(As of Dec. 31)
Loans/Deposits                 1       456.51X                   470.34X               509.31S                 670.21X
Current Ratio                            1.07                      0.96                   1.08                    0.89
Ln. Loss Resv/Risk Assets   X            4.92X                     5.14X                  6.27X                  5.58X
Debt to Equity                           6.78                      6.84                   7.09                   6.25
Investments/Equity             X         0.98                      0.87X                  0.80S                  0.91X
Fixed Assets/Equity            X         6.74X                     7.82X                  8.12X                  6.35X
Invest & Fixed/Equity          X         7.731                     8.691                  8.921                  7.85S
Equity/Total Risk Assets    X           14.00X                    1:.47X                 12.38S                 13.23X
Equity/TRA & Investments    X           13.99X                    12.46X                 12.371                  13.22X
Equity/Total Assets            X         9.45S                     8.26X                  8.41X                  28.56X
Equity/Oebt                    X        14.761                    14.62X                 14.10X                  15.99S
LT RA/Tot RA                   %        78.571                    73.62X                 69.88S                 70.981
Growth Deposits             X                                  24.05X                  5.12X                -14.12X
Growth Loans                1                                  27.81%                 13.83S                 13.01S
Growth Total Assets         X                                  30.19X                 11.01X                -64.44S
Growth Equity               %                                  13.811                 13.04X                 20.76S
/A  Audited;  /b  TA ^ Total Assets (see balance sheet, Table 1);   /r  GOI   Gross Operating income;
/g 2.474 end 1987.
3866E 18sc



- 62 -
ANNEX 7
Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CNCA Financial Position 1985-87
(DH Million)
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS                      1985         1986          1987
OF FUNDS (As of August 31)
SOURCES
Net Income                                 71.7         81.4          87.4
Depreciation and Provisions                95.4        137.7         175.2
Cash Flow Generated                   167.1        219.1        262.6
Cash Flow Adjustment                    -         (164.2)        42.9
Increase in:
Capital & Reserves                         94.0          -             -
Deposits                                  206.9        221.7          58.5
Savings Bonds                            (450.3)       828.3         (26.8)
Other Current Liabilities                 148.0        104.7          65.9
Long-Term Borrowings                    1,686.6        577.8         664.4
Managed Funds                             229.0        111.8         (90.8)
Other Liabilities                           -           57.3          35.4
TOTAL SOURCES
APPL ICATIONS
Increase in:
Discounted Bills                           18.6        (24.8)         (1.8)
Loans < 1 year                            (73.9)       572.0         473.6
Loans > 1 year                          1,198.7        696.2         389.9
Subtotal                            1,143.4      1,243.4        861.7
Increase in:
Liquid (Riskless) Assets                  499.1        398.7         (45.2)
Investments                                 1.6          -             0.2
Plant & Equipment                          20.0         12.8           9.1
Due from Ministry of Finance                -        1,080.3          34.4
Other Assets                              417.2       (778.7)        151.9
TOTAL APPLICATIONS
3$S6K-2SC



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCQ
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL_CREDI _PRJECT
CNCA Proiected Financial Position 1988-92 /a
Proiection Assumotions
PRQJECTION ASSUMPTIONS                  1988                        1989                    1990                     1991                     1992           _-
Inflation Rate                         8.00%                         8.00%                   8.00%                    8.00%                    8.00%
Real Domestic Base Rate                 1.00%                        1.00%                   1.00%                    1.00%                    1.00%
Domestic Reference Rate                 9.00%                        9.00%                   9.00%                    9.00%                    9.00%
World Bank Variable Rate                8.00%                        8.00%                   8.00%                    8.00%                    8.00%
Exchanae Rates. OH
US$         FL       YJ             7.82    4.39       0.06      7.82    4.39    0.06   7.82   4.39   0.06         7.82    4.39    0.06   7.82    4.39        0.06
OK         SFr       ECU           28.97    6.08    10.10       28.97    6.08   10.10  28.97   6.08  10.10    28.97    6.08   10.10  28.97    6.08    10.10
0M         LI        SOR            4.94    0.01    11.06        4.94    0.01   11.06   4.94   0.01  11.06         4.94    0.01   11.06   4.94    0.01    11.06
FF         LS        UdC            1.45   14.63    11.06        1.45   14.63   11.06   1.45  14.63  11.06         1.45   14.63   11.06   1.45   14.63    11.06
Expense Assumutions
Absolute Estimates (OH Million)
Staff                             190.0                        237.5                    285.0                    327.7                   353.9
Occupancy                          22.0                         27.6                     32.4                     37.9                    40.9
Transportation                     12.0                         15.0                     17.6                     20.6                    22.3
General Management                 23.3                         29.2                     34.4                     40.2                    43.4
Depreciation & Amort.              13.2                         23.4                     40.9                     53.1                    53.1
Other Operating Expense             0.4                          0.4                      0.5                      0.6                      0.6
Loan Loss Provisions              101.8                        121.2                    157.2                    123.4                   123.4
Special Provisions For. Exch.    14.0                             2.8                     2.8                      2.8                      2.8
Change in % TA Ratios                  Base                         Base                     Base                     Base                     Base
Staff                               1.43%                        1.74%                    1.97%                    2.06%                    1.95%
Occupancy                           0.11%                        1.20%                    0.23%                    0.23%                   0.23%                    Li
Transportation                      0.10%                        0.11%                    0.12%                    0.13%                   0.12%                     1
General Management                  0.11%                        0.21%                    0.24%                    0.25%                   0.24%
Depreciation & Amort.               0.10X                        0.12%                    0.19%                    0.30%                   0.32%
Other Operating Expense             0.00%                        0.00%                    0.00%                    0.00%                   0.00%
Loan Loss Provisions                O.1S%                        0.93%                    1.01%                    1.14%                   0.73%
Loan Write Offs/Provistons             4.49%                        4.49%                    4.49%                  -69.09%                  -69.09%
Other Oneratina Income AssumD.
Absolute Estimates (OH Million)  32.0                           40.0                     46.0                     52.0                    59.1
Change in X TA Ratios               0.28%                        0.29%                    0.33%                    0.33%                   0.31%
.mscellaneous Asstnptions             Base     New      +/-        Base     New    +/-    Base    New   +l-         Base      New     +1-   Base    New       0-
ollections in Process                57.7      0.65%   13.0       70.7      0.80%  25.0   95.7    0.91%  30.0   125.7        0.89%  25.0  150.7       0.94%   30.0
uther Current Liabilities            172.1      1.89%   35.0      207.1      2.22%  60.0  267.1    2.73% 110.0   377.1        2.60%  60.0  437.1       2.86%  110.0
income Tax Rates                    0.00%   0.00%    0.00%       0.00%   0.00%   0.00%  0.00%  0.00%   0.00%   0.00%   0.00%   0.00%  0.00%   0.00%    0.00%
Dividend Rate                       0.00%   0.00%    0.00%       0.00%   0.00%   0.00%  0.00%  0.00%   0.00%   0.00%   0.00%   0.00%  0.00%   0.00%    0.00%
Capital Increases                   0        0         0         0        0       0       0      0        0        0       0        0      0        0         0
Transfer to Reserves               81       81       81         47       47      47    101    101       101      181     181      181    242      242       242
Change in Staff Count           2,474   2,474          0     2,474   2.789      315  2.789  3,1?7    328   3,117   3,368          251  3,368   3.605        237
Treasury Manaaement (OH Million)
Cash Position                     133.5                        144.6                    133.9                    151.6                   157.4                     ,->
T-Bill Inventory                  300.0                        300.0                    400.0                    500.0                     0.0 o     
Special T-Bi11s                 1,500.0                      1,500.0                  1,400.0                  1,300.0                 1,200.0                     cr 
HM Placements/(Borrowings)    2,283.5                        2,194.6                  2,033.9                 2,351.6                     157.4                       > 
Total Liquidity              2,283.5                      2,194.6                 2,033.9                  2,351.6                    157.4
Deposit Base Due 4 Months       1,414.3                      1,805.1                  2,368.4                 3,015.2                  3,888.2
Minimumn Liquidity                848.6    60.00%            1,083.1    60.00%        1,421.1   60.00%         1,809.1    60.00%       2,332.9    60.00%
Surplus Liauiditv/(Deficit)   1.434.9   101.45%              1.111.5    61.58X          612.9   25.88%           542.5    17.99%      (2.175.5) -55.95%
/a  Calendar year.                                                                                                                                          3866E-19sc



- 64 -
STAFf APPRAISAL REPORT                                             ANfEX7
KINGDOM Qf MOROLCO                                               Table S
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CNCA Proiected Financial Position 1988-92
(OH Million)
BALANCE SHEET                         JMif   % TA /        9 J    X TA      1490    % TA       L9        % TA        192    s TA
(as of Dec. 31)                   Estimates               ---------------------------- Projected --------------------------
AU
Riskless Assets
Cash & Deposits                    133.5   20.9       144.6  18.2       133.9   14.7        151.6    14.0        157.4       7.1
Money Market                       350.0    3.2       250.0   2.1       100.0    0.7        400.0      2.4          0.0      0.0
Treasury Bills                  1.900.0   16.5   L.S00-0  15.0   l.BOO.O   13.0            ,aflfo,    10.7    1.200.0        6.3
Total Riskless Assets        2,283.5   20.9   2,194.6  18.2   2.033.9   14.7    2,351.6            14.0     1,357.4      7.1
Normnl Risk Assets
Bills Discounted                    13.9    0.1        15.1   0.1        16.3    0.1         17.6      0.1         19.0      0.1
Loans <1 year                   2,664.8   24.4   3.340.8  27.8   4,117.4   29.8    5,004.8    29.7    6.013.9    31.4
Loans > 1 year                  5.672.2   51.9   6.365.8  52.9   7.699.7   55.7    9.662.S    57.4   12.165.7    63.6
Less Provisions                    IQi6.31  (4.6f   J622. ) LL21   L772.21  LS.61    (980.8)   £.81  11.21.Z81   (fi.41
Net Normal Risk Assets    7.844.6   71.7   9,099.6  75.6  11,061.2   80.0   13,704.0    81.4   16.980.7    88.8
Investments                             8.3    0.1         8.3   0.1         8.3    0.1          8.3      0.0          8.3      0.0
Plant & Equipment
Land                                15.0    0.1        16.5   0.1        19.0    0.1         23.1      0.1         26.3      0.1
Buildings                           43.5    0.4        47.8   0.4        55-0    0.4         67.0      0.4         76.1      0.4
Furniture & Equipment               17.0    0.2        18.7   0.2        21.4    0.2         26.1      0.2         29.7      0.2
Automation                           8.8    0.1         9.7   0.1        11.1    0.1         13.5      0.1         15.4      0.1
Transportatton                      21.4    0.2        23.5   0.2        27.0    0.2         32.9      0.2         37.4      0.2
Construction in Process              6.3     i.         7.0   0.1         8.0    0.1          9.7      0.1         11.1     0L1
Total Plant S Equipment        111.9    1.0       123.2   1.0       141.5      1.0       172.4      1.0       195.9       1.0
Accum. Depreciation           (L7.3i  LL.31        41.01 (0.31    LZ47.1)  LL.1          LIL7A41   LLI.       16S.21   LL-9
Net Plant & Equipment           '4.7    0.7        82.2   0.7        94.4    0.7         1lS.0      0.7       130.7       0.?
Due from Ministry of Finance          325.7    3.0       248.4   2.1       226.8      1.6      263.0       1.6       256.6      1.3
Other Assets                          39a9    LA         38.9 1a    1      39a9       Li       398.9       LA  2    398.9 LLi
Total Assets                JLSn       LOLA ,la"  .L. J  fLLA   1.3 5LAO.    J1AA4L    ULLA   1L132f LkLA
LIABILITIES
Deposits                        1,232.1   11.3   1,632.1  13.6   2,232.1    16.1    3,013.4           17.9    4,068.1       21.3
Savings Bonds                   1,183.1   10.8   1.362.1  11.3   1,562.1    11.3    1,562.1            9.3    1.562.1        8.2
Money Market                         0.0    0.0         0.0   0.0         0.0    0.0          0.0      0.0    1,200.0        6.3
Current Maturities LTD             326.9    3.0       420.1   3.5       408.2    3.0        392.1      2.3        362.e      1.9
Collections in Process              70.7    0.6        95.7   0.8       125.7    0.9        150.7      0.9        180.7      0.9
Other Current Liabilities          207.1   -.2        267.1   2.2       277.1    2.Z        437.1       .LA       S47.1     L.2
Total Current Liab.          3.019.9   27.6   3,777.1  31.4   4,705.2   34.0    5,555.3    33.0    7,920.7    41.4
Long Term Borrowings            6.68S.6   61.1   6,936.9  57.7   7,654.6   55.4    9,592.8    57.0    9,230.0    48.2
Managed Funds                      2..IL,5   2.5L    297.0   2LI        323.8    _.         352.9    2..1         3-.7       2.0
Total Long Term Liab.        6,958.1   63.6   7,233.9  60.1   7,978.4   57.7    9,945.7    59.1    9,614.7    50.3
Other Liabilities                     118.5    1.1       134.9   1.1       5i3.3    1.1         171.7     -la        17.,3      -.I
Total Liabilities              10,096.5   92.3  11,145.9  92.6  12,836.8   92.9   15,672.7    93.1    17.722.7    92.6
EumUI
Capital                            135.9    1.2       135.9   1.1       135.9    1.0        135.9       0.8       135.9      0.7
General Reserves                   239.5    2.2       239.5   2.0       239.5     1.7       239.5       1.4       239.5      1.3
Minority                           213.9    2.        213.9   1.8       213.9    1.5        213.9       1.3       213.9      1.1
Retained Earnings                  168.8    1.b       249.9   2.1       296.8    2.1        397.4       2.4       578.8      3.0
Current Period Earnings             81.0    la         4f.9   LA        100.      0.7       181.4       1.1       241.       LI
Total Equity                   839.1     7.7      886.0   7.4       986.6    7.1       1.168.^      6.9    1,409.9        7.4
Total Liab. 8 Equity        IA.%35.        lO LO Sa.L 1LOA.   13A&13.5    La" 0       .LMAU.1    LOa    ,I.LLaA   lQOL
/A TA u Total Assets
3866E-20sc



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREUIT PRDJECT
CNCA Proiected Financial Position 1988-92
(DO Million)
INCOME AND PROFIT & LOSS                 1988   XTA /A    X          1989      TA   S        l99f     X TA    2         Ifi    S TA    S           19Z    S 
STATEMENT                        Estimates            GOI /1                  GOI                       GOI                        GO0                       GOI
(As of December 311                                                  --------------------------------- Projected --------------------------------------------
Interest Income                         887.1      8.1    100.0    975.4    8.1  100.0  1,193.0   8.6  100.0    1,438.0    8.5  100.0   1.704.5   8.9   100.0
interest Expense                        466.0      4.3      52.5    535.6    4.5   54.9    607.5   4.4   50.9          744.8    4.4   51.8       889.0   4.6    52.2
Met Interest Income                     421.0      3.9      47.5    439.8    3.7   45.1    585.5   4.2   49.1          693.2    4.1   48.2        815.5   4.3    47.8
Other Operating Income                   32.0      0.3       7.1     40.0    0.3    8.3        46.0   0.3    7.3         52.0    0.3    7.0        59.1   0.3      6.8
Gross Operating Income                  4.         4.1    100.0    472.8   4l   100.0    631.5   Jfi  100.0             74.2    4.   100.0        874.6   4.    100.0
Staff                                   190.0      1.7      41.9    237.5    2.0   49.5    285.0   2.1   45.1           327.7    1.9   44.0       372.3   1.9    42.6
Occupancy                                22.2      0.2       4.9      27.6    0.2    5.8       32.4   0.2    5.1         37.9    0.2    5.1        43.1   0.2      4.9
Tranportation                            12.0      0.1       2.6      15.0    0.1    3.1       17.6   0.1    2.8         20.6    0.1    2.8        23.4   0.1      2.7
General Management                       23.3      0.2       5.1      29.2    0.2    6.1       34.4   0.2    5.4         40.2    0.2    5.4        45.7   0.2      5.2
Depreciation & Amort.                    13.2      0.1       2.9      23.4    0 2    4.9      40.9   0.3    6.5          53.1    0.3    7.1        60.3   0.3      6.9
Other Operating Expenses                  0.4      0.0       0.1       0.4    0.0    0.1        0.5   0.0    0.1          0.6    0.0    0.1         0.7   0.0      0.1
Total Operating Expenses             260.8      2.4     57.6    333.2    2.8   69.4    410.9   3.0   65.1           480.1    2.9   64.4       545.4   2.9    62.4
Net Oceratina Income                    192.3      LA 8     4A       146.6    L^    3         22e.6   LA 6   14.        265.1    1.    ILk        329.2   1.2    lZi   c0'
UV
Loan Loss Provisions                    101.8      0.9      22.5    121.2    '.0   25.3    157.2   1.1   24.9           123.4    0.7   16.6       140.2   0.7    16.0   1
Exchange Risk Provisions                 22.s      0.2       5.0       9.0    0.1    1.9       (2.8) (0.0)  (0.4)         0.7    0.0    0.1        (2.7) (0.0)   (0.3)
Special Provisions                       25.8      0.2       5.7      16.4    0.1    3.4       18.4   0.1    2.9         18.4    0.1    2.5        15.6   0.1      1.8
Income Net of Provisions                 42.2      0.4       9.3       0.1    0.0    0.0      47.8   0.3    7.6         122.6    0.7   16.4       176.0   0.9    20.1
Prior Period Adjustments                  0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0
Other Income                             32.0      0.3       7.1      40.0    0.3    6.3       46.0   0.3    7.3         52.0    0.3    7.0        59.1   0.3      6.8
KfW Interest Rebate                       6.8      0.1       1.5       6.8    0.1    1.4        6.8   0.0    1.1          6.8    0.0    0.9         6.8   0.0      0.8
Net Income before Tax                    81.0      0.7      17.9      46.9    0.4    9.8    100.6   0.7   15.9          181.4    1.1   24.3       241.9   1.3    27.7
Income Tax                                0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0   0.0    0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0
Net Income                                 .       L0       17                L       LI    100.6   0.7   15.           181.4    1.1   24I        241.9   la    z2z_
Dividends                                 0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0   0.0    0.0          0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0   0.0      0.0
Free Reserves                            81.0      0.7      17.9     46.9    0.4    9.8    100.6   0.7   15.9           181.4    1.1   24.3       241.9   1.3    27.7
/a TA = Total Assets
/b GOI = Gross Operating Income
3866E-21sc
0 Z
oz
ON J



- 66 -                            ANNEX 7
Table 7
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CNCA Proiected Financial Position 1988-1992
Ratios Reflecting Projected Financial Condition
1988      1989      1990        1991      1992
1. INCOME RATIOS
Return on Risk Assets       %    1.032     0.52%       0.912      1.32?    1.422
Return on Total Assets     2    0.74%      0.39Z       0.732      1.08%    1.262
Return on Equity            %    9.66%     5.30%      10.20?     15.53%   17.16?
Staff                      #    2,474      2,789      3,117      3,368     3,605
Income/Staff              DH   32,740    16,830    32,274       53,855    67,109
2. BALANCE SHEET RATIOS
Loans/Deposits             %  636.67%  .557.53?    495.54%    454.77%  427.41%
Current Ratio                    1.64~   1.47          1.31       1.33     0.93
Loan Loss Resv/Risk Assets %    6.06%      6.40%       6.53%      6.68%    6.69%
Debt to equity                   6.1       6.5         7.6        7.8       7.0
Investments/Equity         %    0.99%      0.94%      0.84%       0.71%    0.59%
Fixed Assets/Equity         %    8.90%     9.27%       9.57%      9.85%    9.27%
Invest. & fixed Equity     %    9.89?    10.21%       10.41?     10.56%    9.86%
Equity/Total Risk Assets   2   10.70?      9.74%       8.92%      8.52%    8.30%
Equity/TRA & Investments   %   10.68?      9.73%       8.91?      8.52?    8.30%
Equity/Total Assets         %    7.67%     7.36%       7.14%      6.94%    7.37%
Equity/Debt                 %   11.97%    12.04%      12.24%     11.70%   14.70%
LT RA/Tot Risk Assets       %   67.92%    65.48%      65.07%     65.80?   66.85?
Growth Deposits             %   19.02%    32.46?      36.76?     35.00%   35.00?
Growth Loans                %   15.01%    16.00%      21.56%     23.89%   23.91?
Growth Total Assets         2   13.04%    10.03?      14.89%     21.83%   13.61%
Growth Equity               %   14.51%     3.02%       3.12?      7.11%    8.63%
386E6-68C



- 67 -
ANNEX 7
Table 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
CNCA Proiected Financial Position 1988-1992
(DH Million)
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS                 1988     1989      1990     1991      1992
OF FUNDS (As of December 31)
SOURCES
Net Income                           81.0      46.9    100.6    181.4    241.9
Depreciation and Provisions         163.3    170.0    213.7    195.6    213.4
Cash flow Generated             244.3    216.9    314.3    377.0    455.3
Cash Flow Adjustment              -       (50.4)   (57.6)    23.4  1,231.3
Increase in:
Capital & Reserves                    -         -         -        -         -
Deposits                            200       400      600       781.3  1,054.7
Savings Bonds                        51       179       200        -         -
Other Current Liabilities          (221.7)   178.2    128.1       68.9    110.7
Long-Term Borrowings              1,303.6    251.3    717.7  1,938.2   (362.8)
Managed Funds                        54.1      24.5      26.8     29.1      31.8
Other Liabilities                  (207.9)    16.4       18.4     18.4      15.6
TOTAL SOURCES                 1,2.   1,215.        L       32ES6.
APPLICATIONS
Increase in:
Discounted Bills                      1.0       1.2       1.2      1.3       1.4
Loans < 1 year                      551.2    676.0    776.6    887.4  1,009.1
Loans > 1 year                      472.1    693.6  1,333.9  1,962.8  2,503.2
Subtotal                      1,024.3  1,370.8  2,111.7  2,851.5  3,513.7
Increase in:
Liquid (Riskless) Assets          1,734.9    (88.9)  (160.7)   317.7   (994.2)
Investments                           -         -         _        _         _
Plant & Equipment                    16.1      11.3      18.3     30.9      23.5
Due from Ministry of Finance   (1,351.9)   (77.3)   (21.6)    36.2          (6.4)
Other Assets                          -         -         -        -       _
TOTAL APPLICATIONS
3866E- 3SC



- 68 -                           ANNEX 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Agricultural Development Fund!'
1.        The Agricultural Development Fund (FDA) was created with the 1986
Law of Finance and its basic text was published in the official Gazette of
Morocco (Bulletin Officiel no. 3818, issued January 1, 1986, page 23 Title II,
Article 3, Permanent Dispositions for the Creation of a special Account
no. 35-52 called Agricultural Development Fund). Details are in the working
document no. 15. The FDA special account is open at the Ministry of
Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA) and the necessary funds are earmarked
in Government's investment budget. CNCA is responsible for administering the
Fund.
2.        The key objective of the FDA is to provide some capital subsidies
for selected private on-farm investments in accordance with the Agricultural
Investment Code. This code and the FDA aim at encouraging agricultural
production, in particular small farm production in disadvantaged rural areas,
with a view to increasing farmers' income and reducing rural migration into
overpopulated urban centers. Capital subsidies finance about 10% to 30% of
the total cost of the investment, but do not eliminate the entirety of the
downpayment usually required from farmers to obtain medium- or long-term loans
through CNCA's branch offices. Government funds are chaniielled to the
selected beneficiaries for their applicable investments through CNCA's credit
operations. Interest rates for these credit operations are not subsidized.
3.        To ensure that CNCA is adequately compensated for the administration
of the FDA, the Ministry of Finance agreed in September 1986 to pay to CNCA a
fee of a sufficient level to cover CNCA's related administrative costs. This
agreement, which is satisfactory to CNCA and to the Bank, is being enforced
since end 1986. Under the Project the amount of capital subsidies to be
financed out of the FDA is estimated at DH 99.2 million (US$12.4 million
equivalent). The EEC is providing a grant to the Government of Morocco to
support FDA's operations.
_/ Fonds de D6veloppement Agricole (FDA).
38662-7SC



- 69 -                                                            9
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
The Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL II) (Loan 28B5-MOR)
Key Policy Area, Action & Progress to Date /a
Poliev Area                            Action                                         Progress to Date
Aoricultural &
Food PricingS
Harket1in
- Cereals Sector   - Implement grain pricing & marketing reform,    - 1st phase implemented (production quotas for
including:                                          subsidized flour; all other types of flour
(a) finalization of new methodology for             liberalized; new methodology for cereal price
calculating cereals floor prices;               calculation). Hard wheat, maize and barley
(b) production quotas for subsidized flour;         have been effectively deregulated.
(c) preparation & submission of draft legal
texts related to the deregulation of the
grain marketing system;
(d) settlement of arrears to millers;
(e) elimination of quantitative restrictions
on imports of all grains (other than
soft wheat).
- Sugar Sector      - Freeze producer prices in real terms for          - Price freeze in 1987/88 and 1988/89.
1987/88 & 1988/89; adopt operational plan           Deregulation plan being defined.
to deregulate sector over 5 years,.
- Ed31le Oil        - Establish & adopt action plan to deregulate    - TORs for plan defined.
iector           sector.
- Livestock         - Eliminate price controls on bran and              - Completed.
Products         sugarbeet pulp.
- Increase seasonal price differential for milk  - Differential is 24% at present.
to 20% in 1986/87; maintain at that level
in 1987/88 & increase it further in 1988/89.
- Inputs            - Close down 80% of fertilizer outlets meeting   - Criteria defined.
revised criteria (40% before 2nd Tranche).
- Comply with input subsidies phase out             - Price increase expected in June 1989.
program designed in ASAL-I, with weighted
average fertilizer price increase of 11%
in 1988 & 1989.
- Achieve 75% collection rate for water             - 2nd & 3r4 tranche release conditions
charges in 1987 & 82% in 1988.                      respectively.
Co M nsatorX Proorams
- Targeted          - Finalize & implement targeted                     - Implementation underway.
compensatory     compensatory programs.
programs
/A List is limited to tranche release conditionality.
Other adjustment measures by policy area are also being followed under the loan.



- 70                                                     ANNX-
Page 2
Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan lcont&d)
Pol1cy ArLa                        Action                                               Proaress to Date
Public Expenditurgs Prooram
- Investment        - Allocate sufficient budgetary resources             - Allocation of 13X in 198E. and 15X in 1989.
budget            to MARA in 1988 & 1989.
Suoaort Services
- Extension         - Create a separate division for Extension            - Division created.
in MAA.
- Livestock         - Privatize animal health services                    - Privatization in 40 zones implemented.
in a total of 60 zones.
- Transfer artificial insemination services          - Transfer completed in 20 zones.
to private sector in a total of 35 zones.
External Trade
- Trade             - Transfer progressively over 4 years all             - First group of products transferred in
liberalization   agricultural products to List A of the                 the 1988 PGI.  Timetable of transfer for
General Import Program (PGI)                         other products being defined.
3634Ep70-71



- 71 -
ANNEX 10
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PERFORMANCE UNDER PREVIOUS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS
A.   First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects
(Loan 433-MOR, Loan 861-MOR, Credit 338-MOR)
B.   Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1361-MOR)
C.   Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1704-MOR)
D.   Fifth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2367-MOR)
E.   Sixth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2731-MOR)
PERFORMANCE UNDER PREVIOUS AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECTS
A. First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects
(Loan 433-MOR; Loan 861-MOR and Credit 338-MOR)
1.       Under the First Project, a Bank loan of US$10.0 million'' helped
finance CNCA's lending program for the period 1966-69. It financed
investments undertaken by about 6,000 medium and large farmers and farm
equipment purchased by a State company (CGEA).!' The Project was audited by
the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)3' which attributed the Project's
mixed results to CNCA's shortage of qualified staff and to Government's
interference in CNCA operations by directing CNCA loans to small farmers,
which was not envisaged under the Project. Under the Second Project, the Bank
provided a Loan/Credit of US$34.0 million to CNCA to finance medium and large
farmers' investments over the 1973-76 period. About 17,000, mostly large
farmers, benefitted from the Project. Based on the experience of the First
Project, the Bank's concern related to CNCA's institutional problems
including: (a) the need to introduce separate accounts for CLCA operations;
(b) the strengthening of CNCA capital structure; (c) the need to increase
profitability of CNCA's operations; and (d) the need to increase the
reliability of financial data. According to the Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR) No. 2543 issued June 12, 1979, results were positive. CLCA
accounts were separated in 1972 and the increase in capital was made erfective
in 1973.
1/ Date of effectiveness: February 2, 1966.
2/ Centrale de Gestion des Exploitations Agricoles, managing land confiscated
from foreign settlers.
3/ OED Report on Agricultural Lending Programs; Background Paper Nc. 4.



- 72 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
Following Bank insistence, interest rates on medium-term loans were increased
to 7% for cooperatives and 8.51 for CRCA clients. Auditing of CNCA's accounts
was begun by independent external auditors.
B. Third Agricultural Credit Projeet (Loan 1361-MOR)
2.       The Third Agricultural Ci.-it Project, which became effective on
August 11, 1977, financed medium and large farmers, farmer pre-cooperative
groups, and small farmers, the latter in view of the good results obtained by
CNCA. The Bank loan of US$35.0 million was disbursed on schedule. According
to PPAR No. 3248 dated December 23, 1980, the Project achieved its objectives
in terms of expansion of lending activity and farmer coverage, and of
financing investment having a positive impact on beneficiaries' income (high
financial rates of return), employment creation (about 52,000 man-years of
employment were created) and the Moroccan economy (high economic rates of
return).
C. Fourth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1704-MOR)
3.       The Fourth Agricultural Credit Project included all CNCA lending to
individual farmers through Headquarters, CRCAs and CLCAs; to Agrarian Reform
Cooperatives and Pre-cooperative Associations; and to small and medium scale
agroindustries. Also included was technical assistance to assist CNCA in
improving its monitoring and evaluation system. The Project covered CNCA
lending over the period September 1979 to August 1982. Total Project costs
were estimated at US$737.2 million equivalent, with the World Bank Loan of
US$70.0 million, a loan from KfW of the Federal Republic of Germany of US$50.0
million equivalent and a loan from the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) of about US$25.0 million equivalent financing 582 of the
Project estimated foreign exchange cost (US$250.0 million). The Loan was
fully disbursed by August 25, 1983. The OED report No. 5392 of December 28,
1984 described it as a successful operation on account of: (a) substantial
increase in the number and amount of lending to small farmers, though
maintaining satisfactory credit recovery rates; and (b) a satisfactory
financial performance of CNCA.
D. Fifth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2367-MOR)
4.       The Fifth Agricultural Credit Project was fully disbursed and closed
March 17, 1987. This Project financed the same components as in the Fourth
Project, with further emphasis on: (a) agroindustrial development through the
establishment of a special agroindustrial lending unit at one CRCA (Meknes);
(b) institution building through financing the design of a management
information system (MIS); and (c) domestic resource mobilization by encouraging
banking activities in branch offices. CNCA maintained the strict financial
standards required under the loan Agreement and has emerged as an expanding
financial institution making a major contribution to sectoral development.
The Project covered CNCA lending from September 1983 to August 1986. The
foreign exchange cost was cofinanced by FADES (US$26 million), ADB (US$31
million), KfI (US$24 million) and the Bank loan of US$115.4 million
_  _2 .-I _ _ .



- 73 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3
E. Sixth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2731-MOR)
5.       The Sixth Agricultural Credit Project is pursuing the Government's
sectoral objectives being supported by the Bank through ASAL operations, and
the institutional development started during CNCA V, with increased attention
given to training. The Bank loan (US$120 million equivalent) is expected to
be fully disbursed by June 1989, i.e., ahead of schedule (original closing
date 03/31/90). Cofinancing is provided by ADB (US$66 million) and KfW (US$35
million). USAID was involved in the operation through technical assistance,
sector studies and training.
6.       The combined impact of the Bank-financed projects up to now has been
positive for CNCA, and these loans have been pErticularly successful in: (a)
mobilizing capital for private sector investments in Morocco which are now
taking over the primary role from the public sector in agriculture; (b)
increasing production while improving food security; (c) upgrading
agricultural technology and productivity; and (d) creating an efficient and
viable farm credit institution (CNCA). A combined and full completion report
on the Fifth and Sixth Projects is scheduled for March 1990.
2308E-3sc



- 74 -
ANNEX I1
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for CNCA's Strategic Planning Unit/Department
i.       Purpose.  In order for CNCA to develop a fairly detailed, strategic
plan and a set of action plans to carry out its strategy as well as a tracking
and review mechanism, CNCA will establish by June 30, 1990 a Planning Unit or
Department reporting to CNCA's Chief Executive Officer (CEO).
2.       Objectives of thePlanngUnit.  The Planning Unit will be responsible
for elaborating CNCA corporate objectives, in conjunction with the CEO, and
communicating them down to the lowest management level within the
institution. The Planning Unit will also manage the planning and budgeting
process, establish schedules, ensure the necessary coordination between
departments, organize and provide materials for planning conferences, and
conduct reviews.
3.       Methods.  A sound budgeting and planning process requires a short,
carefully worded statement of institutional purpose covering markets and
strategic goals that acts as a framework for the entire management process.
CNCA's development objectives and strategy are described in para. 4.23 of the
main report. The planning process also states the institution's approach to
planning, frequency of plan, areas covered, and review/control process. To
make the process successful, training is essential. CNCA's plan will cover
the following functional areas:
(a)  RiskAssetManagement:  Sectors targeted for lending, portfolio
improvement, debt recovery, new loan products;
(b) LiabilityManagement: Deposit generation, new liability products,
marketing;
(c)  FeeIneomeManagement:  Sources of increased fee income and means
of marketing and delivering fee-based services;
(d) PersonnelManagement: Training, career development programs,
recruitment, rotation, promotion, compensation;
(e) Productivity/Efficiency Enhancement: Automation, manual of
procedures, revised documentation;
(f) ControlFunctions: Internal audit, external audit, loan review,
performance targets.



- 75 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2
The detailed contents of these functional areas are described in the working
document no. 9. The structure of the planning process can be visualized as
follows:
(a) Input and analysis phase: scanning the environment, defining
corporate mission and objectives, preparinig economic and financial
projections;
(b) Decision phase: setting division objectives and strategy development;
(c) Documentation phase: preparing strategic position papers, action
plans and budgets;
(d) Review phase: reviewing plan documents, strategy, action plans,
budget, reporting requirements and control mechanisms.
4.       Performance Review. Analysis of ptogress in reaching earnings
objectives and implementing action plans should take place monthly. Quarterly
review will give emphasis on the analysis of actual results against plan.
Reviews should take place at all levels of the organization, and concentrate
mainly on expectations to plan and on the development of corrective action
programs for CNCA.
5.       Strategic plannqng and Operational PI   .  CNCA has already
established broad corporate objectives for the sectors to which it lends and
intends to lend, for the enhancement of deposit generating capacity and for
the diversification of financial products and services. This means ttma' CNCA
has already a strong sense of direction. Also, this sense of direction htas
been communicated to CNCA's branch managers. CNCA has developed an
Orientation Plan which spells out the major orientation of the institution for
1988-1992 (working Document no. 8). What is needed at this time (end 1988) is
a concerted effort: to set a detailed timeframe for the accomplishment of
objectives, and to establish a detailed program for building the institutional
bases and control systems that will allow CNCA to expand and deversify in a
prudcnt manner and with the proper suppcrt systems, by 1992. At this
transition period, planning at CNCA should therefore have a practical,
implementation-oriented style.
365SE53-S4sc



- 76 -                            ANNEX 12
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Suggested Elements of Cost Benefit Analysis
for Branch Network Construction
1.       For each branch office to be constructed, rehabilitated or extended,
it is suggested to examine alternatives for renting or for making other
arrangements for office space. The proposals for each investment site usually
include a description of the alternatives explored and reasons why these
alternatives were rejected.
2.       The cost/benefit analysis of each project, for construction,
rehabilitation and extension normally show, on a net incremental basis,
estimated projections over a fifteen year period of:
Benefits:
-    number of additional borrowers;
-    increase in lending (short-term and medium- and long-term);
-    increase in banking activities;
-    increase in income from lending and banking services.
Costs:
-    investment costs;
-    operating costs
-    financial costs of incremental loans and other banking activities.
Where construction replaces rental space, CNJCA should be able to know the
savings in rental fees over the life of the newly constructed office.
3.       When the present value of the net benefits are positive at a 12%
discount rate, construction is a good investment.
4.       Once it has completed such an analysis for at least two large and two
small branches, CNCA may then develop criteria or guidelines indicating that
investment costs of various levels require increased lending and banking
activities in a given proportion to the costs to justify the investments. A
given density of rural population with estimated farm sizes, as yet unreached
by a branch office, would be likely to represent untapped demand for credit
and banking services of a certain amount. Thus CNCA could establish a minimal
acceptable level and density of population to be reached by a new branch that
would justify ar investment. Provided that alternative sites and arrangements
were explored before the investment option were chosen, CNCA could then use
population and farm size data as a substitute for projected lending/banking
and net income to justify the investment.
2214E-47sc



- 77 -
ANNEX 13
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Creation of a National Guarantee Fund
1.       Purpose.  CNCA and the Government of Morocco envisage the creation
of a National Guarantee Fund (FNG) that will cover part of the principal of
unpaid subloans granted at CNCA's risk to small and medium operators in
rainfed areas in cases where it is clear that natural calamities are a
dominant factor in the formation of existing arrears.
2.       Justification.  Credit guarantees will encourage the issue of
institutiona'l credit to small farmers in particular, and reduce the risk to
CNCA to lend to target groups living in disadvantaged economic areas. Loan
repayment guarantees can also foster the formation of private mutual guarantee
associations by target group beneficiaries.
3.       Methods.  Government would prepare a study by June 30, 1990, with a
view to establishing by June 1992, with CNCA's assistance, the proposed
National Guarantee Fund. The study will examine the following:
(a) definition of the objectives of the National Guarantee Fund;
(b)  proposals ,or organizing, financing and managing the Fund;
(c) analysis of the risks that are eligible for coverage by the Fund and
of the operational procedures to provide effective and efficient risk
coverage to the beneficiaries;
(d) legal aspects and preparation of the draft charter or law under which
the Fund will be established and will operate.
4.       Conditions for Success.  Despite the advantages of guarantee funds,
too much should not be expected from them. They alone cannot solve the
problem of improved access to credit for small farmers. Loan default in case
of natural calamities should also be associated with a careful analysis on a
case-by-case basis of the eligibility to the Guarantee Fund. This should be
done independently of political pressure. The risk of bureaucratization of a
National Guarantee Fund can be minimized if the target beneficiaries can
participate actively in the guarantee process.



- 78 -
ANNEX 14
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect file
1.       CNCA Computerization Plan.
2.       CNCA Financial Position and Performance, and Audit Report on 1986 and
1987 Accounts.
3.       CNCA Organizational Structure and MIS.
4.       Position and Role of Rural Women in che Moroccan Economy; the
Khemisset Pilot Project and CNCA Plan of Action to reach its female
clientele.
5.       Training Master Plan for CNCA, 1988-1992.
6.       Agro-Industry and Fishery Sectors:  Potentialities, Plan of Action,
and Environmental Considerations.
7.       Framework for Appraisal of Subloans to Agro-Industrial Investors.
8.       CNCA Orientation Plan 1988-1992.
9.       CNCA Strategic and Operational Planning.
10.      CNCA Institutional and Financial Appraisal:  Current Transition and
Prospects.
11.      The Mobilization of Domestic Resources by CNCA:  Current Trends and
Prospects.
12.      Rural Housing Sector Study.
13.      Livestock Sector Study.
14.      Agricv.'taral Credit in Morocco:  Evaluation 1980-87 and Perspectives
1988-92 (Basic Preparation Report in three volumes).
15.      Agricultural Development Fund (FDA):  Selected Documents and Data.
16.      CNCA Credit Guidelines (Regime des Prets).
17.      Comparative Analysis of Public and Private Investments in Agriculture
in Morocco: Past Trends 1984-87; Forecasts 1988-1991.
18.      Fisherites Sector Study:  Trends, Needs and Potential for financing
Coastal Activities.
19.      Financial and Economic Analysis (of Selected Investment Models).
3866E-8SC



IT-AFF. AeELUA-
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Flow of Proieet Funds
I F < Q R Q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CCO                                         Q    *  FO         UE SiEiS UiE
|W B  Loan                  fl
w  ------__  G O V E R N     E N T 
Cofinanc i ng                                            Cgro-iput
_c--                         F D A                                                                  S Suppliers
. /   r-- _ ._                         ~~~~~~Category    kfienflfirjaries__
A       Small Farmers
*11                     a {ls    - Medium/Large Farmers                     |
Bank                                                                               C     - Agroindutries
Al-Maghrib                                              f I N A *  C I N G                  -Rural Housing                          C   C A
_   ___ K  l                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Correspondent
/ IRevolvin< Fundi**                          S u b 1 o a n s         Equity             E  - EKporters (working SaRiLal)- C
('Special Account)                      .                           I                                                                                        I
WI  f r - Coastal Fisheries
G      - Artisans and Others   '                   l
C N C A                                                   H   | - Land Consolidation        ;
*  _ _  _________                                      _                                .    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Clientele of
O.7n tResources                                              .Mtoroccan
_  I 0    - Institutional                         Exporters
development and trairning
(2)                 ---------       ~       ~       ~      1--
FNG                                  £
REA                                       :Guarantee: .  Small Farmers
* I   _       *                         I
from rWn
BeneficiariesL--g-g                              3 C-
---------   Loans                                                                   Government
-  * --*---3   Deposits                                                                  Guarantee
_---------- >   rtuarantees                                                                                                                                           _



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KiNGDOM OF MOROCCO
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Organization Chart
rectives
Royales
G O V E R N M E N T                                                                          I-- -------------  Jan. 1987
MINISTRIES OF                   F I N A N C I A L   I N T E R M E D I A T I O N   S Y S T E M
AGRICULTURE
MARINE   AND AGRARIAN  FINANCE                  ICommercial      Bank-Al             Specialized
FISHERIES   REFORM                     Treasury      Banks        Maghrib              Financial
Institution 
Financial Market and Credit Comnmittee
Foreign Exchange : Interest Rate
Risk Mechanisms  :    Policies
__, _ .CNCA  CIH    BNDE   COG      CM4
CRE D I T  A G R I C O L E      I*                                         
BANQUE UNIVERSELLE           --- --------------------------
Strategy and Policy
making, approval of
budget, supervision                       Board of Directors
and evaluation of                  A
performance, approval
of audited accounts_
*-------CEO
Planining  ~ ~   ~    ~     Cntrol
[-Credit/Portfolio/Recoveries
Deposits/Banking Services
Development/Marketing
Network Management
Other Key Functions at Headquarters                           Finance/Accounting/Treasury
Personnel/Training
I Rea10nal Deleaationsi _      _                      Organization/Methods
C R C A / C L C A Branch Office Network                      EDP/Automation
Ioverseas
I_ Ineral Services/Legal
Markets/Farm and Non-Farm Clientele
| Markets/Farm and Non-Farm Clientele  



IBRD 20960
MOROCCO                                                                                                        6'
MAROC                                                                                                  Tonger  £
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                                                   MUM eI
PROJET NATIONAL DE CREDIT AGRICOLE                                                                                                                                             AeagNr
BRANCH NETWORK OF THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT BANK                                                                             Lro              ChAchSo                                                             No
RESEAU DE LA CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE                                                                                Iretee A    Chec aoen
K., el dKbide                           To,iuf rC 
CNCA NETWORK                                                                                                                           ; 'AW-1.1-lKiin                               DriocgOu
RESEALJ DE LA CNCA                                                                                                                    B      Ju..neen
3    HEADQUARTERS                                                                                                       Sk *I Abcod                      t    Rodfle  A T 0Aw0I                                                       5
^  CRCA(46)                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ElAlce,, ou)C  A  T  4 t
CLCA(IIS3)                                                                                                                                               reB                                                  rA G RI
BANKING SERVICES (SB BRANCHES):                                                                                                                            S.A Moh. du                                                        Alc n           A G RI
SERVICES dANCAIRES (58 AGENCES)A   Sidi Sli-  * °Tise                                                                                                                           A0 Tr °c
CRCA(46)                                                                                                       S*ARir                      *Sidi Koeemr,                          01Taze                                                                    340
RLCA(12)                                                                                                                Kenitrh          AO,Fs                         .eeoNon
OTHER OUTLETS (163) (NOT SHOWN ON MAP)                                                                        AT          C                      MeueR
AUTRES GUICHETS (163) (NON INDIOUES SUR LA CARTE)                                                       T.mro                TiS  A 5knes
SOHYE^trRIE                                                       ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Molbommete t unh          Ith se            ElI  SHoeu
PLUVIOMETRIE                                                                                           ,Sgg,Ic                      KhbemissetR        Hj.b
ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS                                                                       0             OR Bn Slimon,,
ISOHYETErS EN MILLIMETRES                                                         Casablanca           &A                                                  lfronc
AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFALL                                                                      Rt                                           OUImu,   A   0
MOYENNE ANNUELLE DES PRECIPITA lONS:                                                                                                                  oA                                   dIete? Ouled *I He(
600.t0                                                         El Jadid     Sonoroc jI                 L  Gore
200-400                                                                                                    0nd                                                                      M    r
0-200  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ie u DldAASottot t9p.. Elder,, 
@     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                  HadEdA AOu0dFri.               9o          QiKh    *        o                                                                                                                /
CAPIrAL DErAT                                                                                       Khouribga r      A     d 2em Keeifrfa                                                                                    I
PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                         6h ftoid  J.K. Rho.   JIg X1,,bG
CHEFLEUX DES PROVINCES                              Khom4i do Zemeoc     xo1 Rm (oDri
0    OTHER TOWNS                                                         00                      Skhe  Ruhemn           Ak           1Z h
AUTRES VILLES                                                                           a                El hoei )        b  S
RIVERS                                                                                                                        Be 4pmeo Sha,m  A   Buni Melia[                          ToIg,,
INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIES                            Sagfi0                             %8fRtb1,B SeE*                                                                   0                                                                      FiguEIQ ®g
PRONnERES D' ErAT                                                                      a            A      a
Ch,,,,,el                          OA                       0O,,meeiurt                                                                                                                      32'_
__   INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARY (APPROXIMATE)                                      CO       iE KelCl  desg Srerhn, ®    ?                                                                                                             _ LA              _     _ e,
FRONTIERE DETAr (APPROXIMATIVE)                                                                                     0 K  dAzilol                                        ,gFrehidi(1
Sidi bo Oth-.,,           *OAn..oou tI.h ChebL                                                                                       3
Moor,ke ,              DA,noctu
*.ssaouira    Chizhcoue                  0 h   GAit Ouir
§)2SELitFooui6crooe,er,                                                        0Jc.Ie eo  urde                            rT;ou
OTohonoouto                        o8"-9-11  du Dod.                           
*        AelIgmieO
BA                                                                                .
Ouorzozoae0                                                                                  5
&A  Toroudonnet                                                                                                                         -
Agodir    OAO 16Ulod T.!o 
°e  Mallwl                                                                          ZRreHtro                              O
30'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30r
l Tiznit                            TaRe                                                                                        T
0                                                                                                   d
B°Goulimine                                                                                                                                                       KLMTR
A 0 ev                                                                                          A L G E R I A                                     o 0              Slo    M   IER'      o  ISO
O r      2o             so nA 1n0
10  |   B° -o                                                                                   4-                                                2-
NOVEMBER 1988



