Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3088 MOR
              (National Agricultural Credit Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
               NATIONAL BANK FOR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
                        Dated July 21, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3088 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 21, 1989 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and NATIONAL BANK FOR
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS  (A)  Kingdom  of  Morocco  (the  Guarantor)  and the
Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority
of the Project described  in  Schedule  2  to this Agreement, have
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
     (C)  the Borrower  intends  to  contract  from other external
sources of funds (the  Cofinanciers)  loans  (the Cofinance) in an
aggregate  amount  equivalent  to  about  $298,000,000  dollars to
Page  2
assist  in  financing  part  of  the  Project  on  the  terms  and
conditions  to  be  set   forth  in  agreements  (the  Cofinancing
Agreements) to  be  entered  into  between  the  Borrower  and the
Cofinanciers; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Beneficiary" means a farmer,  a household, a fisherman,
an artisan or an enterprise to which the Borrower proposes to make
or has made a Sub-loan;
     (b)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made  or  proposed to be made by
the Borrower  out  of  part  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan to a
Beneficiary for an Investment Project;
     (c)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means  a  Sub-loan, as so defined,
which  qualifies  as  a   free-limit   Sub-loan  pursuant  to  the
provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
     (d)  "Investment  Project"  means  any  on-farm  or  forestry
investment or other investment project under Part A of the Project
to be carried out  by  a  Beneficiary  utilizing the proceeds of a
Sub-loan;
     (e)  "CLCA" means any local branch of the Borrower;
     (f)  "Borrower's  Legislation"  means   the  Guarantor's  Law
(Dahir) No. 1-60-106 dated  December  4, 1961, and Decree (Dåcret)
No.  2-61-607  dated  December  4,  1961,  pursuant  to  which the
Borrower  has  been   established   and   is  operating;  and  the
Guarantor's Laws (Dahir) No.  1-59-271  dated  April 14, 1960, and
No. 1-61-402 dated  June  30,  1962,  and  Decision (Arr§tå) dated
November  16,  1984,  of  the  Guarantor's  Ministry  of  Finance,
governing the Guarantor's  financial  control  of the Borrower, as
said Laws, Decree and Decision may be amended from time to time;
     (g)  "Statement of Development Policy" means the statement of
the Borrower's medium-term development  policy  dated May 5, 1989,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (h)  "Credit   Policy   Guidelines"   means   the  guidelines
regulating the provision of credit  by the Borrower, dated January
1989, as the same may be amended from time to time;
     (i)  "Action Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  1989-1993 plan of
actions, set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
for the development and strengthening of its operations;
     (j)  "Foreign Exchange Risk Coverage Scheme" means the scheme
established pursuant to the letter  No.  3/3789 dated May 9, 1989,
from the Guarantor's Minister of  Finance to the Borrower, for the
protection of the Borrower  against  the  risk of foreign exchange
losses;
Page  3
     (k)  "Dirham" and "DH" mean the currency of the Guarantor;
     (l)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (m)  "Bank  of  Morocco"  means   the  central  bank  of  the
Guarantor (Bank al Maghrib), established and operating pursuant to
the Guarantor's Laws (Dahir) No. 1-59-233 dated June 30, 1959, and
No. 1-61-258 dated  December  30,  1961,  as  amended from time to
time.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to one
hundred ninety million dollars ($190,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for:  (i)  amounts paid (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to  be  paid)  by  the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by a  Beneficiary  under  a  Sub-loan to meet the
reasonable cost of goods and  services required for the Investment
Project in respect of which  the  withdrawal from the Loan Account
is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect  of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for Part C  of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement and to be  financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the  purposes of the Project, open
and maintain a  special  account  in  a  currency  and a financial
institution,  both  satisfactory  to   the   Bank,  on  terms  and
conditions satisfactory to the  Bank.  Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account  shall  be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
        (i)   "Interest  Period"   means   the   six-month  period
              commencing on each date specified in Section 2.06 of
              this Agreement,  including  the  Interest  Period in
              which this Agreement is signed.
       (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the
              outstanding borrowings of the  Bank drawn down after
              June 30, 1982, expressed  as a percentage per annum,
              as reasonably determined by the Bank.
Page  4
      (iii)   "Semester" means the first  six months or the second
              six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
             Execution of the Project, Management and
                    Operations of the Borrower
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  the Project and
conduct  its  operations  and   affairs  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency and in conformity  with appropriate banking, financial,
economic, technical and  administrative  practices, with qualified
management and staff in  adequate  numbers, and in accordance with
the Borrower's  Legislation,  Statement  of  Policy, Credit Policy
Guidelines and the  Action  Plan,  and  shall provide, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the purposes.
     Section 3.02. Without limitation on the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  make Sub-loans to  Beneficiaries for Investment Projects
on the basis of the  criteria, procedures and terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in Schedule 7 to this Agreement;
     (b)  supervise, monitor  and  evaluate  the  carrying  out by
Beneficiaries  of   their   respective   Investment   Projects  in
accordance with policies  and  procedures  acceptable to the Bank;
and
     (c)  exercise  its  rights  in  relation  to  each Investment
Project in such manner  as  to:  (i)  protect the interests of the
Bank and of the Borrower;  (ii)  comply with its obligations under
this Agreement; and (iii) achieve  the  purposes  of Part A of the
Project.
     Section 3.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part C of the Project  and  to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed  by  the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts  (including  without  limitation,  separate  records  and
accounts for the  CLCAs)  adequate  to  reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
        (i)   have its records,  accounts and financial statements
              (balance sheets, statements  of  income and expenses
              and related statements) and the records and accounts
              for  the  Special  Account   for  each  fiscal  year
              audited,  in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
              principles  consistently   applied,  by  independent
              auditors acceptable to the Bank;
       (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
Page  5
              case not later than six months after the end of each
              such year:  (A)  certified  copies  of its financial
              statements for such year as  so audited, and (B) the
              report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
              and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
              requested; and
      (iii)   furnish  to   the   Bank   such   other  information
              concerning  said  records,  accounts  and  financial
              statements as well as the  audit thereof as the Bank
              shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
        (i)   maintain, in accordance  with  paragraph (a) of this
              Section,  records   and   accounts  reflecting  such
              expenditures;
       (ii)   retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
      (iii)   enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
              records; and
       (iv)   ensure that such  records  and accounts are included
              in the annual audit referred  to in paragraph (b) of
              this Section  and  that  the  report  of  such audit
              contains a separate opinion  by  said auditors as to
              whether  the  statements  of  expenditure  submitted
              during  such   fiscal   year,   together   with  the
              procedures and internal  controls  involved in their
              preparation,  can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
              related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. Except  as  the  Bank  may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
     (a)  utilize all amounts received  by the Borrower in payment
of interest or other charges  on, or repayment of principal under,
Sub-loans (other than  Sub-loans  made  under  Part  A  (3) of the
Project), to the extent  they  are  not  yet  required to meet the
Borrower's payment obligations to  the  Bank under this Agreement,
exclusively to finance the  further development of the Guarantor's
agricultural and rural sectors  in  accordance with the Borrower's
Credit Policy Guidelines;
     (b)  maintain procedures satisfactory  to  the Bank to enable
the Borrower properly to monitor the Borrower's utilization of the
amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
     (c)  furnish  to  the  Bank  at  regular  intervals  all such
information as  the  Bank  may  reasonably  request concerning the
utilization of said amounts.
     Section  4.03.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  take  such actions
satisfactory to the Bank as  shall  be necessary to protect itself
against the risk of loss  resulting  from  changes in the rates of
exchange between the  currencies  (including  Dirhams) used in its
operations.
     (b)  Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, and  except  as  the  Bank  may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall at  all  times  maintain  its  participation in the
Foreign Exchange  Risk  Coverage  Scheme  in  accordance  with the
requirements thereof.
Page  6
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) earn,  for  each of its fiscal years after
its fiscal year ending on  December  31, 1988, an annual return on
equity of not less than the  rate  of change of the Producer Price
Index during such year; (ii)  ensure  that the CLCAs shall produce
in the aggregate for each of the Borrower's fiscal years after its
fiscal year ending on December 31, 1988, total revenues equivalent
to not  less  than  the  sum  of  the  CLCAs'  (A) total operating
expenses and (B) total debt service requirements; (iii) maintain a
ratio of equity to risk assets  of not less than 8%; (iv) maintain
a ratio of current assets to  current liabilities of not less than
1.2 to 1; and  (v)  without  limitation  on the provisions of sub-
paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii) and  (iv) hereof, ensure that weighted
average of all rates  at  which  interest  and other fees on loans
made by the Borrower  are  charged  during  each of the Borrower's
fiscal years shall be equal to at  least the rate of change of the
Producer Price Index.
     (b) Before June 30 in each  of its fiscal years, the Borrower
shall, on the  basis  of  forecasts  prepared  by the Borrower and
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review  whether  it  would  meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section in respect
of such year and the next  following fiscal year and shall furnish
to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that  the Borrower would not
meet any of the requirements  set  forth  in paragraph (a) of this
Section, for the Borrower's  fiscal  years covered by such review,
the  Borrower  shall  promptly  take  all  measures  as  shall  be
necessary (including, without  limitation, submission of proposals
for approval by the Guarantor to adjust the structure or levels of
its interest rates and other  financial  charges) in order to meet
such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
        (i)   The annual return on  equity  shall be calculated by
              dividing the Borrower's net operating income for the
              fiscal year in question  by the Borrower's equity at
              the beginning of that fiscal year.
       (ii)   The  term   "net   operating   income"  means  total
              operating revenues less total operating expenses.
      (iii)   the term "total  operating  revenues" means revenues
              from all sources related to operations.
       (iv)   The  term  "total   operating  expenses"  means  all
              expenses related  to  operations, including interest
              and other charges  on debt, administration, adequate
              maintenance, taxes and  payments  in  lieu of taxes,
              and  provisions  for   losses   on   loans  and  for
              depreciation on a basis  and  at rates acceptable to
              the Bank.
        (v)   The  term  "equity"  means  the  sum  of  the  total
              unimpaired paid-up  capital,  retained  earnings and
              reserves of  the  Borrower  not  allocated  to cover
              specific liabilities.
       (vi)   The   term   "Producer   Price   Index"   means  the
              Guarantor's producer  price  index  published in the
              annual report of the Bank of Morocco.
      (vii)   The term "total  revenues"  means  the  sum of total
              operating revenues and net non-operating income.
     (viii)   The  term  "net   non-operating  income"  means  the
              difference between:
              (A)  revenues  from  all  sources  other  than those
              related to operations; and
Page  7
              (B) expenses, including  taxes  and payments in lieu
              of taxes, incurred in  the generation of revenues in
              (A) above.
       (ix)   The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means  the
              aggregate amount  of  repayments  (including sinking
              fund payments, if  any)  of,  and interest and other
              charges on, debt.
        (x)   The  term  "risk  assets"  means  the  total  amount
              outstanding from time to  time  of all loans made by
              the Borrower and discounted bills.
       (xi)   The term  "current  assets"  means  cash, all assets
              which could in  the  ordinary  course of business be
              converted into cash  within twelve months, including
              accounts    receivable,    marketable    securities,
              inventories   and    pre-paid    expenses   properly
              chargeable to  operating  expenses  within  the next
              fiscal year.
      (xii)   The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities
              which will become  due  and  payable  or could under
              circumstances then  existing  be  called for payment
              within twelve  months,  including  accounts payable,
              customer  advances,  debt  service  requirements and
              taxes and payments in lieu of taxes.
     (xiii)   Whenever for the purposes  of  this Section it shall
              be necessary to value  in  terms  of the currency of
              the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
              such valuation shall  be  made  on  the basis of the
              prevailing lawful  rate  of  exchange  at which such
              other currency is,  at  the  time of such valuation,
              obtainable for the purposes  of servicing such debt,
              or, in the absence of  such  rate, on the basis of a
              rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.05. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any  debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the ratio of debt to  equity shall be greater than 10 to
1.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
        (i)   The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of  the
              Borrower maturing by  its  terms  more than eighteen
              months after  the  date  on  which  it is originally
              incurred.
       (ii)   Debt shall be  deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
              loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other  instrument
              providing for such debt  or  for the modification of
              its terms of payment on the date, and to the extent,
              the  amount  of  such  debt  has  become outstanding
              pursuant to such  contract, agreement or instrument;
              and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
              agreement  providing  for  such  guarantee  has been
              entered  into  but  only  to  the  extent  that  the
              guaranteed debt is outstanding.
      (iii)   The  term  "equity"  means  the  sum  of  the  total
              unimpaired paid-up  capital,  retained  earnings and
              reserves of  the  Borrower  not  allocated  to cover
              specific liabilities.
       (iv)   Whenever for the purposes  of  this Section it shall
              be necessary to value,  in  terms of the currency of
              the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
              such valuation shall  be  made  on  the basis of the
              prevailing lawful  rate  of  exchange  at which such
Page  8
              other currency is,  at  the  time of such valuation,
              obtainable for the purposes  of servicing such debt,
              or in the absence of  such  rate,  on the basis of a
              rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.06. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall provide no financing to a beneficiary if, after
the provision of such financing, the aggregate principal amount of
all financing then outstanding  provided  by  the Borrower to such
beneficiary would exceed 20% of the Borrower's equity.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
        (i)   The term "financing" means  a loan or guarantee made
              to, or equity investment made in, a beneficiary.
       (ii)   The term "equity" means  the sum of unimpaired paid-
              up capital, reserves not allocated to cover specific
              liabilities and retained earnings.
     Section 4.07. The Borrower shall  at all times apply policies
and procedures, satisfactory to  the  Bank,  for the allocation of
adequate amounts to provisions  for  losses  on  loans made by the
Borrower,  in  accordance  with  sound  accounting  and  financial
practices.
     Section 4.08.  The  provisions  of  Sections  4.03, 4.05 (a),
4.09 and 4.11  of  the  Loan  Agreement  between  the Bank and the
Borrower dated September 17, 1986, for a Sixth Agricultural Credit
Project (Loan No. 2731  MOR)  are  hereby  amended  to read as set
forth in Sections 4.05, 4.04 (a) (i), 4.06 and 4.03, respectively,
of this Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Borrower's Legislation or the Statement of Policy or
the Credit Policy Guidelines  shall  have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed  or  waived  so  as  to  affect materially and
adversely  the  operations  or  the  financial  condition  of  the
Borrower or its ability to carry out the Project or to perform any
of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (b)  The Cofinancing Agreements  shall  have failed to become
effective by June 30, 1990,  or  such  later  date as the Bank may
agree; provided, however,  that  the  provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that adequate funds for  the Project are available to the
Borrower from other  sources  on  terms  and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     (c)  (i) Subject to sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph:
              (A)  the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                   proceeds of the Cofinance or of any other grant
                   or loan  made  to  or  for  the  benefit of the
                   Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                   have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                   whole or in part, pursuant  to the terms of the
                   agreement providing therefor; or
               (B)  any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due  and
                    payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
       (ii)    Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that:
Page  9
               (A)  such suspension,  cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not  caused  by  the failure of
                    the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                    under such agreement; and
               (B)  adequate funds for  the  Project are available
                    to the Borrower  from  other  sources on terms
                    and conditions consistent with the obligations
                    of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified  in  paragraph  (a)  of Section 5.01
shall occur; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph  (c) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this  Agreement  shall  occur,  subject  to the proviso of
paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
     Section 6.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Chief Executive  Officer of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Caisse Nationale de Crådit Agricole
          24 rue d'Alger
          Rabat
          Kingdom of Morocco
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               CREDIAGRICOLE                     31657M
               Rabat, Morocco                    32956M
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in  the city of Rabat, Kingdom of
Morocco, as of the day and year first above written.
Page  10
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ B. Conable
                                                         President
                    NATIONAL BANK FOR AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
                    By /s/ R. Haddaoui
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
   (1)  Sub-loans under
        Part A (1) of
        the Project to
        farmers and
        enterprises:
        (a) for greenhouses     30,000,000     75% of amounts paid
                                               by the Borrower
        (b) for other           86,000,000     25% of amounts paid
            investments                        by the Borrower
   (2)  Sub-loans under         15,000,000     50% of amounts paid
        Part A (2) of                          by the Borrower
        the Project to
        agro-processing and
        wood-processing
        enterprises
   (3)  Sub-loans under         20,000,000     100% of amounts
        Part A (3) of                          paid by the
        the Project to                         Borrower
        agro-processing
        enterprises
   (4)  Sub-loans under         10,000,000     33% of amounts paid
        Part A (4) of                          by the Borrower
        the Project to
        rural households
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
   (5)  Sub-loans under         20,000,000     20% of amounts paid
        Part A (5) of                          by the Borrower
        the Project to
        fishermen
   (6)  Sub-loans under          2,000,000     25% of amounts paid
Page  11
        Part A (6) of                          by the Borrower
        the Project to
        artisans and
        rural enterprises
   (7)  Goods for Part C (1)     4,600,000     100% of foreign
        of the Project                         expenditures
                                               and 80% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items
                                               procured locally
   (8)  Consultants' ser-        1,000,000     100%
        vices, training
        and fellowships
        for Part C (1) of
        the Project
  (9)   Civil works for          1,400,000     47%
        Part C (2) of
        the Project
        TOTAL                    190,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a) payments made for expenditures  prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $19,000,000, may be made on account of
payments made for expenditures before  that date but after October
1, 1988; and
     (b)  Sub-loans under Part A (3) of the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of  the  Loan allocated to Category (3) unless
the Borrower shall have  established  and communicated to the Bank
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank upon which such Sub-
loans shall be made.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (1) assist the Borrower
in the financing of  such  productive  facilities and resources as
will   contribute   to   the   development   of   the  Guarantor's
agricultural, rural and  fishing  sectors;  and (2) strengthen and
expand  the  Borrower's   banking   operations  and  institutional
capabilities.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     The financing,  through  the  provision  of  Sub-loans by the
Borrower to:
(1)  farmers and enterprises, of on-farm and forestry investments;
Page  12
(2)  agro-processing   and    wood-processing    enterprises,   of
investment projects to construct and equip production, processing,
packing  and  storage  facilities   and  to  expand,  upgrade  and
rehabilitate the product mix of such facilities;
(3)  agro-processing enterprises of investment projects to provide
imported  inputs  to  be  utilized  by  such  enterprises  in  the
production of goods for export;
(4)  rural  households,  of   investment   projects  to  construct
dwellings for such households;
(5)  fishermen, of investment  projects  to  improve their fishing
operations; and
(6)  artisans and enterprises, of investment projects to:
     (a) develop, upgrade and  expand  the production of artisanal
goods and the provision  of  commercial  services required for the
proper development of the rural sector; and
     (b) upgrade the environment of the rural sector.
Part B:
     The operation of a credit facility to finance the purchase by
farmers of land for agricultural production.
Part C:
(1)  The carrying out of  a  program  to enhance the institutional
capabilities of the Borrower, including the:
     (a)  strengthening  of   the   Borrower's   organization  and
operations;
     (b)  strengthening of  the  Borrower's  planning capabilities
through the  establishment  and  staffing  of  a suitable planning
unit;
     (c)  upgrading and further development of the Borrower's data
processing, management  information  and  accounting  systems, and
provision and maintenance  of  computer  hardware and software and
other equipment required therefor;
     (d)  development and introduction of (i) suitable strategies,
policies  and  procedures  for  the  expansion  of  the Borrower's
banking  operations;  (ii)  new  lending  instruments  and banking
services in accordance with said strategies and policies; and
     (e)  carrying out of  a  training  program  to strengthen the
skills of staff of the  Borrower  in planning, human resources and
financial management,  accounting,  marketing, banking operations,
data  processing,  project  appraisal  and  evaluation  (including
environmental impact assessments  of  projects);  and provision of
equipment and materials required for said program.
(2)  The carrying  out  of  the  Borrower's  1989-1992  program of
construction and upgrading of  branch offices and other facilities
of the Borrower so as to  improve  the access of farmers and other
beneficiaries to the Borrower's banking facilities.
                         *    *     *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                        Payment of Principal
Page  13
Date Payment Due                       (expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 1994                               3,490,000
May 15, 1995                                    3,620,000
November 15, 1995                               3,760,000
May 15, 1996                                    3,905,000
November 15, 1996                               4,055,000
May 15, 1997                                    4,210,000
November 15, 1997                               4,370,000
May 15, 1998                                    4,535,000
November 15, 1998                               4,710,000
May 15, 1999                                    4,890,000
November 15, 1999                               5,075,000
May 15, 2000                                    5,270,000
November 15, 2000                               5,475,000
May 15, 2001                                    5,680,000
November 15, 2001                               5,900,000
May 15, 2002                                    6,125,000
November 15, 2002                               6,360,000
May 15, 2003                                    6,600,000
November 15, 2003                               6,855,000
May 15, 2004                                    7,115,000
November 15, 2004                               7,390,000
May 15, 2005                                    7,670,000
November 15, 2005                               7,965,000
May 15, 2006                                    8,270,000
November 15, 2006                               8,585,000
May 15, 2007                                    8,915,000
November, 15 2007                               9,255,000
May 15, 2008                                    9,610,000
November 15, 2008                               9,980,000
May 15, 2009                                   10,360,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to the Loan  on the day
                                           of           prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                       0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                      0.90
     more than eighteen years
Page  14
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                      1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods manufactured in the Guarantor's
territory may be  granted  a  margin  of  preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local competitive bidding:
     Works under Part C  (2)  of  the Project for the construction
and upgrading of branches offices  may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Shopping:
     Contracts for computer software for the Borrower's management
information system, for goods  for the Borrower's training program
and for maintenance  of  computer  equipment,  up  to an aggregate
amount of $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of  price  quotations  solicited from at least
three suppliers eligible under  the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of  $700,000  or  more,  and each contract for
works estimated to cost  the  equivalent  of $700,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Bank prior  to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Page  15
     (c)   The provisions of the  preceding sub-paragraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2. The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded to consultants:  (1)  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (2) who shall  be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by The World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                            Action Plan
1.   In order to ensure the proper  carrying  out of Part C of the
Project,  and  except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, the
Borrower shall:
     (a)  strengthen its organization under Part  C (1) (a) of the
Project in accordance with  an organizational plan satisfactory to
the Bank;
     (b)  (i) establish the planning unit  under Part C (1) (b) of
the Project, with organization,  terms  of reference, staffing and
other resources satisfactory  to  the  Bank;  and (ii) ensure that
said unit is operational not later than June 30, 1990; and
     (c)  prepare  and  furnish  to   the   Bank  not  later  than
October 31, of each of  the  Borrower's fiscal years (i) an action
plan, in form  and  substance  satisfactory  to  the Bank, for the
carrying out during  the  following  year  of the activities under
Parts C (1) (c), C (1) (d) and C (1) (e) of the Project and (ii) a
work program, in form and  substance  satisfactory to the Bank for
the carrying out during the following year of the activities under
Part C (2) of the Project;  and promptly carry out said activities
in accordance with said action plan and work program.
2.   In  order  to  promote  the  utilization  by  agro-processing
enterprises of credit  facilities  made  available by the Borrower
for investments, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  establish  within  each   of   the  Borrower's  regional
branches in Marrakech  and  Kenitra,  not  later than December 31,
1989, and thereafter at all  times  maintain, a unit with terms of
reference, staffing and other  resources  satisfactory to the Bank
to be responsible for the  marketing  of such credit facilities in
said areas;
     (b)  continue at all  times  to  maintain  within each of the
Borrower's regional branches in  Meknes,  Casablanca and Agadir, a
unit  with  terms  of  reference,  staffing  and  other  resources
satisfactory to the Bank, to  be  responsible for the marketing of
such credit facilities in said areas; and
     (c)  ensure that  the  staff  of  the  units  referred  to in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of  this Section shall receive the training
in environmental impact assessment  provided  under Part C (1) (e)
of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
Page  16
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $15,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and   other   evidence    required   pursuant   to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
Page  17
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the   Loan   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an  amount  not  eligible  pursuant  to  paragraph 2 of this
Schedule or (ii) was  not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 7
                Criteria, Procedures and Principal
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
     Except as the Bank and  the Borrower may otherwise agree, the
criteria, procedures and terms  and  conditions  set forth in this
Schedule shall apply for the purposes  of Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement.
1.   Each Sub-loan shall be made only:
     (a)  to  a  Beneficiary  which  shall  have  established  its
creditworthiness to the satisfaction of the Borrower in accordance
with  the  Credit  Policy  Guidelines  and  additional  guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank; and
     (b)  for an Investment Project which  (i) is determined to be
technically, economically,  financially  and commercially feasible
including, on the basis, inter  alia,  of the existence of markets
for its output and (ii) in the case of an Investment Project to be
carried out by  an  agro-processing  or wood-processing enterprise
under Part A (2) of  the  Project,  is designed in accordance with
Page  18
appropriate   safety,    health    and   environmental   standards
satisfactory to the Bank, all as  shall be determined on the basis
of an appraisal carried out  in  accordance with the Credit Policy
Guidelines and further guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   No  expenditures  for  goods  or  services  required  for  an
Investment Project shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a  free-limit  Sub-loan   for   which   the  Bank  has  authorized
withdrawals from the  Loan  Account.    For  the  purposes of this
Agreement, the term "free-limit Sub-loan" shall mean: (i) any Sub-
loan for an Investment Project under Part A (1), A (3), A (4) or A
(6) of the Project, regardless of the amount thereof; and (ii) any
Sub-loan for an Investment Project  under  Part  A (2) or A (5) of
the Project in an  amount  not  exceeding  the sum of DH10,000,000
equivalent, when added to  any  other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out  of  the proceeds of the Loan which
have been or are being  used  for financing goods and services for
such Investment Project,  the  foregoing  amount  being subject to
change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
3.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval,  the Borrower shall furnish to the
Bank an application, in  form  satisfactory  to the Bank, together
with: (i) a description  of  the  Beneficiary and the appraisal of
the Investment  Project  and  a  description  of  the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the
proposed terms  and  conditions  of  the  Sub-loan,  including the
schedule of amortization  of  the  Sub-loan;  and (iii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by the  Borrower  for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain such  information  as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
4.   Sub-loans shall be made on the terms and conditions set forth
in  the  Credit   Policy   Guidelines  and  additional  guidelines
satisfactory to the Bank and  on the following principal terms and
conditions. The Borrower shall  obtain,  by written contract or by
other appropriate  legal  means,  rights  adequate  to protect the
interests  of  the  Bank   and   the  Borrower,  including,  where
applicable:
     (a)  that each Beneficiary shall  undertake to: (i) carry out
and  operate  the  Investment   Project  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency and in accordance  with  appropriate safety, health and
environmental standards satisfactory to  the  Bank, and with sound
technical,  financial  and  managerial  standards  and  practices,
provide promptly,  as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities  and other
resources required for the purposes and maintain adequate records;
(ii) procure the goods  and  services  to  be  financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan  at  a  reasonable price, account being taken
also of  other  relevant  factors  such  as  time  of delivery and
efficiency  and  reliability  of  the  goods  and  availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts  therefor, and, in the case
of services, of their  quality  and  the competence of the parties
rendering them, and use such goods and services exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment  Project; (iii) enable the Bank and
the Borrower to inspect  such  goods  and the sites, works, plants
and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) take out and
maintain with responsible  insurers  such  insurance, against such
risks and in  such  amounts,  as  shall  be  consistent with sound
business practice, including without  limitation such insurance to
cover hazards  incident  to  the  acquisition,  transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of  the proceeds of the Loan to the
Page  19
place of use or installation,  any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely  usable by the Beneficiary to replace
or repair such goods; and (v)  prepare and promptly furnish to the
Borrower, for forwarding to the Bank  if so requested by the Bank,
all such information as the  Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably
request relating  to  the  foregoing  and  to  the administration,
operations and financial condition  of  the Beneficiary and to the
benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
     (b)  provisions  to  ensure  the  right  of  the  Borrower to
suspend or terminate the right  of  the  Beneficiary to the use of
the proceeds of the Sub-loan  upon  failure by such Beneficiary to
perform its obligations under its agreement providing for the Sub-
loan.
