Report No. PID8015
Project Name                     Tanzania-Tax Administration Program
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       TZPA47761
Borrower                         Government of the United Republic of
Tanzania
Implementing Agency              Tanzania Revenue Authority;
Ministry of Finance,
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Date of Initial PID              November 1996
Date This PID Prepared           July 1999
Environmental Category           C
Project Appraisal Date           November 1998
Board Approval Date              March 30, 1999
Background
1.      Tanzania's macroeconomic performance during the past decade has been
uneven. Growth, driven largely by recovery in agriculture, has averaged close
to 4 percent per annum, but inflation has been high and, since 1992, the
increase in budgetary deficits has made it even more difficult to achieve
stability. After declining in the second half of the 1980s, the incidence of
poverty stabilized in the early 1990s with about 53 percent of the population
still below the poverty line. This indicates that the first round of
liberalization and adjustment launched in 1986 must now be pushed to the next
stage. To raise growth in excess of 4 percent, keep inflation at single digit
levels and reduce the level of poverty calls for a second generation of
reforms that continue and extend efforts to improve fiscal management,
liberalize the economy and privatize financial sector institutions and
parastatals.
2.      Since 1995, Government has engaged with the Bank in a dialogue to
introduce far reaching policy measures. The Government's resolve has been
reflected in the approval of an ESAF program (November 1996) and a SAC (July
1997).
Project Objectives
3.      Strengthening of revenue collection is central to macro stabilization in
Tanzania. The Government of Tanzania established the Tanzania Revenue
Authority (TRA) in 1996 with the objective of improving revenue collection.
The World Bank is supporting the Government's program through the Tax
Administration project (TAP), whose principal objective is to support the TRA
in increasing revenues accruing to Government, without increasing tax rates
by:
Improving the Legal Framework



Broadening the Tax Base;
Strengthening the TRA to increase efficiency and effectiveness of tax
administration; and
Improving the Administrative Infrastructure.
Project Description
4.      Initial support has been provided to the TRA through an IDF grant for
the establishment of the organization, and by USAID, DANIDA and DFID
assistance. This has been primarily directed at improving management, human
resource development and financial systems. Under the integrated program as
developed, support is to be provided through the medium term to develop modern
management and operations systems for the three Revenue Departments and other
supporting departments (the Tax Audit and Investigations Department,
Information Technology Department, Internal Audit Department, Legal
Department, Research Policy Unit and the Public Relations /Taxpayers Education
Unit ). Reform of the customs administration is at the heart of the project.
Support will be provided under the project for capacity building/institutional
development; provision of infrastructure and equipment to TRA tax offices and
customs facilities throughout Tanzania; training; computerization; support to
public awareness/education programs; and support to review/amend laws and
regulations.
5.      The project will cover the entire country and there is close
coordination with the Ministry of Finance, the private sector (business
community, academia and chambers of commerce) and the donor community.
Several donors (DANIDA, DFID, EU, FINIDA, and SIDA) are also supporting the
program.
Project Financing
6.      Project costs (including contingencies) are $70.2 million, of which,
US$40 million is contributed by IDA, US$ 7 million by Government and the
remaining US$23.2 million by the donors.
Project Implementation
7.      The program will be implemented by the TRA. A Project Implementation
Unit, reporting directly to the Commissioner General, has been established to
facilitate program implementation.
Sustainability
8.      Sustainability is evidenced by the fact that TRA has been responsible
for the program design and preparation. By supporting a comprehensive tax and
customs administration reform, the project will help the Government establish
a sustainably higher and more predictable level of revenues. The strong
institution-building component of the project is aimed at ensuring
sustainability over the medium term; Government commitment to on-going
strengthening is necessary for long-term sustainability.
Lessons learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
9.      This is the first operation to support tax administration in Tanzania.
Lessons learned from other tax administration projects which are reflected in
- 2 -



the project design include: (i) need for political commitment to the reform
and active support for its implementation; (ii) appropriate emphasis on
organization, business process, human resource selection, pay and training
issues and avoidance of over-emphasis on information technology; (iii)
competent leadership in implementation and close supervision by Government;
(iv) focus on voluntary compliance through improvements in legal framework,
administration and quality of services, and fair grievance redressal; and (v)
mechanisms to ensure transparency and accountability of tax administration
such taxpayer registration number prioritization of assessment, investigation
and collection activities, and an effective public relations campaign to
educate taxpayers regarding their legal obligations.
Poverty Category
10.     The project will have a bearing on poverty alleviation, but this is not
among the Program of Targeted Interventions.
Environmental Aspects
11.     The TAP is ranked "C" for environmental purposes.
Project Benefits
12.     The major benefits from the project would be: (i) qualitative
improvements in tax administration with respect to transparency, effectiveness
and assistance to taxpayers; (ii) increased tax revenues; (iii) measurable
improvements in control and monitoring compliance.
Project Risks
13.     The critical risks include:   (i) TRA's ability to attract and retain
qualified staff; (ii) weak capacity to coordinate interrelated tasks and
supervise consultants effectively; (iii) incompatible information systems
across revenue departments; and (iv) insufficient counterpart funds.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Rakesh Nangia
Task Manager
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 6, 1999.
- 3 -



