Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3184-TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Tax Administration Project)
between
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 4, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3184-TA 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 4, 1999, between THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower has obtained or intends to obtain from various donors 
(hereinafter called the Financiers) grants and loans to assist in financing the 
Project on the terms and conditions set forth or to be set forth in various agreements 
(hereinafter called the Financing Agreements) entered into or to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Financiers; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through 
December 2, 1997 and with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph 12 is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs 12 through 14 of said Section are accordingly renumbered 
as paragraphs 13 through 15: 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4); set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(c)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower which commences on 
July 1 and ends on June 30 of the following year; 
(d)
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(e)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(f)
“PIP” means the Project implementation plan referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and such term includes any schedules to the PIP; 
(g)
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit to be established pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(h)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(i)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated 
December 20, 1996 and February 26, 1997 between the Borrower and the Association;
(j)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;  
(k)
“TRA” means Tanzania Revenue Authority, a semi-autonomous agency of the 
Borrower established pursuant to the Tanzania Revenue Authority Act, No. 11 of 1995 to 
assess, collect and account for revenue on behalf of the Borrower, administer as well 
as enforce tax laws, provide advice to the Borrower on fiscal policy and the 
administration of such policy and develop an efficient and fair tax regime; and 
Page  3
(l)
“Tanzania Shilling” and “Tsh” mean the currency of the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty eight million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 28,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. Section 2.07. (a) Subject to 
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 
commencing September 15, 2009 and ending March 15, 2039.  Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on March 15, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
Page  4
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the TRA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, and tax administration practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultant services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in Tanzania Shillings 
in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into such account, in an 
amount equivalent to $400,000 to finance the Borrower’s contribution to the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account by January 15, April 15, July 15 and 
October 15 in each year during Project implementation, such amounts as shall be 
required to timely replenish the Project Account back to the amount of the initial 
deposit referred to in paragraph (b) above or such larger amount as may be required to 
cover the estimated amount of expenditures not to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit in the following quarter, or any other amount required for the Project, as 
agreed between the Borrower and the Association in each of the work plans and budgets 
to be established in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (b) and paragraph 
3 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
Page  5
(d)
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project and not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on the said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures of the TRA (including separate records, 
accounts and statements in respect of the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project) and the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project of any other departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts and financial statements referred to 
in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts 
for the Special 
Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports submitted during such 
Page  6
fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, a report (herein referred to as the Project 
Management Report) for such period, which: 
(a)
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period 
covered by said report; and (ii) shows 
separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report; 
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report; and (ii) explains 
variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; 
and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified:
(a)
(i)
subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds made 
available or to 
be made available under any of the Financing 
Agreements or of any other 
grant or loan made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor, or 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed 
maturity thereof; and
(ii)
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
Page  7
(a)
The Borrower has established the PCU with staffing and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association. 
(b)
The Borrower has adopted the PIP in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association and has furnished to the Association a work plan and budget for the 
Project acceptable to the Association for Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2000. 
(c)
The Borrower has furnished to the Association terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association for all consultant services estimated to commence 
within the first year of Project implementation. 
(d)
The Borrower has established the Project Account and deposited therein 
the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement. 
(e)
The Borrower has adopted a time bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for restructuring the TRA. 
(f)
The Borrower has furnished to the Association a time bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the establishment of a common tax claims appeals 
machinery independent of the TRA.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
Telex:
41329
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Page  8
By /s/ Mustafa Nyang’anyi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Praful Patel
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent0
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   6,650,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultant services
   3,900,000
100%
(3)
Training
   2,250,000
100%
(4)
Goods
  10,900,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(5)
Refunding of
   1,400,000
Amounts due pur-
Project Preparation
suant to Section
Advance
2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
   3,500,000
 ___________
TOTAL
  28,600,000
 ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower ; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  9
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association, a special deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  Payments out of 
the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each 
payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the 
amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the Association has determined, based 
on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $ 4,000,000.  Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Page  10
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve revenue 
collection within its territories by: (i) improving the legal framework for tax 
collection and administration; (ii) broadening the tax base within the jurisdiction of 
the Borrower; and (iii) strengthening the capacity of the TRA in order to increase its 
efficiency and effectiveness in tax collection.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improving the Legal Framework 
1.
Updating, amending, consolidating and, where necessary, enacting new laws and 
regulations related to taxes and customs in order to: 
(a)
reflect the socio-economic and other changes that have occurred in the 
territory of the Borrower; 
(b)
rationalize the number of deductions, exemptions and concessions granted 
to tax payers and simplify procedural requirements; 
(c)
increase the level of sanctions provided for in the Borrower’s tax laws 
in order to reduce the incidence of tax evasion; 
(d)
establish a legal and regulatory framework for a Taxpayer Identification 
Number (TIN), including provisions  to ensure that it is used universally and 
consistently; and  
(e)
establish a legal framework for a consolidated tax claim appeals 
machinery independent of the TRA. 
2.
Publishing and distributing the laws referred to in the previous paragraph in 
order to facilitate the work of the TRA in collecting tax revenues and to facilitate 
voluntary compliance by informing tax payers of the relevant legal obligations. 
Part B:
Broadening the Tax Base  
1.
Carrying out surveys by the TRA and other agencies of the Borrower involved in 
tax collection in order to identify potential tax payers and to identify new areas of 
economic activity to be taxed. 
2.
Developing a system for the sharing of information related to tax collection 
between the various agencies of the Borrower. 
3.
Establishment of the TIN, including acquisition of computer hardware and 
software and provision of technical advisory services and staff training.
Page  11
Part C:
Strengthening the Institution 
Strengthening the capacity of the TRA to collect taxes and to administer tax 
revenue (including strengthening its investigation, audit and assessment capabilities) 
through: 
1.
introducing computerized management and operations systems to all TRA 
departments, including acquisition of computer and other equipment and training of 
staff required to operate such equipment; and  
2.
providing training to TRA staff, implementing the salary structure and incentive 
scheme referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement and introducing performance 
contracts.
Part D:
Infrastructure Improvements 
1.
Rehabilitating and refurbishing of offices of the TRA. 
2.
Acquisition of equipment for such offices. 
3.
Construction of a regional TRA office in Arusha.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultant Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: 
(a)
the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 
and August 1996 and September 1997 and January 1999 subject to the modifications 
thereto set forth in Paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and 
(b)
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Page  12
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $ 1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $ 30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $ 100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract procured under national competitive bidding 
procedures or goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultant services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the reference to “Bank Member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultant services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  13
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultant services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The 
short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultant 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association, an implementation plan 
satisfactory to the Association for the Project setting out: (i) the details of all 
procurement and disbursement arrangements; (ii) the performance indicators; and (iii) 
Page  14
such other administrative, financial and organizational arrangements as shall be 
required; and 
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule 
and the procedures set out in the PIP, and shall not, except as the Association may 
otherwise agree, amend or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the 
Association, may adversely and materially affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
For the purposes of coordinating the Project, the Borrower shall establish a 
unit within the TRA with staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association. The PCU shall be responsible for: 
(a)
preparing and updating procurement plans for the Project;  
(b)
coordinating the implementation of the various components of the Project 
in accordance with sound financial management practices, including procurement, 
disbursement, accounting and auditing of accounts; and  
(c)
monitoring the implementation of the Project and preparing progress 
reports.
3.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
not later than February 28 in each year, commencing in the year 2000, 
submit to the Association for its review and comments, a draft annual work plan and 
supporting budget for the Project for the succeeding Fiscal Year;
(b)
not later than March 31 in each such year: (i) review with the 
Association the documents referred to in the preceding paragraph; (ii) identify 
implementation issues and propose appropriate solutions; and (iii) update Project 
timetables and performance indicators; 
(c)
not later than April 30 in such each year, furnish to the Association the 
work plan and budget referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, as such plan and budget 
shall have been revised to the satisfaction of the Association in the course of the 
review referred to in paragraph (b) hereof and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, carry out the Project in the year in question on the basis of the 
said work plan and budget, as so revised; and  
(d)
for the period preceding July 1, 2000, carry out the Project in 
accordance with the work plan and budget referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and 
furnish to the Association by November 30, 2000 a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date;  
(c)
review with the Association, by December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in the preceding subparagraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter;
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and 
furnish to the Association, by May 31, 2002, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Page  15
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(e)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in the preceding subparagraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
5.
The Borrower shall carry out all training, workshops and study tours under the 
Project on the basis of programs, which shall have been approved by the Association on 
a quarterly basis, and which shall , inter alia, identify (a) the training, workshops 
and study tours envisaged, (b) the personnel to be trained, (c) the institution which 
will conduct the training, (d) the duration of the proposed training and (e) an 
estimate of the cost.
6.
The Borrower shall submit to its Parliament for approval: 
(a)
by December 31, 1999, the draft laws required under Part A.1 (b) of the 
Project; and 
(b)
by April 30, 2001, the draft laws required under Parts A.1 (a), (c), (d) 
and (e) of the Project. 
7.
The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1999 or such other date as may be agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Association, adopt and implement a duty drawback 
system satisfactory to the Association. 
