                                  Documentof
                               The World Bank




                                                     ReportNo.: 29260




              PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENTREPORT

                                  S R I LANKA

            NATIONAL IRRIGATIONREHABILITATION PROJECT
                             (CREDIT NO. 2260-CE)


                                  June 1,2004




Sector and ThematicEvaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit      = Sri Lanka Rupees (Rs)

 1980                     US$1.oo            Rs 16.5
 1981 1990
       -
                          US$1.oo
                          US$1.oo            Rs28.2
 1991                                        Rs41.4

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ICR               ImplementationCompletionReport
OED               Operations EvaluationDepartment
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report


FiscalYear

Government:               January 1-December 31




Director-General, Operations Evaluation            : Mr.GregoryK.Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department         : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation            : Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                       : Mr.JohnR.Heath

                                                              1



   OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independencein evaluation.


 About this Report
       The Operations Evaluation Departmentassessesthe programsand activitiesof theWorld Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrity of the Bank's self-evaluationprocess andto verify that the Bank'swork is
 producingthe expected results, and second, to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessonsdrawn from experience.As partof this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations. In selecting operationsfor assessment,preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative,large,or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations; those for which
 Executive Directors or Bank management have requestedassessments;andthose that are likely to generate
 important lessons.The projects, topics, and analytical approachesselectedfor assessment support larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

 About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Banks work.
 The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
 current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
 Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance.Possible rafings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutional Development lmpacf: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human,financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible rafings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                         ...
                                                                        111



 Contents

 Principal Ratings           ...............................................................................................................         v

 Key StaffResponsible               ........................................................................................................         v

 Preface   ................................................................................      ..............................................vll   ..

 Summary      ...........................................................................................................................           ix

 Rationale and Approach                   ...................................................................................................        1

 Background-The                L o w Returnto Irrigationin Sri Lanka                                   ...........................................   1

 Project Objectives and Design                     ..........................................................................................        4

 Relevance    ............................................................................................................................           4

 Efficacy   ...............................................................................................................................          5

 Efficiency   ............................................................................................................................           9

 Outcome    ............................................................................................................................            12

 InstitutionalDevelopment Impact                           .................................................................................        12

 Sustainability     ....................................................................................................................            12

Bank and BorrowerPerformance                              ..................................................................................        14

Findings and Lessons
  . .                             .......................................................................................................           15

Annex A     .Tables...............................................................................................................                  17

Annex B    .Re-Estimate             ofthe Economic Rate of Return                                ..............................................    26

Annex C     .Farm       Survey Questionnaire                      ..........................................................................       41

Annex D Basic Data Sheet
            .                               ..............................................................................................         47




This report was preparedby John Heath. who assessedthe project in October2003.The reportwas peer
reviewed by Keith Pitmanandeditedby William Hurlbut RoseGachinaprovidedadministrativesupport.
                                                                              .


                                                        V



PrincipalRatings
                                    /CR*                      ICR Review*                       PPAR
Outcome                        Unsatisfactory           Moderately Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                    Unlikely                      Unlikely                       Unlikely
Institutional                      Modest                       Modest**                     Negligible
Development Impact
Bank Performance                 Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
Borrower                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
Performance

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of
the ICR.
** Rated pafiial in the ICR. OED's ratings database converts this to modest (the current equivalent
designation) in the interests of harmonization; but it should be noted that the ICR rates institutional
development impact only as a part of the achievement of objectives, differing from current guidelines.


Key Staff Responsible
Project
                                                                  Sector Director                          -
 Appraisal                          H. Van Voorthuizen            Chaim Helman                 S. Asanuma


                                              vii




         This is a ProjectPerformanceAssessmentReport (PPAR) for the Sri Lanka
National IrrigationRehabilitationProject, for which Credit No. 2260-CE inthe amount o f
US29.6 million equivalent was approved on June 6, 1991. The credit closed on
December 31,1998, six months later than expected. Final disbursement took place on
May 11,1999 and a balance o f US$5.0 millionequivalent was canceled.

        The PPAR presentsthe findings ofa missionbythe Operations Evaluation
Department that visited Sri Lanka inOctober 2003. The missionwas conducted by Mr.
John R. Heath, assistedby Dr. Sarath Bandara Mananwatte and Dr.RanjithDissanayake
Wanigaratne (consultants). The findings draw on interviewswith beneficiaries, project
staff, officials o f the Government o f Sri Lanka and Bank staff. Also, as a follow-up to the
mission, Dr.Dissanayake conducted a survey o f farm households inJanuary-February
2004. The collaboration of these persons i s gratefully acknowledged, as i s the generous
financial support received from a NorwegianTrust Fund, without which the survey work
would not have beenpossible.

        Following standard OEDprocedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the borrower for
comments before it was finalized. No comments were received.


                                                ix


  Summary

          This is the ProjectPerformance Assessment Report preparedbythe Operations
  EvaluationDepartment (OED) ontheNational IrrigationRehabilitationProject for which
  a credit o f US$29.6 millionequivalent was approved inJune 1991 and closed in
  December 1998, six months behindschedule.

          The objective ofthe project was to stabilize andincrease agricultural production
  and incomes and to raise standards o f living through rehabilitation and improved
  operations and maintenance o f existing irrigation schemes. This entailed upgradingthe
  skills o f farmers and the staff of implementingagencies and creating viable Farmer
  Organizations for managingthe rehabilitation schemes. The project aimed to rehabilitate
 about 1,000 minor schemes covering some 25,000 ha and about 60 medium/major
  schemes (12,500 ha)--comprising about 7 percent o f all irrigated land.

          The project built on a government program, launched in 1988,to share
 responsibility for operations and maintenance with farmer organizations. The program
 was intendedto reduce the budget burdeno f recurrent funding for irrigation, to improve
 maintenance and to boost productivity o f irrigatedwater and land. The program was an
 attempt to redress the limitedefficiency andlow returns to the heavy investmentthat Sri
 Lanka made inirrigation inthe 1970s and 1980s.

          The findings o fthis report are basedon a comprehensive re-evaluationofthe
 economic rate ofreturn to the project and a survey o f 120 households from six
 representative irrigation schemes.

          OED rates outcome as unsatisfactory, basedonthe modest relevance o fthe
 project's development objectives, modest progress inachieving those objectives and
 modest efficiency. Relevance was limitedby the failure to address farmer incentives to
 use water efficiently and the lack o f explicit attention to poverty reduction. Progress
 toward objectives was limitedby the lower than expected growth infarm yields, cropping
 intensityand net farm income. Although the project's re-estimated rate o f return, at 10
percent, i s about equal to the opportunity cost o f capital there were serious deficiencies in
the rehabilitationworks, reducingcost efficiency.

          The project's institutionaldevelopment impact is rated negligiblebasedonthe
pre-eminentattention givento the physicalaspects ofrehabilitation rather thanto the
strengthening o f irrigationagencies, Farmer Organizations, or the incentive framework.
Sustainabilityi s rated unlikely owing to designdeficiencies inthe rehabilitationand the
Farmer Organizations' limited success inmobilizing user funding to pay for operations
andmaintenance.

         Bank performance i s rated unsatisfactory, inparticular, because it failed to ensure
that farmers and staff were properly organized and trained before the rehabilitationwork
began, giving insufficient emphasis to the institutional challenges. Partly for the same
reasons but also because of the delay inproject start-up, the failure to strengthen
provincial irrigation agencies and poor management o f cash flow, Borrower performance
i s also ratedunsatisfactory.

                                             X




        These findings suggest two lessons that might be taken into account when the
Bank prepares future irrigationprojects inSri Lanka and elsewhere. First, after the
economic rationale for rehabilitation has beendemonstrated, consideration needs to be
givento the supporting policy and institutional changesthat mustbe made to boost and
sustain the benefitflow. Measures are neededto provide farmers with incentives to
behave as commercialoperators and to use water sparingly, inline with its marginal cost,

        Second, iffarmers are to assume responsibilityfor operations and maintenance
following rehabilitation, they must be fully consulted onthe design o fthe proposed
works. The creationo f farmer organizations needs to precede rehabilitation, and building
the capacity ofthese organizations-always    a slow process-needs to be given no less
emphasis thanthe engineering aspects.




                                                                   Gregory Ingram
                                                                   Director-General
                                                                   Operations Evaluation

                                                   1


Rationaleand Approach

 1.     The implementation completionreport (ICR) for theNational Irrigation
RehabilitationProject argued that it should be the subject o f a "post-project impact
evaluation"; a recommendation that was endorsed inOED's June 1999 desk review o fthe
report. The ICR noted that despite the project's unsatisfactory outcome it offered a rich
source o f learning about the handover o f irrigation schemes to farmer organizations. The
current evaluationexamines whether inthe five years since the loan closed the irrigation
systemsare performingbetter, and whether farmers are likely to have become better off.

2.      Boththe project appraisal report and the ICR conducted an economic analysis
based on six irrigation schemes (four minor and two medium/major) which are described
as representative of all the schemes included inthe project (1,034 minor schemes and 34
medium/major schemes had been covered at loan closing). OEDre-examined the same
six schemes, the mainfeatures o f which are summarized inAnnex A, Table A3. First,
the economic rate ofreturnwas re-estimated (Annex B). Second, inJanuary-February
2004, following the mainmission, a farm and household survey was administered to 120
project beneficiaries drawn from the six schemes (see Annex C for questionnaire). The
OED survey was not a formal impact evaluation becausethe project hadneither a
baseline survey nor a control group of non-beneficiaries. However, by revisiting the
same sample o f schemes that were studied at appraisal and completion, this evaluation
aimed to establish ifcircumstances had improved over the last five years. While it was
impossible to assess to what extent observed changes are attributable to the project, the
evaluationwas able to determine ifthese changes were consistent with the development
objectives o fthe project.

Background-The Low Returnto Irrigationin Sri Lanka

3,      In1988, following adecadeoffieldexperiments, Sri Lankabecame one ofthe
first South Asian countries to endorse the sharing of responsibility for operations and
maintenance with farmer organizations. Inmediumandmajor schemes (80 ha or larger),
the FarmerOrganizationwas maderesponsible for operations andmaintenance below the
distributary head, while the public water agency retainedcontrol o f the headworks and
main canals. For minor schemes (under 80 ha), full responsibility for all aspects o f
operations and maintenance was transferred to the Farmer Organization. The
Participatory Irrigation SystemManagement program hadthe following objectives:

            Relieve the government ofthe financial burdeno f funding recurrent
            expendituresfor irrigation;
       0    Improve the maintenance o f irrigationfacilities andthe irrigation service;
       0    Enhance the productivity o f irrigated land and water; and
       0    Promote a spirit o f self-reliance among farmers inirrigation schemes.'



  ~




1. N.Abeywickrema, ParticipatoryManagement in Sri Lanka's Irrigation Schemes, International Irrigation
Management Institute, Colombo, Sri Lanka, 1986; J.D. Brewer, "The participatory irrigation system
managementpolicy" Economic Review, Vol. 20, No. 6, 1994, pp.4-9.

                                                 2


 4.      About 85 percent o f200 schemes targeted by the government are under
 participatory management (representing about 15 percent o f all irrigation schemes inthe
 country). This program providedthe designcontext for the project that is the subject o f
 this assessment. The followingparagraphs summarize key aspectsofthe broader
 framework o f irrigatedagriculture inSri Lanka.

 5.      Sri Lankahad a total irrigated area o f 659,000 ha in2000, or about 35 percent o f
 farmland. More than 75 percent o f irrigated land i s inthe dry zone and is mainly usedfor
 highlywater-intensive paddy cultivation. Unlike surface water, ground water is a limited
 resource whose availability has not yet beenfully assessed (although it i s likely that most
 o f the major aquifers have already beentapped)2. The bulk o f water demand i s met from
 surface supplies, usingan infrastructure that comprises 60 large multi-purpose dams, 260
 major irrigation tanks, and about 12,000 minor reservoirs (village tanks). About 85
 percent o f the water supply is usedfor irrigated agriculture.

 Sri Lanka has investedheavily in irrigation-

 6.      Successive administrations sought to make the nation self-sufficient inrice and to
promote movement o fpopulationout o f the crowded wet zone o f the islandto newly-
established, irrigated farming communities inthe dry zone. From 1980 to 1997,the
 government spent about SLR 215 billion(at 1996 prices) on developing irrigation
 infrastructure. Butbudgetsare now more constrained and priorities have shifted.
Irrigation outlays declined fiom 80 percent o f agriculture sector spendinginthe early
 1980s to about 40 percent in2000.3 The share o f new construction inirrigation
investmentsdeclined from the 80 percent plusthat prevailedfiom 1950to 1985 to less
than one-third by the late 1990s. In 1997 the total investment inirrigationwas dividedas
follows: new works, 28 percent; rehabilitation, 41percent; operations and maintenance,
 11percent; andprivate investment 19percent (Table Al, Annex A).

-but the impact on outputandproductivity has been disappointing.

7.       The combinedeffect oftrade, marketing, technology, land andwater policies has
been to tie most farm households to low productivity activities-about        90 percent o f
irrigated land is usedto grow paddy. Poor reliability o f water delivery and limitedaccess
to water by tail-enders, combinedwith the inadequate supply o f agricultural extension
and improvedtechnologies, contribute to low crop yields. Inmany areas inthe dry zone,
diversificationinto higher value crops is impededby water delivery schedules that are
designedfor paddy cultivation-schedules        over which farmers exercise little control.
Low productivity depresses farmer incomes-and          also raises resistance to the
introduction o f water charges needed to fund maintenance o fthe irrigation system.




2. World Bank, Sri Lanka:PromotingAgricultural and RuralNon-farm Sector Growth (ReportNo. 25387),
February26,2003, p. 29.
3. World Bank, 2003,ibid., p.29.

                                                      3


 Falling returnsfrom farming have driven the ruralpopulation out of agriculture..                    .

 8.       The percentage share o f labor employed inagriculture decreased from 47 percent
 o f total employment in 1990 to 36 percent in 1999; but throughout this decade
 agricultural productivity per worker stagnatedat around SLR 53,000 per year (inconstant
 1996 prices). In2000, about 80 percent o fthe population livedinrural areas but only 23
 percent o f the mean earnings o f rural households came from agriculture. About 45
 percent o f rural households are dependenton farming (including casual agricultural wage
 employment). Half o f these households are located inthe poorest 40 percent of the
 income distribution. Agriculture inSri Lankai s becomingincreasinglypolarized between
 a small, dynamic sector (fruits, vegetables and spices) and a large, relatively stagnant
 sector comprising paddy productionandtree crops. The dynamic sector accounts for a
 risingshare of GDP and is fueledby domestic (particularly tourist) and export demand.
 The stagnant sector is associated with stable to declining GDP shares; easing o f import
 restrictions on cereals has reduced the stimulus that these crops receive from domestic
 demand while their relatively highcosts reduce export potential. Mucho f the irrigated
 farm area is tied upinpaddy; and this sector's share o f agricultural GDP declined from
 28 percent in 1982-85 to 22 percent in 1996-2000.4

Has the experimentinparticipatory irrigation marzagement helped to address these
 constraints?

 9.       The early evidence-based on independent evaluation bythe InternationalWater
Management Institute-          i s not en~ouraging.~First, IWMIreports that in schemes where
management responsibilities are handed over to Farmer Organizations government
 spendingon operations andmaintenance tendsto increase inthe five-year periodafter
transfer. Second, farmers inschemes that have been handed over do not make increased
payments (incash or kind) after the handover-although               they may contribute more labor
for canal maintenance. Third, the quality o f irrigation service does not improve with
handover: farmers report no improvement inthe adequacy, timeliness and fairness o f
water distribution, andno reduction inthe incidence of irrigation-related conflicts.
Fourth, farmers are frequently dissatisfied with the quality of the government-financed
rehabilitation works that are typically a precondition for handover; andnot convinced that
the functional condition of canal infrastructure improves with handover.

Most importantly, it was found that:



4. World Bank, 2003, ibid., Executive Summary.
5. The data are drawn from an intensive study o ftwo irrigation schemes (Nachchaduwa and Hakwatuna
Oya) and from an extensive survey of 50 randomly selectedschemes from four districts (Anuradhapura,
Kurunegala, Moneragala and Hambantota) where major and medium irrigation schemesare concentrated.
(None o fthese schemes were included inthe National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project but the findings are
probably still broadly relevant).(M. Samad and D. Vermillion, Assessment o f Participatory Management o f
Irrigation Schemes in Sri Lanka, ResearchReport No. 34, InternationalWater Management Institute,
Colombo, 1999).

                                               4


      "Management transfer alone didnot result insignificant improvements in
      agricultural productionlevels or the gross value o f agriculturalproductionper unito f
      land or per unit o f water diverted. Neither didrehabilitation alone create significant
      effects. However, inschemes where both management transfer andrehabilitation
      have occurred, significant effects on agricultural productivity levels and economic
      returns were observed".6

 10.      This assessmentconsiders whether the project inquestion bears out these earlier
 findings about the impact ofrehabilitationandmanagement transfer.

 Project Objectives and Design

 11.     A detailed description o fproject features is giveninTable A2 (Annex A).

 12.     The mainobjective ofthe National IrrigationRehabilitationProjectwas to
 stabilize and increase agriculturalproductionand incomes and to raise the standards o f
 livingthrough rehabilitation and improvedoperations andmaintenance of existing
 irrigation schemes. Subsidiary objectives included (a) upgrading the skills o f farmers and
 the staff o fthe implementingagencies, and(b) creating viable Farmer Organizations for
 managingthe rehabilitation schemes.

 13.     The project aimedto rehabilitate about 1,000 minor schemes covering some
 25,000 ha and about 60 medium/major schemes (12,500 ha), covering 7 percent o fthe
total irrigatedarea as o f 1990.Before any scheme could be rehabilitated the relevant
 Farmer Organizationhadto agree that:

         With respect to minor schemes, the hllcost o f operations and maintenance would
         beborne bythe Organizationonce rehabilitation was complete;

     0   With respect to the medium/major schemes, the full cost o foperations and
         maintenance for distributary and field canals would be met bythe Organization
         immediately after rehabilitation, with costs for operating and maintaining
         headworks and main canals beginningto be recovered from the Organizationtwo
         years after rehabilitation.

Relevance

14.      The project's objectives were consistent withthe strategy of Bank andBorrower
whenthe project was appraised, A major Bank economic report o f 1988 arguedthat the
emphasis givento irrigationinthe country's development plans should be reconsidered.
Faced with the evidence of low rates o f returnon investments innew irrigation schemes,
the report recommendedthat the share o f irrigationhesettlementinh t u r e public
investment programs be reduced substantially and that future investmentconcentrate on
highreturnprojects inrehabilitation andupgradingof existingirrigationschemes.



6. Samad andVermillion, 1999, ibid., p. 27.

                                                   5


  15.     This recommendation was embodied inthe designofthe National Irrigation
 RehabilitationProject-building        on the earlier Village IrrigationRehabilitationProject.
 The summary of government strategy inthe appraisal report focused onthe needto
 preserve and make optimal use o f existing irrigationinfrastructure inthe short and
 mediumterm. The Bank's projectrationale ignoredthe sunk costs argument: itjustified
 fresh investment on the grounds that the returns to past investmentwere worth
 protecting-without     rigorously examiningalternatives that might have offered higher
 returns.

 16.      OEDmeasuresrelevance interms of current strategy, not the strategy whenthe
 project was appraised. The key issue i s whether, by the standards o ftoday, the project's
 development objectives, as formulated duringimplementation, respondedto a problem
 that was meaningful at that time, and whether the nature o fthat response was appropriate.

 17.      The current strategy ofBank andBorrower emphasizes (a) efficient management
 o f water (which includes applying prices that reflect the scarcity o fthe resource) and (b)
 reduction o fpoverty. These were also key issues when the project was designedand
 implemented.The project responded to these objectives inaway that was only partly
 relevant. Transferring management to Farmer Organizations was, inprinciple, a way o f
 increasing efficiency. But it was only halfthe answer; the other halfhadto do with
 correctingthe trade andtaxation regime to provide farmers with an incentive to get the
highest possible returnto their use of irrigationwater. The project didnot address the rice
bias, failing to question the logic o f government price support and input subsidies.

 18.      Second, there are equity considerations that the Bank's strategy didnot address.
Government support to the domestic price o fpaddy-the            wedge between domestic and
world market price exceeding 20 percent, equivalent to 2 percent o f GDP-benefited
larger producers, discriminating against poorer farmers and rural workers, many of whom
were net buyers ofrice. Indeed, around the time the project was designed, itwas
estimated that 84 percent of rural households purchased more rice than they sold.' Most
families would be obliged to sell rice at harvest time (because o f immediate cash needs or
the lack o f on-farm storage) and thenbuy back later inthe year at much higher prices. An
irrigation rehabilitation project would needto be linkedto an appropriately-designed
sector adjustment operation ifthese distributional issues were to be effectively tackled.
This didnot happen.

Based on these considerations relevance is rated modest.


Efficacy

19.     According to the ICR, the expected outputs were substantially delivered, and at 90
percent o fthe anticipated cost. The command area rehabilitatedwas inline withthe
target set at appraisal; but fewer medium or major schemes were covered than expected
(Table 1). The number o f FarmerOrganizations created was also broadly consistent with

7. David Sahn, "Food Consumption Patternsand ParametersinSri Lanka: The Census and Control of
Malnutrition", Washington, D.C.: International FoodPolicy ResearchInstitute, June 1985 (Draft).

                                                      6


 expectations, although coverage o fthe larger schemes is not very clear. About 70percent
 of the expected training was delivered.

 Table 1. Outputs by Component
 COMPONENTS               COSTS (US$ million)         OUTPUTS
                          Appraisal       Actual
                          Estimate
 Rehabilitation and       34.9            31.6        1,048 minor schemes, 105% of appraisal target
 improvement works,                                   34 mediumlmajor schemes, 57% of target
 vehicles &                                           38,390 ha (command area), 102% of target
 equipment
 Farmer                   2.7             2.1         1,255 Organizations, 105%of target (minor
 Organizations                                        schemes)/l
 Training and             7.4             8.0         172 persons trained overseas, 71% of target;
 technical assistance                                 92,471 personldays of in-country training, 67% of
                                                      target;
                                                      2,367 personldays of technical assistance, 110% of
                                                      target
 Other12                  4.8             3.0         Not Available
 TOTAL                    49.8            44.7
 Source: Implementation Completion Report.
/I No target was specified for the number of organizations to be created in mediumlmajor schemes;
 between the 34 schemes in this category, 207 Organizations were created, each covering part of the
 network of distributary and field canals.
/2 Institutional support and Studies, Environmental Protection (No output indicators specified).



20.       With respect to outcomes, the picture is less promising: the project's main
development objectives were not hlly achieved.

Objective1: RaisingFarm Outputand Incomes(Partially Achieved)

21.       According to the ICR, the increase incropped area was slightly higher than
expected but cropping intensity and yields grew by less thanthe expected amount. The
net effect was that paddy output grew inline with appraisal expectations. Onthe other
hand, there was no significant diversification into other (more profitable) field crops. Net
annual farm incomes increased by substantially less thanappraisal estimates (Table A4,
Annex A).

22.      OED's 2004 farm survey' revisitedthe same six schemes covered inthe appraisal
and ICRs and found that cropping intensity andpaddy yield were respectively slightly
higher and slightly lower thanappraisal estimates (Table 2). Butthe growth o fpaddy
output and the diversificationinto other field crops were both lower than expected. Net
farm income grew by less than the appraisal had forecast. However, this aggregate
picture conceals substantial differences between the schemes: three hadnet farm incomes
that much exceeded appraisal estimates, and three did less well than expected (Table A3,
Annex A).Botho f the two mediumt'major schemes inthe study (Kaltota and Mahagal
Wewa) had lower thanexpected farm income growth.

8. This survey was carried out in January-February2004, as a follow-up to the mainmissionwhich took
place inOctober 2003.

                                                       7


 Table2. Determinantsof FarmIncomeGrowth

                           Appraisal Estimate               Survey Results  Change
                           (1991)                           (2004)la

                           (A)                (B)           (C)             ( B ) W    ( C ) W
                           Without Project With             With Project
                                              Project
 Cropping intensity (%)    99                 146           149             47%        51%
 Paddy yield (mt/ha)/b     2.62               3.95          3.87            51%        48%
 Paddy output (mt)         4,070              8,087         7,164           99%        76%
 OFC Share (%)IC                              7             4               NA         NA
 Net farm income/d         7,857              22,807        16,788          190%       114%
 Source: Staff Appraisal Report; Implementation Completion Report; OED Farm Survey, 2004.
 -See
 Note.      Annex A, Table A3 for details of each of the six schemes.
 /a Mean value for six schemes.
 /b Main season (maha).
 /c Share of Other Field Crops in net farm income.
 /d `000 Sri Lanka rupees, converted to SLR 1995values using GDP deflator.



 23.     The ICR attributed the shortfall infarm output andincomes to a weak incentive
framework. The lack o f legal title to land and the absence o f secure water rightsreduces
 investment by farmers. Also, farms are too small to be economically viable. Household
incomes are therefore derivedmainly from subsistence-oriented rice production
supplemented by off-farm wage earnings. There i s little scope for the crop diversification
that i s necessary ifirrigation potential i s to be realized.

24.      The 2004 survey resultspartly support this analysis. Onthe one hand, the mean
area ownedby farmers is, ineach o fthe six schemes, somewhat larger than assumedat
appraisal (Table 3, footnote /a); and none o f the 120 farmers interviewedreported that the
area owned at the time o f the survey was less than that they hadowned five years
previously-in      most cases farm size hadremained constant. Also, two-thirds or more o f
farmers have title to their land; and, with the exceptiono f Kaltota (where 47 percent were
untitledfive years before), titling appears to have occurred some time ago. Whether or
not farmers have secure water rights, a majority report that they are satisfied withthe
supplyo f irrigationwater that they receive. Onthe other hand, there is little crop
diversificationand a significant dependenceon other income sources, mainly wage
earnings (particularly at Dorakada, which i s located onthe edge o f a town) (Annex A,
Table A6). A national household survey in2000 showed that more than two-thirds o f
households involved incrop productionbelieve that diversification would boost their
income; but these same respondents cite problematic access to credit, water, appropriate
inputs, technical assistance androads as the mainobstacles to diver~ifying.~




9. WorldBank, Sri Lanka:PromotingAgriculturalandRuralNon-farmSector Growth(ReportNo. 25387),
February26,2003, pp. 19-22.

                                                       8


 Table 3. Salient Featuresof Farms in Six RepresentativeIrrigation Schemes

                                 Kaltota     Mahagal        Dorakada      Kobeigane Mahakiri        Nittewa
                                             Wewa           Liyadde                    lbewa

                                 (N=30)      (N=30)         ( ~ ~ 1 5 )  (N=l5)        (N=l 5,      (N=l5)
 Farmland owned (ha)/a          0.8           1.8          0.4            1.5          0.8          1.8
 Farmers with land title (%)    70.0         90.0           100.0        66.7          100.0        100.0
 Farmers "satisfied" or
 "fairly satisfied" with
 supply of irrigationwater      90.0         60.0          80.0          86.7          100.0        85.7


 Share of Other Field Crops     --           0.9           60.9          I.I           --           3.5
 in net farm income (%)
 Share of farm income in        68.1         54.3           16.4         43.7          41.2         48.6
 net household income/b
 WJ)
 Source: OED Farm Survey, 2004.
 /a The appraisal models assumed the following farm sizes: Kaltota, 0.4 ha; MahagalWewa, 1.Iha;
 Dorakada Liyadde, 0.2 ha; Kobeigane,0.2 ha; Mahakiri Ibbewa, 0.4 ha; Nittewa, 0.6 ha (Staff Appraisal
 Report, Table 5.2, p. 29).
 /b "Farm income" refers to income from holdings operated directly by the farmer, as distinct from "Off-Farm
 Income" (mainly wages received for working for other farmers) and "Non-Farm Income (all income from
 outside the agriculture sector; mainly wages).



 Objective 2: Creating Sound Institutionsfor Operations and Maintenance
 (Partially Achieved)

 25.       Although the number o f Farmer Organizations created matched expectations, the
 completionreport presents evidence that they were unlikelyto be viable. The
 Organizations were not created before the rehabilitation works were begun, giving
farmers no say inthe design.Not surprisingly, most farmers didnot provide labor or
materials, thus failing to make the envisaged contribution o f 10percent to the total cost o f
works. There were major flaws inthe quality o fthe works andtheir environmental
appropriateness," weakening sustainability and therefore reducing the prospects for
longer-term farmer commitment. Farmer resistance was invokedto explain why the
target for handover of operations andmaintenance responsibilities to Organizations had
only been partially met-64          percent for small schemes, 32 percent for larger schemes-
when the projectclosed. OED was unable to verify what the current status o fhandover is
but was advised that there are still schemesthat await transfer.                  .


26.       What has changed since? Inthe 2004 survey, OED found that 14 out o f 15 Farmer
Organizations inthe six schemes had, inprinciple, assumedresponsibility for the cost o f
operating and maintainingthe lower endo fthe canal network. Eachhas an irrigation
committee which oversees water supply to individual fields-hiring a sluice-gate
operator-and mobilizes members' (unpaid) labor for maintaining distributary and field


10. Irrigation tanks in Sri Lanka are generally arrayed in linkedcascades, occupying sub-watersheds. The
planning, selection and design o fthe rehabilitationworks failed to take into account the water flow between
tanks.

                                                9


canals. Members are summoned to a meetingat the beginningo f each seasonto agree on
the cultivation calendar and the attendant chores. Book keepingi s rudimentary. It was not
possible to obtain accurate information about the financing o f works by these
Organizations. It was found that farmers pay a token membership fee to the Organization
butthere is no significant upfront contributionto a fund for financing operations and
maintenance. Organizations receive government money for identifyingsuitable private
contractors to carry out rehabilitation works: this takes the form o f a commission equal to
5 percent o f the value o f the rehabilitation contract. Inother words, the financing o f
essential irrigationtasks remains government-driven.

Table A8 (Annex A) shows that a plurality o f farmers are either satisfied or fairly
satisfied withthe Farmer Organizationwith respect to

    0    Organizing rehabilitation
         Organizing maintenance
    0    Supplying farm inputs
    0    Providing informationabout the use o f funds
    0    Settling disputes between members.

27.     Except at Kaltota, a majority farmers were satisfied or fairly satisfied with the
Farmer Organization's role insecuring credit. The only area where the dissatisfied
contingent dominated (four out o f six schemes) was the assistanceprovided by
Organizations with the marketingo fpaddy.

28.     Inconclusion, FarmerOrganizations canbedeemedviable ifthey arejudged
solely by their members' satisfaction with the services they provide-but      this may simply
reflect farmers' very low expectations. The Organizations are not viable interms o f being
financially self-sustaining. Probably they do not play a significant role inpromoting the
efficiency or profitability o f farming. The 2004 survey showed that only 16 percent o f        4

farmers received an income from the sale o f farm produce that exceeded income from all
other sources; five years previously the proportion was 14percent (Table A8, Annex A).
This paints apicture o fpart-time subsistenceproduction, rather than a booming
commercial farm economy. Ofthe six sites, only Dorakada i s periurban: much o fthe off-
farm employment involves long-distance migration(includingjobs inthe army and, for
young women-a        key source o fremittances-domestic service inMiddleEastern
countries).

Inthe lightofthese findings, efficacyisratedmodest.

Efficiency

29,     The ICR assessedthat the project's overall economic rate ofreturnwas 14percent
(inthe basecase), comparedto the 31percent forecast at appraisal. The reductionin
benefits i s attributed to lower thanexpected cropping intensity and yields, and the lack o f
diversification into crops more profitablethan rice. Costs were higher than anticipated
owing to delayed implementation. But the 14 percent estimate i s predicated on adequate
maintenance o f the works following rehabilitation. The ICR indicated that adequate
maintenance was unlikely, giventhe limitedviability o fthe Farmer Organizations. The

                                                      10


 ICR adjusted the rate o f returnto reflect a 20 percent reduction inproductionphased over
time owing to poor maintenance. This yields arate ofreturn(10 percent) that is barely
 equal to the opportunity cost o f capital, suggestingthat efficiency should be rated modest.

 30.      This evaluationrefers to three newsets of databearingonthe efficiency o fthe
Project. First, Kikuchi and colleagues re-estimated the rate o f return as 12percent, the
thirdhighestofthe six rehabilitationprojects reviewedbythe InternationalWater
Management Institute." However, the authors cautionthat they have taken at face value
the increase incropping intensity reported inthe completionreport; this is "the most
critical parameter indeterminingthe benefit flow o fthis type o f project'' andthey suggest
that it was probably overestimated. The completionreport says that cropping intensity
increased by 6 percent inthe minor schemes and 2 percent inthe larger schemes.

31.       The second data source derives from a re-estimate ofthe economic rate of return
commissionedby OED in2003. Usingthe same analytic framework usedinthe appraisal
and ICR, OED derived a rate o f return o f 18 percent. Cropping intensity showed an
increment o f 9 percent for the minor schemes and 15 percent for the larger schemes. The
higherrate ofreturn is drivennot only by increasedcropping intensity (13 percent higher
than the completion report estimate) but also by the increase inthe irrigable area (6
percent higher) and yields (13 percent higher). The net effect is that paddy output is
almost one-third higher than estimated at completion(Table 4). The cost side o fthe
equationremainedlargely unchanged: the cost o f works and operations and maintenance
usedthe data inthe completionreport. There was some increase inlabor and farm input
costs but this cancels out when offset against a 12 percent increase inpaddy price.

Table 4. Economic Rate of Return-Drivers

                               Minor Schemes             Medium/Major Schemes           Total or Mean
ICR (1999)
lrrigable area (ha)            21,250                    11,382                         32,632
Cropping Intensity (%)         134                       168                            151
Yield (tiha)                   3.96                      3.95                           3.96
Paddy output (t)               112,573                   75,528                         188,101
OED (2003)
lrrigable area (ha)            22,000                    12,721                        34,721
Cropping Intensity (%)         150                       190                            170
Yield (tiha)                   4.04                     4.87                           4.46
Paddy output (t)               129,281                   117,703                       246,984
Source: Implementation Completion Report; OED's 2003 re-estimate o fthe economic rate of return.



32.       The thirddata source is OED's 2004 farm survey, which found a lower than
expected increase incropping intensity and yields (Table 5), consistent with a more
modest rate o f return than the 2003 re-estimate. Why i s there a discrepancy? The 2003


11. M.Kikuchiet al., IrrigationSector inSri Lanka:RecentInvestmentTrends andthe DevelopmentPath
Ahead, InternationalWater ManagementInstitute ResearchReportNo. 62, Colombo, 2002, p. 12.

