Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19384
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2260 - CE)
May 28, 1999
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = SLRupees (Rs.)
Average Yearly US$ 1.00 Equivalent
1991       1992        1993        1994        1995        1996       1997        1998
41.9       45.4        48.0        49.5        53.5        55.0        59.9       68.6
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AR&TI Agrarian Research & Training Institute   IRMU    Irrigation Research Management Unit
CMC    Central Management Cell                 MIP      Ministry of Irrigation and Power
D&F    Distributory and Field                  MTR      Mid-Term Review
DAS    Department of Agrarian Services        NE        North-East
DCA    Development Credit Agreement           NGO       NON-Government Organization
E&A    Engineering & Administration           NIRP    National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
ERR    Economic Rate of Return                 O&M      Operation and Maintenance
EU      European Union                         PCC      Provincial Project Coordination Committee
FAO    Food and Agriculture Organization       PD       Project Director
FAO/CP FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program      PIAs     Provincial Irrigation Agencies
FOs    Farmers' Organizations                 PMCs    Project Management Committees
FRs    Farmer Representatives                  PPCC    Provincial Project Coordination Committee
GOSL   Govermment of Sri Lanka                QA        Quality Assurance
Ha      Hectares                               Rs       Sri Lanka Rupees
lAs     Implementing Agencies                  RST      Regional Support Team
ICR     Implementation Completion Report       SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
ICRC    International Committee of Red Cross   SASRD   South Asia Rural Development
ID      Irrigation Department                  SCF      Standard Conversion Factor
IDA     International Development Association  UNHCR  United Nations High Commission for Refugees
IIMI    International Irrigation Management Institute VIRP    Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
IMF     International Monitory Fund            WB       World Bank
lOs     Institutional Organizers
Vice President      Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director    Mariana Todorova
Sector Manager      Ridwan Ali
Task Leader         Nihal Fernando



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION P'ROJECT
(Credit 2260-CE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface .........................................................i
Evaluation Summary ........................................................ i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .........................................................I
A. BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES  .                                    .....................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................3
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT    ........................................................7
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .........................................................9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .........................................................9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ......................................................... 10
G. ASSESSMENT OF THE OUTCOME ........................................................ 11
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .........................................................11
I. LESSONS LEARNED ........................................................ 11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ........................................................                  13
Table  1:  Summary of Assessments                                                        14
Table  2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits                                                    16
Table  3:  Project Timetable                                                             18
Table  4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual                   18
Table  5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                     19
Table  6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation                                          20
Table  7:  Studies Included in Project                                                   21
Table  8A: Project Costs                                                                 23
8B: Project Financing                                                            23
Table  9:  Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   24
Table 10:  StatusofLegalCovenants                                                        25
ThIs document has a restricted distribution and may be used ly recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not othervwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                 26
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                  26
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                                      27
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide-Memoire                                                         28
B. Financial and Economic Re-evaluation                                           38
C. Cofinancier's (EU) Contribution to the ICR                                     55
D. Borrower's Comments and Observations on the Draft ICR                          58
E. Borrower's Project Evaluation Summary                                          64
MAP No. - IBRD 22876



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORTF
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PRCOJECT
(Credit 2260-CE)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (NIRP), for which Credit 2260-CE in the amount of SDR 21.9 million (US$
29.6 million equivalent) was approved on June 6, 1991 and made effective on October 21,1991.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1998 for the project activities in the Northeast
Province. The credit for all other project activities closed on June 30, 1998. Final disbursement took
place on May 11, 1999. Following the refund of unutilized balances in the special account, it is
estimated that total disbursement will be about SDR 17.5 million (US$24.6 million equivalent). In
1997, the amount of SDR 3.65 million (US$5.0 million equivalent at that time) was cancelled from
the IDA credit. An additional amount of approximately SDR 700,000 (US$945,000 equivalent),
including SDR 442,500 (US$ 597,657 equivalent) of unused funds in project Special Account, is
expected to be cancelled when the credit accounts are closed. Cofinancirng for the project, in the
amount of US$4.5 million plus about US$9.2 million equivalent in food aid was provided as grants by
the European Union.
The ICR was prepared by Mr Nihal Femando (Irrigation Engineer, SASRD), the task
team leader, and Mr Raffale Suppa (Economist) of (FAO/CP)Y. The ICR was reviewed by Mr Henry P.
Gassner, Principle Operations Officer (SASRD). The Co-financier (EU) provided comments that are
included in Appendix C to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the FAO/CP mission to Sri Lanka from
June 20 to July 3, 1998. The report is based on material gathered from the project files,
supervision reports, various project related evaluation and research studies, findings from field
investigations, and discussions with Bank staff, project implementing agency staff, project
consultants and beneficiary farners. Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by: (a)
participating in the ICR mission; (b) providing data and substantive comments on the ICR
mission's Aide-memoire (Appendix A); (c) contributing to the statistical information and
reassessment of ERR (Appendix B); (d) commenting on the draft ICR. (Appendix D); and (e)
preparing its own project completion report and evaluation summary (Appendix E). Some of the
Borrower's comments on the draft ICR have been incorporated in the final ICR.
Food and Agriculture Organization and World Bank Co-operative program. Mr Suppa was the leader of the
ICR mission.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2260-CE)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.        In 1980's the Government of Sri Lanka's irrigation subsector strategy emphasized
preserving and improving the performance of existing irrigation schemes. ID)A supported this strategy
by financing a series of irrigation rehabilitation projects, including the Village Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (VIRP) (Cr. 1160-CE). The NIRP was proposed in 1987 as a way to continue the rehabilitation
of minor irrigation schemes started under the VIRP. The IDA supported the NIRP, particularly
because of its strategy of improving the capacity and efficiency of public irrigation services and
promoting increased participation of farners' organizations in irrigation system management.
Project Objectives
2.        The main objectives of the NIRP were to stabilize and increase agricultural production
and incomes, and raise the standard of living of project beneficiaries through rehabilitation and
improved O&M of existing irrigation schemes. Subsidiary objectives included: (a) upgrading the skills
of farmers and staff of the implementing agencies (lAs); and (b) creating viable FOs for managing the
rehabilitated schemes. The schemes for rehabilitation were selected after reaching prior agreement
with the respective FOs that they would bear: (i) the full cost of O&M of minor schemes and
Distributory and Field (D&F) canal system of major/medium schemes after rehabilitation, and (ii) the
full cost of O&M of headworks and main canal systems of major/medium schemes beginning two
years after rehabilitation.
3.        Project objectives were in line with Govemment's irrigation management policies and
Bank's sector assistance strategy for Sri Lanka, which inter-alia supported transferring the
responsibility of operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes to beneficiaries. However, those
objectives were too demanding for the implementing agencies in view of the absence of a coherent
agriculture sector policy, effective land markets and water rights.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.        Overall the project achieved most of its physical objectives. IHowever, it has not yielded
and is not expected to yield substantial development results, as evident from project's failure to
establish promising conditions to ensure sustainability of project's outcome.
5.        The project has reached physical rehabilitation targets fully. It is estimated that all civil
works of 1,048 minor schemes and 34 major/medium schemes would be completed by the end of June
1999 (Part II, Table 5). It also established scheme level FOs in all minor schemes, D&F level FOs and
Project Management Committees (PMCs) in all major/medium schemes, registered the FOs under
Clause 56A of the Agrarian Service Act, and handed-over 64 % of the completed minor schemes and
32 % of D&F canal systems of major/medium schemes to registered FOs. Despite these quantitative
achievements, the organizational and financial viability of the FOs remain uncertain. The handing-
over process in many schemes is supply-driven, and is symbolized with a written agreement of the
handing-over and taking-over, signed between the lAs and FOs respectively. FOs have accepted
handing over through sheer necessity rather than by conviction. It is unlikely that those FOs could and
.i



would bear the full cost of maintenance of those schemes/D&F canal systems in the foreseeable future,
although only a few FOs could and would participate effectively in system operation.
6.         Compared to previous projects, NIRP included a number of positive actions to improve
the quality of civil works, including the fielding of technical consultants in the regions (Regional
Support Teams) and providing training to farmers on basic construction aspects and O&M. The civil
work quality assurance system could not be enforced at optimum levels mainly because of inadequate
transport facilities, and shortage of qualified and trained Work Supervisors.
7.        Overall, the achievement of the training programme for project staff and farmers is
considered satisfactory. Overseas long-term and short-term training/study tours for project staff were
successfully completed. In-country training was also successfully conducted and included courses for
project staff, Institutional Organisers (1Os) and Farmer Representatives (FRs). Training of project staff
recorded an implementation rate of 84%. However, training opportunities were not equitably
distributed to all implementing agencies; it was largely the Irrigation Department (ID) staff who
benefited from the overseas training program. Achievement of IOs and FRs training program is not
satisfactory, mainly because of the delayed commencement of rehabilitation itself and the shortage of
trainers.
8.        The project included provisions for establishing a Dam safety Unit and an Irrigation
Research Management Unit (IRMU), and for strengthening the Civil Works Quality Control Unit, all
within the ID. While a Dam Safety Unit was established in 1994, the ID was not able to activate it as
expected, and consequently, EU support was limited only to short-term training. Although dam safety
monitoring is carried out as a routine activity by the ID, the need to upgrade dam safety arrangements
and services prevails. An IRMU too was established and institutionalized within the ID. It was able to
conduct a number of research studies and seminars, but its performance and effectiveness have
declined. At the end, the research issues identified at appraisal yet remain to be addressed. The Civil
Works Quality Control Unit has been satisfactorily strengthened.
9.         Of the studies envisaged, only the Benchmark and Evaluation study was initiated during
the project. The Benchmark was established but final evaluation is yet to be completed. Useful project
related technical guidelines, manuals and studies have been concluded by project consultants and by
IRMU.
10.       Total project cost is estimated to reach US$ 44.7 million by Credit Closure, or about 89%
of the original project cost of US$49.8 million. Final overall disbursement is estimated to include
IDA's US$24.6 million, or about 83% of the total amount approved of US$29.6 million, EU's grant of
US$4.5 million, EU's contribution of US$9.2 million as Food Aid and GOSL's contribution, including
FOs' contribution, of US$6.4 million. The project's Economic Rate of IRetum (ERR) has been
reassessed at 13.9 % compared to an estimate of 31% at appraisal (Part I, section 25). The main
factors that have reduced the economic impact of the project are the less than expected increases in
cropping intensity and yield, and the longer than expected implementation period.. The reduced
production benefits are attributable to inadequate agricultural policies and farmer incentives (see Part I,
section 28), while the delays in implementation were mainly due to delays caused by the late
appointment of project consultants and mobilization of project staff and resources in the early years of
the project, and weak cash-flow management in the later years. The financial analysis indicates
increases of net farm income ranging from 28% to 50% (Appendix B). Although considered satisfactory
at farm level, these results are below appraisal expectations. Also, the ERR was calculated assuming
adequate post-rehabilitation maintenance of the completed works. However, this is considered unlikely.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out to assess the ERR, assuming 20 % reduction in production phased
over time due to poor maintenance. For this scenario, the ERR is 10 %.
11.       Despite the limited impact, the project strengthened the participatory irrigation
management culture amongst the irrigation agency staff and fartners. It planted participatory irrigation
Iii



management as a principle and a mandatory role of their technical staff. The project created
countrywide precedence for: (a) partial rehabilitation cost recovery from beneficiaries; (b) getting the
FOs involved in construction activities to strengthenFOs financial status; amd (c) O&M turnover of
rehabilitated schemes to FOs.
Project Sustainability
12.       Project sustainability is rated unlikely. The O&M of the rehabilitated irrigation schemes
remains highly dependent on external financial support. While about two third of the completed minor
schemes and about one third of the D&F canal systems of major/medium schemes are reported to have
been handed over to FOs, the outlook for sustainability of the project is promising for only a few of
the schemes. For the vast majority of the schemes, the sustainability will depend on further efforts, in
forming strong FOs to adequately organise O&M operations. Without adequate O&M, the physical
condition of the rehabilitated irrigation infrastructure and agricultural production under those schemes
are likely to deteriorate soon.
Key Factors Affecting the Project
13.       Among many factors that affected project outcome and sustainability, the low
productivity and poor profitability of irrigated farming in Sri Lanka are the main ones. These two main
factors are consequences of the lack of coherent agriculture sector policy, absence of effective land
markets and water rights. The overall project implementation has been behind schedule due to a
number of reasons: (a) the late appointment of project consultants; (b) the IAs could not mobilise their
resources fully; (c) delays in procurement of project vehicles and equipment; (d) the poor cash-flow
management after 1996 which caused shortfalls in the availability of project funds to meet with project
expenditures at crucial civil work construction periods; (e) the general strike of the Technical Officers
of the ID for three months during July-September 1997; and (f) delayed but heavy Northeast monsoon
rains during 1994-1997 which obliged the farners to opt for an early Yala ('dry season) cultivation in
the following year reversing their consent to forego Yala cultivation to permit rehabilitation works.
The project was benefited by periodic quantitative reviewing and approving of project work plans by
the Project Coordination Committee (PCC). But the monitoring and evaluation of the project in
respect of the institutional aspects and project sustainability issues was not effective.
IDA Performance
14.       The Bank was not directly involved in project identification/preparation but IDA
promptly indicated support for the project as a follow-up of the previous irrigation rehabilitation
project (VIRP). The WB Resident Mission assisted on a part-time basis in the preparatory work of the
project during 1988-1990. The project was appraised by IDA in November/December 1990 and
approved in June 1991. The project objectives were in line with GOSL national strategy for irrigation
management and Bank's assistance strategy. Bank's performance in project identification and
preparation assistance was satisfactory.
15.       Many external factors, not foreseen at appraisal, had a negative effect on the
implementation time table, project outcome and sustainability. The feasibility of the project objectives
should have been carefully analyzed in the context of the agriculture sector policies, and land and
water rights issues. The project overestimated the viability of FOs, and farmers willingness and
capacity to finance O&M of rehabilitated schemes. The main lesson that resulted from the VIRP
clearly indicated that "... the formation of FOs should come before physical implementation ..." was
not given adequate attention at project design. The design of project imlplementation management
arrangements and assessment of staff requirements to implement civil works were not adequate. In
view of these shortcomings, Bank's performance in project design and appraisal was deficient.
16.       Overall, eleven supervision missions visited the project. A comnbined IDA/EU Mid-Term
Review (MTR) mission was carried out in May 1995. The early supervision missions assisted the
.i.i



borrower to alleviate implementation constraints and accelerate the implementation. However, all
supervision missions did not address the project sustainability issues adequately and allowed the
project to be completed without accomplishing most of its institutional and social objectives. IDA
management did not support borrower's request for an extension of the closing date beyond
30 June 1998 for the project as a whole. However, IDA responded positively to a six-month extension
for the project activities in the Northeast in view of delays resulting from civil disturbances. Overall,
IDA performance in project supervision is considered partially satisfactory.
Borrower Performance
17.       The project was prepared by the borrower through a Project Preparation Cell comprised
of the ID and DAS staff assisted by consultants. The performance of the borrower is, at this stage,
considered satisfactory. But there were a few shortcomings in the detail design as reflected under the
section on 'Key Lessons Learned' (Section 20 below).  The GOSL performnance in project
implementation was mixed. The project implementation pace and progress were unsatisfactory from
the inception, but improved substantially towards the end. Apart from completing civil works and
forming FOs, the project did not accomplish most of its social and institutional objectives. The quality
of the civil works in some schemes were below expected standards and requirements. The
sustainability of the project outcomes is unlikely. However, the GOSL is to be particularly
commended for its decision to allocate sufficient funds to enable the completion of the ongoing
rehabilitation works of the schemes whose completion dates were beyond the credit closure on June
30, 1998.
18.       The borrower's compliance with accounting, financial reporting, auditing, procurement,
and progress reporting requirements was satisfactory.  The legal covenant that envisaged the
reorganization of the public irrigation sector was waived by mutual agreement with IDA and the
borrower. The co-operation between the borrower and IDA remained firm through the
implementation period in spite of the IDA decision to extend for six months the original credit closing
date to December 31, 1998 only in respect of the works and studies in the Northeast.
Assessment of Outcome
19.       Overall, the project's outcome is rated unsatisfactory. Since July 1994, the project has
been rated unsatisfactory due to the very slow pace of project implementation of the rehabilitation
works and non-compliance with major project covenants. At the end, the project achieved its physical
targets and major objectives of increasing agricultural production and incomes of farmer in the project
areas, but failed to create viable FOs and to set up an efficient O&M system for the newly
rehabilitated schemes. Consequently, the sustainability of the project is unlikely. The sustainability of
the project outcomes still remains highly dependant upon external financial support.
Future Operations
20.       The Government provided finances to enable completion of ongoing rehabilitation of
schemes whose completion dates are beyond credit closure. The government has secured EU
assistance under 'aftercare' program to consolidate the FO development and institutional development
programs initiated under the project. Despite unsatisfactory outcome of the project, the NIRP was a
major national attempt to set in place a sustainable O&M system in the irrigation sector. It provides
a wealth of lessons and experience for designing future projects. It is, therefore, recommended that
the Bank together with the Government, carry-out a post-project evaluation of the status of the FOs,
and the O&M arrangements of the schemes rehabilitated under the project.
iv



Key Lessons Learned
21.        The main lessons learned from the implementation of the project include: (i) without up-
front commitments on agriculture sector policy and related institutional reforms, it is difficult to
achieve successful irrigation projects; (ii) a situation of low productivity and profitability of irrigated
farming systems inhibit the development of viable FOs, and establishment of beneficiary-driven,
sustainable O&M arrangement in the irrigation sector; (iii) formings FOs and carrying out
rehabilitation at the same time do not work well; before starting rehabilitation works, it is essential to
maintain for at least a year, an effective institutional support; (iv) improvements to one scheme affects
hydrology and water availability at other downstream schemes in tank cascade systems; this factor
needs to be adequately addressed in scheme selection, planning and dlesign of future irrigation
rehabilitation projects; (v) it is essential to develop and enforce pragmatic civil work specifications,
and contract packaging, administration and quality assurance systems suitable for rehabilitation to
ensure sustainability of the rehabilitated schemes; (vi) in line with point (v) above and to assure the
achievement of good quality standards, consideration should be given for a pre-qualification system of
contractors for larger civil works of similar projects in the future; (vii) the establishment of a
maintenance fund to cover O&M costs with actual support from farmers has proved to be one of the
possible solutions to the problem of project sustainability; (viii) UN agencies and international NGOs
such as ICRC can make valuable contributions in implementing project activities in areas with civil
security concerns; and (ix) for national projects involving provinces, project implementation authority
and responsibility should be devolved to provinces to the extent possible to ensure efficiency and
effectiveness.
v






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2260-CE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMVENT
A. BACKGROUND AND STATEMENT/EVALUATION OIF OBJECTIVES
Background
1.        The project was a follow-up of the previous IDA-funded Village Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (VIRP) (Cr. 1160-CE) that completed the rehabilitation of about 1,675 minor scheme4
covering about 44,000 hectares (ha) of irrigated farmlands. Implementation of the VIRP had been
adversely affected from 1985 by security problems in seven Northeastern districts. However, by the
end of 1990 and as a result of four extensions of the IDA Credit, the government had rehabilitated
about 1,675 schemes covering about 44,000 ha. In addition, some 90 schemes covering about 2,600
ha were at various stages of completion at the end of 1990. The National Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (NIRP) was first proposed in 1987 to continue rehabilitation and modernization of minor
schemes started under the VIRP. All remaining VIRP works too were scheduled to be fully completed
in 1991, using retroactive financing under the NIRP. The IDA support for the NIRP was justified as
the latter was expected to: (a) improve the capacity and efficiency of public irrigation services at the
center and in provinces; and (b) promote increased participation of farmer organizations (FOs) in
irrigation system management.
2.         The NIRP was prepared during 1988-1990, appraised in Novemaber/December 1990, and
presented to IDA's board on June 6, 1991. Subsequently, an IDA Credit consisting of SDR 21.9
million (US$29.6 million) was signed on July 24, 1991 and the Credit became effective on
October 21, 1991. The Credit, to be disbursed over a period of seven years, covered about 59 percent
of the total project cost estimated at US$49.8 million. The financing plan included IDA financing of
US$29.6 million, EU grant of US$4.0 million equivalent, and Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL)
contribution of US$16.2 million. The GOSL contribution included US$9.1 million equivalent of EU
'Food-aid' counterpart funds, and US$2.7 million equivalent to be contributed in labor, or in any other
acceptable form, by the beneficiaries of the rehabilitation and improvement works. The IDA financed
the cost of rehabilitation and improvement works, formation of farmers organizations (FOs), and
procurement of a part of vehicles and equipment. EU grant included funding for training, institutional
support and studies, environmental protection, technical assistance, and part of vehicles and
equipment. The GOSL financed the remaining project cost except for the folmation of FOs.
Project Objectives
3.         The main objectives of the NIRP were to stabilize and increase agricultural production
and incomes, and raise the standard of living of project beneficiaries through rehabilitation and
improved operation and maintenance (O&M) of existing irrigation schemes. Subsidiary objectives
included (a) upgrading the skills of farmers and staff of the implementing agencies, and (b) creating
viable FOs for managing the rehabilitated schemes. The schemes for rehabilitation were selected on
A minor scheme, by definition, commands an area less than 80 hectares. A medium scheme commands an
area between 80 hectares and 400 hectares, while a major scheme commands more than 400 hectares.
1



the basis of a selection criteria that required reaching prior agreement with the respective FOs that they
would (a) in respect of minor schemes, bear the full cost of O&M of schemes after rehabilitation and
improvements are completed, (b) in respect of major/medium schemes, bear the full cost of O&M of
distributory and field channels after the rehabilitation is completed, and (c) start bearing the cost of
O&M of headworks and main canals two years after rehabilitation is completed.
Project Components
4.        The project included the following components:
(a)  Rehabilitation  and  improvement of about  1,000  minor schemes  and
60 major/medium schemes covering about 25,000 ha and 12,500 ha respectively.
(b)  The establishment of FOs and the introduction of improved O&M practices in all
rehabilitated schemes.
(c)  Training of farmers and staff of the implementing agencies.
(d)  Environmental protection studies and works.
(e)  The establishment of three new support units (Dam Safety, Irrigation Management
Research and Civil Works quality control units) in the Irrigation Department (ID)
and the execution of socio-economic and hydrologic studies.
(f)   Consultancy  services for project planning, implementation, and  impact
assessments.
(g)  Procurement of vehicles and equipment.
Project Changes After Appraisal
5.        The target number of major/medium schemes was reduced from 60 to 35 after an IDA
review in July 1994 although the target area was increased to about 13,600 ha. After August 1997, one
more medium scheme was dropped from the schedule (Mahawewa, 100 ha) and the rehabilitation of
another scheme (Rampathwela, 118 ha) was limited to headworks. IDA did not agree to the
Borrower's request to extend the credit closing date for the total project. However, IDA agreed in
April 1998 to extend the credit closing date by six months from June 30, 1998 to December 31,1998
to enable completion of the rehabilitation work in the war affected Northern and Eastem Provinces
(Northeast), that were commenced only in August 1997 and were ongoing at that time. The credit
closing date for rest of the project remained as June 30, 1998. The final work plan included the
rehabilitation of 1,048 minor schemes with a combined command area of about 25,000 ha, and
34 medium/major schemes covering about 13,380 ha. The program included 106 minor schemes
(3,200 ha) and one major/medium scheme (1,640 ha) in the Northeast. The EU increased the grant
component in 1995 by US$ 0.5 million equivalent and set apart US$ 1.0 million equivalent under
'food-aid' grant for an 'aftercare' program to consolidtate the FOs and institutional strengthening
programs initiated under the project. GOSL provided sufficient funds under consolidated budget to
complete all ongoing civil works after the credit was partially closed in June 1998.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
6.        At the appraisal, the project's objectives were considered important and relevant in
pursuing the Irrigation Management Policy of the government, because the NIRP was designed to (a)
increase the participation and responsibilities of the farmers in irrigation system management, and
(b) reduce the role of the public sector. The government policy is to establish FOs in all irrigation
2



schemes and hand over O&M responsibility to the FOs by the year 2000. Minor schemes are to be
fully managed by the farmers, and major/medium schemes are to be jointly managed by the farmers
and the Irrigation Agencies (IAs). The role of the public sector would be gradually limited to
providing technical and institutional advice to FOs, and O&M of major facilities such as headworks
and main canals. It is in this overall context that the NIRP was considered an important intervention.
7.        However, the project objectives to stabilize and increase agricultural production by
irrigation rehabilitation and improved O&M, and to institutionalize a farmer-driven O&M
arrangement through system turnover to FOs, were too demanding and unrealistic. Within the
agriculture sector, over the last 10-15 years, there have been a stagnation in crop yield per unit of
land, total annual production, intensity of use of irrigated lands, and fanr family income. These
are consequences of the absence of a coherent agriculture sector policy environment, effectively
functioning land markets and water rights. As explained in Section 28 below, the land tenure
pattern and resulting inefficient land markets have led to under-utilization of land, non-viable land
holding sizes, low investments on new agricultural/irrigation technologies, and less profitable
subsistence level rice farming. Complete absence of water rights further compounds the problem.
These factors explain the stagnation of the domestic food crop a;griculture sector,  low
productivity and profitability of irrigated farning, farmer reluctance to diversify from rice to high
value crops, and farmers limited willingness and capacity to share rehabilitation and O&M costs.
Therefore, without a suitable sector policy environment and an up-front commitment on policy
and institutional reforms, project's social and institutional objectives were unrealistic and
demanding. Also it was too optimistic to expect significant diversification of crops, increase of
cropping intensity and yields in a sustainable manner through irrigation rehabilitation and
improved O&M alone.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.        General: Although credit was closed on December 31, 1998, the GOSL committed funds
for completion of all civil works beyond credit closure. Therefore, the project's quantitative
achievements have been evaluated in April 1999, making best judgements as to how much the GOSL
was going to disburse, how much of civil works would be completed, and what would be the resulting
increase in production. By evaluating the physical progress achieved by the end of April 1999, it was
estimated that the rehabilitation of project schemes would be completed by June 30, 1999. The
reassessment of Economic Rate of Return (ERR) included costs and benefits of all project civil works
though the disbursements would occur after IDA's credit closing date. Based on this analysis, it was
found that the project would achieve its objective of stabilizing and increasing agricultural production
and increasing income of project beneficiaries immediately after the rehabilitation. But the project
failed to create viable FOs and establish an effective and sustainable O&M system in the rehabilitated
schemes. Without viable FOs and sustainable O&M system, it is too optim istic to expect that physical
condition of the schemes would continue to remain satisfactory and that ,agricultural production and
income levels would sustain.
9.        Increase in  Cropped  Area, Cropping Intensity, and  Yields: When project
achievements are compared with the estimates at appraisal, the following are indicated: (a) as a result
of rehabilitation, total cropped area is estimated to reach some 47,500 ha, which is slightly above the
appraisal estimate of 46,000 ha; (b) average cropping intensity increased only by about 5 percent
which is low, and (c) average unhusked rice yields increased by about 38 percent, or 10 percent below
the appraisal estimate (Appendix B).
10.       Increase in Agricultural Production: At appraisal, it was envisaged that the project
would: (a) stabilize the production of about 100,000 metric tons (mt) of unhusked rice from all project
schemes, which would otherwise be lost through further deterioration; (b) increase of production by
about 20,000 mt of un-husked rice and about 5,700 mt of other field crops. The final economic
3



evaluation reveals that the production of rice has been stabilized and increased by about 25,000 mt of
unhusked rice, in line with the appraisal estimate (Part II, Table 9). There is no evidence that the
production of other field crops has increased.
11.       Rehabilitation of Irrigation Schemes: At the originally envisaged credit closing date
(June 30, 1998), 830 minor schemes and 13 major/medium schemes were completely rehabilitated,
while the rehabilitation of the remaining 218 minor schemes and 21 major/medium schemes were
ongoing. The ongoing schemes included the 106 minor schemes and one major/medium scheme in the
Northeast Province for which the credit closing date was extended by six months until December 31,
1998. At credit closure (December 31, 1998), 971 minor schemes and 22 major/medium schemes were
completed. By June 1999, the project would be able to reach the full target (1,048 minor schemes and
34 major/medium schemes with a total combined command area of about 49,000 ha).
12.       The rehabilitation works required measures to minimize environmentally harmful
activities and alleviate existing problems. To achieve this objective, the activities proposed under the
project included three categories: (a) minimizing damage to the eco-system during construction; (b)
reducing existing environmental problems; and (c) considering environmental problems at the
watershed level. The project was able to reduce existing environmental problems of the irrigation
schemes fairly satisfactorily, but overlooked most of the proposed interventions to minimize the
damage to eco-system and to consider a 'watershed' or 'sub-basin' approach. Irrigation tanks in the
country are generally arrayed in cascades. A tank cascade is a hydrologically interconnected series of
irrigation tanks organized within sub watersheds of the landscape. The project did not pay adequate
attention to the hydrological interdependence of cascades in the planning, selection and design of
rehabilitation works.
13.       Procurement and implementation of civil works: The standard specifications
developed by the Institute of Construction Training and Development (ICTAD) of Sri Lanka for
civil works and which were used for the project are not the best suitable for the nature of civil
works typical to rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes. Because the project adopted those
specifications without modifying to suit the actual project requirements, there was little flexibility
in many instances to enforce the Quality Assurance (QA) system. While this QA system was set in
place mid way after the project activities have begun, the necessary QA checks and balances could not
be enforced at optimum levels due to a number of reasons resulting in poor construction quality of
some schemes: (a) shortage of qualified and trained Work Supervisors (WSs) until mid 1997; (b)
Majority of WSs recruited and posted to field sites after mid 1997 lacked prior experience in civil
works supervision-- although they were trained on QA aspects by the CMC prior to posting to the
project sites, their contribution to the quality of works did not prove to be entirely successful; (c) the
transport facilities made available to the QA staff were not adequate; (d) although, the project
consultants were expected to certify contractor's reimbursement claims against civil works contracts,
in addition to the certifications by engineers of the implementing agencies, the project management
failed to establish and enforce this requirement fully; instead, contract payments were made only on
the certification of the engineers of the implementing agencies; and (e) When the scheduled civil
works items/quantities were completed, rehabilitation of a scheme was declared 'completed' without a
final certification of construction quality and structural safety of the completed works being issued by
the consultants (since this was not a pre-requisite indicated in the project SAR). However, it would
have been best for physical sustainability of the rehabilitated schemes, if the CMC enforced the
requirements (d) and (e) above on its initiative. Furthermore, the implementation progress could
have been improved if the CMC managed civil works contract packaging, administration, and
monitoring more systematically.
14.       Creation of Farmer Organizations: As of April 1999, FOs have been established in
all project minor schemes. In respect of the major/medium schemes, 207 distributory and field
(D&F) level FOs have been formed and Project Management Committees (PMCs) have been set
up except in one project scheme. All these FOs have been registered under Clause 56 A of the
4



Agrarian Services Act implying that they are formally accepted FOs. Of these, seven FOs in
minor schemes and seven in major/medium schemes have been registered under Clause 56 B of
the Act, meaning that they have attained legal recognition. Although not considered a project
target, FOs registered under Clause 56 B are considered to have a better chance for long-term
sustainability. Despite these quantitative achievements the organizational and financial viability of
the FOs and hence their sustainability remains weak. Independent evaluations by the Agrarian
Research and Training Institute (ART&I), Irrigation Research Management Unit (IRMU), and
International Irrigation Research Management Institute (IIMI) indicate that only a few of the
project FOs are reported to be functioning satisfactorily and overall sustainability of the FOs is
unlikely.
15.       Handing Over Rehabilitated Schemes and Improved O&1!: As of April 1999, 675
completed minor schemes (64 % of the project target) and 67 D&F systems of major/medium schemes
(32%) were reported formally handed over to the concerned FOs. Despite these quantitative
performance, the organizational and financial viability of theFOs remain uncertain. According to ICR
mission's observations, and findings of various project related research studies, handing-over process
in many schemes is supply-driven, and is symbolized with a written agreement of the handing-over
and taking-over, signed between the lAs and FOs respectively. FOs have accepted handing over
through sheer necessity rather than by conviction. Farmers willingness and capacity to fully finance
the O&M are poor. A special evaluation study financed under the prDject and carried out by
independent consultants in three completed major/medium schemes reported in November 1998 that
the O&M performance of the handed over D&F systems were poor. However, there is evidence that
many FOs could and would participate in system operation in handed over systems to a fair degree,
but it seems unlikely that they could and would bear the full cost of operation and maintenance in the
foreseeable future.
16.       A related issue was the farmers reluctance to contribute 10% of the civil cost of
rehabilitation and improvement works in labor or in any other acceptable means as envisaged by
the project. While in some major/medium schemes, the expected 10% contribution was beyond
farmers financial capacity to bear, generally farners have shown reluctance to share rehabilitation
cost. No accurate and complete records are available to quantify the actual total beneficiary
contribution to civil works.
17.       The Department of Agrarian Services (DAS) set up O&M funds in 275 minor schemes.
Farmers were encouraged and guided by the DAS to undertake civil works contracts of the project to
the extent possible. The DAS convinced each FO to contribute 5 % of profits from contracts and each
farmer to contribute Rs 500 (US$7) per hectare in cash or in kind to create the O&M fund. For each
scheme, the contribution was invested as a fixed bank deposit saving for 20 years; the FO can
withdraw money only with the joint consent of the majority of the FO members and the concerned
DAS officer. The concept is to use the six monthly interest of this saving deposit to supplement part of
the seasonal O&M costs. This is an innovative and commendable effort. The adequacy of the interest
money to supplement O&M requirements and long-term effectiveness of this arrangement need to be
evaluated yet. If successful, this arrangement would ease off the burden of D&M costs at least partly.
18.       Technical Assistance: Project consultants have performed most of their responsibilities
satisfactorily. However, although the consultant was responsible for checking and certifying
contractor's claims against civil works contracts, the project management failed to enforce that
requirement. Instead, the claims were paid on the certification of senior supervisory engineers of the
implementing agencies. The consultants produced a number of technical guidelines, design and O&M
manuals and training manuals, and developed procedures for civil works quality assurance and
monitoring. These are useful by-products of the project. In respect of institutional strengthening
support, consultants have to depend heavily on training capacity of IA, that was constrained by lack of
trainers. This resulted in a less than optimal performance of the consultants in institutional
strengthening in the field.
5



19.       Training: Overall, the achievement of the training targets is considered satisfactory. The
overseas training included three Master of Science (M.Sc.) courses and short-term training/study tours
for 243 staff persons. While the overseas long-term training (MSc) schedule was completed as
foreseen, the latter could only achieve an implementation rate of 70 percent (172 staff) because either
the suitable courses could not be identified (Women's Role in Farming Development) or there were no
funds (Irrigation Management, Institutional and Manpower Development). In-country training was
successfully conducted and included ten courses for project staff, four courses for Institutional
Organizers (IOs) and six courses for Farmer Representatives (FRs). Training of project staff was
successfully carried out recording an implementation rate of 84 percent. However, it was largely the
ID staff who have benefited from overseas training opportunities. More project training opportunities
should have been allocated to the DAS and Provincial Irrigation Agencies (PIAs) as well.
Achievement for IOs and FRs training program was not satisfactory. This is mainly because of the
delayed commencement of rehabilitation itself and the shortage of trainers in the field level. No forrnal
evaluation of quality and impact of training is available. Assistance was adequately provided under the
project for the expansion and upgrading of the four in-service training institutes in Galgamuwa,
Pothuhena, Kandy, and Bandarawela, as envisaged.
20.       Dam Safety Unit: A Dam Safety Unit was supposed to be established to assist the
Irrigation Department (ID) in carrying out regular inspections, surveillance monitoring, and preventive
maintenance of storage dams maintained by the ID. The project included provisions for training,
vehicles, equipment, expert advice, and funds to cover operating costs of the unit during the project
period. With initial support from the project consultants this unit was established in April 1994.
However, the ID was not able to activate the unit as expected, and consequently, European Union
(EU) support was limited only to short-term training in 1995. Although, dam safety monitoring is now
carried out as a routine activity by the ID under the supervision of the O&M Unit, the need to upgrade
dam safety arrangements and services still prevails.
21.       Civil Works Quality Control Unit: Provisions were made to enhance the capacity of the
Quality Control Unit of the ID, including the establishment of nine field laboratories, purchase of
vehicles, equipment and increment of operating costs during the project period. Four new field
laboratory buildings were constructed, four existing ones were renovated, and the unit was provided
with the operational support, including vehicle hire. Although, it received the equipment as late as
May 1998, it was able to put in place a comprehensive quality control system, and with the assistance
of the project consultants, to provide support to lAs as envisaged. However, the adaptation of the
system of quality assurance and quality of project's civil works in some schemes did not reach
optimum levels due to reasons explained in Section 13 above.
22.       Irrigation Research Management Unit (ERMU): As envisaged, the IRMU was set up in
1992 jointly by the ID with the support of the Intemational Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI).
However, from the inception, IRMU did not receive much support from the ID, including the
appointment of counterpart staff especially in the non-engineering disciplines. IIMI focussed its
attention in research but was not successful in fully establishing the IRMU as envisaged. During the
first four years of its life, the IRMU completed a few research studies, produced useful research
publications, and conducted a number of seminars. After IIMI completed its assignment for IRMU in
1996 it offered a no-cost extension, but the co-financier (EU) did not agree due to poor performance of
the IRMU and limited support of the ID to the IRMU. The IRMU maintains a low profile at present.
At the end, the research issues identified at appraisal yet remain to be addressed.
23.       Other Outputs and Achievements:
The project included provisions to continue the hydrological and water management
study and socio-economic study initiated and implemented under the VIRP. It also
included a Benchmark and Evaluation study in 30 minor and 9 major/medium
schemes. In view of the limited outcome of the VIRP studies, the first two studies
were not implemented under the project. The Benchmark and Evaluation study, which
6



commenced in October 1995 with the scheduled completion date in December1998
has not been completed yet.
* The project generated a number of useful operation manuals, guidelines, and templates
on rehabilitation planning and design, construction supervision, O&M, farmer
institutional strengthening and training.
* Despite the limited impact, the project strengthened the participatory irrigation
management culture amnongst the irrigation agency staff and farmers. It planted
participatory irrigation management as a principle and a mandatory role of their
technical staff.
* Although not very successful, the project created countrywide precedence for: (a)
partial rehabilitation cost recovery from beneficiaries; (b) getting the FOs involved in
construction activities to strengthen FOs financial status; and (c) O&M tumover of
rehabilitated schemes to FOs.
24.       Estimated Project Cost, Financing, and Disbursements: The total project cost is
estimated at US$44.7 million, which is about 89 percent of the original appraisal estimate. Final
overall disbursement includes IDA's US$24.6 million (83% of the original Credit Amount), EU's
grant of US$4.5 million, EU's contribution of US$9.2 million as "Food Aid" and the govermnent's
contribution, including FO's share, of US$6.4 million. Of the IDA Credit (US$29.6 million
equivalent), US$5.0 million was cancelled in October 1997 at the borrower's request. An additional
amount of approximately US$0.95 million is expected to be cancelled when the credit accounts are
closed.
25.       Economic and Financial Objectives: The project's Economric Rate of Return (ERR)
has been reassessed at 13.9 percent compared to an estimate of 31 percent at appraisal (Part II,
Table 9 and Appendix B). The main factors that have reduced the economic impact of the project
are the less than expected increases in cropping intensity and yields, and longer than expected
implementation period. The reduced production benefits are attributable to inadequate agricultural
policies and farmer incentives (Section 28), while the delays in implementation were mainly due
to delays caused by the late appointment of project consultants and mobilization of project staff
and resources in the early years of the project, and weak cash-flow management in the later years
(Section 29). The ex-post financial analysis, details of which are given in Appendix B, indicates
increases in net farm income ranging from 28 percent to 50 percent. Although considered
satisfactory at farm level, these results are below appraisal estimates, which corresponded to a
range from 109 percent to 308 percent (Table 5.2, SAR). The ERR was calculated assuming
adequate post-rehabilitation maintenance of the completed works. However, this is considered
unlikely. A sensitivity analysis was carried to assess the ERR assuming 20% reduction in
production phased over time due to poor maintenance. For that scenario, the ERR is 10% which
is considered marginal.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
26.       Project Implementation Record: The project was expected to commence in
January 1992, but could not take off until May 1993 due to delays in appointment of project
consultants (Section 29). With this initial setback, the overall project implementation remained poor
until the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in March 1995. The implementation pace accelerated after the
MTR remedial measures. The overall project implementation pace was satisfactory by the credit
closing date, but the implementation progress, particularly in respect of the physical rehabilitation
program and handing over, remained behind the targets. However, it is estimated that all project civil
works would be completed by June 30, 1999. Despite heavy project investments on civil works and
7



institutional strengthening of the FOs, the 'software' achievements of the project remain below
expectations. The factors that affected the project are as following.
27.       Factors Not Generally Subject to Government or Implementing Agency Control:
Delayed heavy Northeast monsoon rains in four consecutive years (1994-1997) obliged the farmers to
opt for an early yala (dry season) cultivation in the following year reversing their consent to forego
one cultivation to permit rehabilitation works. The tense security situation prevented the
commencement of project activities in the Northeast Province until mid-1997. Also, the general strike
of the Technical Officers of the ID for 3 months during July-September 1997 affected the civil works
progress of all major/medium schemes and about 300 minor schemes.
28.       Factors Generally Subject to Government Control: Bank's agriculture sector studies in
Sri Lanka conclude that lack of active land markets seriously constrain long-term agriculture sector
performance. Government owns about 55% of non-plantation agriculture lands mainly in
major/medium irrigation schemes. Although lands under minor schemes are mostly privately owned,
most of those lands do not have clear legal titles. Population pressure and societal inheritance practices
have caused substantial land fragmentation of both private and state lands under those schemes,
leaving average farm size below economically viable threshold. While, 72 % of farms are below one
hectare, widespread informal multiple co-ownership and further fragmentation in privately owned land
have resulted in decrease in effective farm size. According to. the findings of the Bank's study on
'Non-plantation Crop Sector Policy Alternatives (March 1996), farmers' inability to buy/sell land and
to expand farm size leads to a situation of small part-time farmers dependent for a substantial part of
their farm family income from off-farm employment. In this situation, the combination of low
productive subsistence rice farming and off-farm employment provides the greatest income-earning
opportunity. These factors reduce interest in diversification of crops, specialize in commercial
agriculture, and explain low productivity and profitability of irrigated farming. This situation,
compounded by complete absence of water rights, provides limited incentives to farmers for sharing
O&M costs or taking over full O&M responsibility of irrigation assets. Until and unless these core
policy issues are adequately addressed by the Government, it is difficult to contemplate successful
O&M turnover, substantial improvements in crop diversification, sustainable increases in agricultural
production and farner income. Neither the Government nor the Bank adequately addressed the
implications of these issues on the project development objectives at the project design, appraisal and
during implementation.
29.       Project start-up was delayed by 18 months due to the government holding up the approval
of local partner of the duly selected project consultants, which seems to be politically motivated. This
in turn delayed the reappointment of the selected consultants by 18 months. The Provincial Irrigation
Agencies, which were in infancy at the time of scheduled commencement of project activities, could
not mobilise their resources fully as expected to enable a quick take-off. Also, the government's weak
cash flow management after 1996 caused shortfalls in the availability of project funds to meet project
expenditures at crucial periods of the construction of civil works.
30.       Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control: At project inception, the
Project's Central Management Cell (CMC) failed to ensure timely project readiness conditions. The
CMC was set up in one of the implementing agencies (ID) and ID engineer was appointed the Project
Director. This project management design and choice of the PD resulted in the CMC being under
bureaucratic control of the IDs top management; this, in turn, resulted in restricted independence and
autonomy of the CMC to ensure timely project readiness conditions, manage project activities
efficiently and effectively, and allocate project resources, facilities, and training opportunities
equitably among the ID, DAS, and seven provincial irrigation agencies. Weak procurement
management initially by the CMC resulted in the delivery of the first batch of project vehicles and
equipment under IDA financing in 1993, two years behind schedule, leading to reduced mobility of
project staff. The CMC, together with the Implementing Agencies (lAs) and the project consultants,
should have been more vigilant and responsive to ensure high quality of civil works and strongFOs.
The project implementation progress benefited by periodic quantitative reviewing and approving of
8



project work plans by the Project Co-ordination Committee (PCC), chaired by the Secretary to the
Ministry of Irrigation. However, the PCC was not effective in qualitative monitoring and evaluation
with respect to the FO development, project sustainability issues, and providing policy guidance and
strategic directions to the CMC. The Provincial Project Co-ordination Committees (PPCCs) too were
not effective in addressing policy and strategic issues of the project.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
31.       The project has achieved its objectives of stabilising and increasing agricultural
production, as demonstrated in ex-post financial and economic analysis (Appendix B). A large number
of FOs have been formed, and O&M responsibility of many completed minor schemes and a few D&F
systems of major/medium schemes have been handed to those FOs. Although the ERR reassessment
shows acceptable returns assuming adequate maintenance of the completed works, the project has
resulted in much smaller effects on increasing cropping intensity and yields, creating viableFOs, and
institutionalising a sustainable O&M system for the rehabilitated schemes as; envisaged. Consequently,
the sustainability of physical status of the rehabilitated schemes, agricultural production, and farmer
income levels, is unlikely. As indicated in Section 25, the ERR is marginal (10%) in the event of
reduction in agricultural production phased over time due to poor maintenance.
32.       Related to the issue of sustainability are the farmers' willingness, capacity, and
commitment to undertake the O&M responsibilities. The O&M of minor schemes are usually not
very complex and therefore with further institutional and technical support, the FOs would be able
to operate and maintain those schemes without much difficulty. But in respect of the
major/medium schemes, where the O&M is relatively heavier, it is doubtful whether the farmers
would be willing and capable of undertaking the full responsibilities even of the D&F canal
systems. At most, the FOs appear to be willing to and capable of operating the D&F systems and
participating in some labour-intensive maintenance tasks under the technical guidance of lAs, but
not in providing inputs in cash or in kind to finance full maintenance costs even of D&F systems.
The project's expectation that FOs would take over the full O&M responsibility of headwork's
and main canals starting two years after the rehabilitation works are completed, seems to be
highly unrealistic and would not be met in the foreseeable future. Among many others, reasons for
this situation seem to be the low productivity and profitability of present irrigated farming,
complex land tenure problems, and lack of a strong commitment for the system turnover and cost
recovery by all concerned parties. As a result, the project sustainability is rated unlikely.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
33.       The Bank was not directly involved in project identification/preparation. The government
prepared the project with technical assistance from a team of local consultants, under the guidance of
the World Bank Resident Mission. The Bank supported the government's project preparation efforts
because it was consistent with the government's irrigation subsection strategy at that time which
emphasised completing projects under construction, and preserving and improving performance of
existing irrigation schemes to stabilise and increase agricultural production. The project was consistent
with the IDA assistance strategy, which supported those government subsection policies and
strategies. Therefore, the Bank's performance in project identification/ preparation assistance is rated
satisfactory.
34.       Many factors that were not adequately addressed at project appraisal had a negative effect
on project's sustainability. The feasibility of achieving the project's development objective should
have been carefully analysed in the context of the agriculture sector policy environment and land and
water rights issues. At the project design, the Bank overestimated the organizational and financial
viability of FOs, and farmers' willingness and capacity to take over the O&M responsibilities.
Particularly, the expectation that FOs would take over O&M responsibility of headwork's and main
9



canals of major/medium schemes was not realistic. The project overlooked in the design, one of the
main lessons learned from the VIRP that emphasised that " ....the formation of FOs should come
before physical implementation....." (ICR June 1992). Instead, the project was designed to form FOs
and rehabilitate schemes simultaneously. By design, the project implementation management was
vested at the center with the ID. Given the national coverage, project implementation would have
been more efficient and effective, if implementation management authority was delegated to provinces
with the appointment of field-based, provincial-level, deputy project directors. Preparatory work on
staff requirement to implement civil works was not adequate. The project design overlooked the need
to engage a cadre of work supervisors at construction work sites to oversee civil works. This caused
difficulties and delays in the civil works progress during the first four years. In view of this, Bank's
performance in project design and appraisal is rated deficient.
35.       The Bank carried out eleven project supervision missions including a combined IDA/EU
MTR in May 1995. Early Bank supervision missions identified main physical implementation
constraints and took early action to alleviate these. Considerable flexibility, especially after MTR from
both IDA and the government, made it possible for the project to accelerate the project implementation
pace and progress. However, all supervision missions did not address project's sustainability in the
context of the prevailing sector policy environment, and consequently allowed the project to be
completed without accomplishing most of its social and institutional objectives. The mission timing
and reporting on the implementation problems, progress, likely development impact, and the
performance ratings were satisfactory. The composition of the supervision missions showed a marked
bias towards engineering inputs at the expense of other complementary disciplines such as agronomy
and FO institutional development, which seems to be due to the heavy engineering component of the
project. The project supervision responsibility was shifted from the headquarters to the field office in
August 1997 following the South Asia Region's renewal policies. Toward the end of the project, the
Bank could activate the dormant project activities in the areas affected by civil disturbances in the
Northeast Province through back-up supervision and monitoring arrangement with the offices of the
International Committee of Red Cross (ICRC) and the United Nations High Commission for Refugees
(UNHCR). The ICRC collaborated by liaising with the field security authorities and facilitating the
movement of project staff and construction materials to project sites where there were security
restrictions. Both the ICRC and UNHCR provided periodic monitoring reports to Bank's field office
on project implementation progress and issues. In view of this, the project supervision is rated
partially satisfactory.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.       As mentioned, the borrower prepared the project with the assistance from  local
consultants and the Bank's major project preparation requirements were satisfactorily addressed. But
there were a few shortcomings in the detailed design, which have been reflected as lessons learned
under chapter I of this report. The Borrower's performance in project implementation was mixed. The
project implementation pace and progress were unsatisfactory from the inception, but improved
substantially toward the end of the project. The main factors contributed to this situation have been
described in Sections 27-30. Besides, a few other factors affected the Borrower's implementation
performance:
(a)  Project management responsibility and authority were concentrated at the centre,
although the project was of a national nature heavily involving the provincial
councils.
(b)  Although the National Steering Committee reviewed and monitored physical
project work plans and progress satisfactorily, it overlooked the effects of sector
policy issues on project design, implementation, and sustainability.
(c)  Most Provincial Project Co-ordination Committees were not very effective.
10



(d)  Project monitoring of physical progress was satisfactory but monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) of the 'software' aspects of the project were deficient.
(e)  The quality of civil works is not up to expectations in some schemes, despite the
heavy investments and technical assistance provided for quality assurance under
the project.
The Borrower's compliance with accounting, financial reporting, auditing, procurement,
and progress reporting requirements was satisfactory. The legal covenant that envisaged the
submission to IDA by the borrower of plans for organizational arrangements for the irrigation sector
and timetable for implementation of recommendations for organizational arrangements (Paragraph 2
of Schedule 4 of DCA), was amended in April 1997. It was agreed by both parties that in view of the
on-going works of National Water Council on water policy formulation, the time was not opportune
for reorganization of the public irrigation sector. However, the amendment required the borrower to
keep IDA informed on a quarterly basis, of developments in its organization of the public irrigation
sector; IDA received only the first quarterly report. The co-operation between the government and the
IDA remained firm through the implementation period in spite of GOSL disappointment at the IDA
decision to extend the credit closing date only by six months and only in respect of the works in the
Northeast.
G. ASSESSMENT OF THE OUTCOME
37.       The overall outcome of the project is rated unsatisfactory. The project succeeded in
achieving its physical targets and raising agricultural production and incomes of project beneficiaries
at least initially. However, it has not yielded and is not expected to establish an effective and
sustainable O&M system for the rehabilitated project schemes. O&M of the rehabilitated schemes
would remain highly dependent on external financial support. Given Government's poor fiscal strength
to fully finance O&M, weak organisational viability of FOs, and lack of farmer's willingness to
contribute to O&M, there is the expectation that the rehabilitated schemes would deteriorate and
production levels would decline soon.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
38.       The Government has allocated funds to enable completion of all project schemes, whose
completion dates were beyond the credit closure on June 30, 1998 for the schemes outside the
Northeast Province. Also, the Government has secured financial assistance from the EU for an
"aftercare" program until December 31, 1999 to consolidate the FO development and institutional
development programs initiated by the project.
39.       Despite the unsatisfactory outcome, the NIRP is a major country-wide attempt of the
government to set in place a sustainable O&M system in the irrigation sector. It provides a wealth of
lessons and experiences in relation to formation and strengthening of FOs, and O&M handing over
process. The project should, therefore, be considered a learning experience for understanding the
feasibility and desirability of the present irrigation management policies of the government. It is
therefore recommended that the Bank, together with the government, carry out a post-project impact
evaluation on the status of the FOs formed under the project, effectiveness of the 'O&M funds', status
of the O&M of the handed over schemes, and the role of irrigation agencies in irrigation management
with a view to revisit the present irrigation sector policies and strategies.
I. LESSONS LEARNED
40.       The NIRP is the first country-wide project aimed to ensure the sustainability of irrigation
schemes through rehabilitation and improved O&M and creation ofFOs to managing the rehabilitated
11



schemes. Although the project is not likely to achieve its development objectives fully, the planning,
design, implementation, and outcome of the project provide a useful leaming experience both for the
Borrower and Bank.
* The main lesson is that without up-front commitments on agriculture sector policy and
related institutional reforms, it is difficult to achieve successful irrigation investment
projects.
* A situation of low productivity and profitability of irrigated farmning systems
inhibits the development of viable FOs, and establishment of beneficiary-driven,
sustainable O&M arrangement in the irrigation subsector.
*  Forming FOs and carrying out irrigation rehabilitation at the same time does not work
well. Before starting rehabilitation works, it is essential to maintain, for at least a year,
an effective institutional support aiming at establishing well-motivatedFOs and self-
sustaining agricultural input services..
* Improvements to one scheme affect the hydrology and water availability at other
downstream schemes in tank cascade systems. This factor needs to be adequately
analysed in scheme selection, planning, and design for future irrigation rehabilitation
projects.
e It is essential to develop and enforce pragmatic civil works specifications, contract
packaging, administration, and quality assurance systems suitable for rehabilitation to
ensure effective implementation of irrigation rehabilitation.
* To assure the achievement of good quality civil works standards, consideration should
be given for a pre-qualification system of contractors for larger civil works of similar
projects in the future.
* The establishment of a maintenance fund to cover O&M  costs with actual support
from farmers has proved to be one of the possible solutions to solve the problem of
project sustainability. This approach should be studied further.
* UJN agencies such as UNHCR and International NGOs (ICRC) can make valuable
contributions in implementing project activities in areas with civil security concerns.
The Bank and the borrower should elicit their participation to the greatest degree
possible in the design and implementation of lending operations covering areas
affected by civil disturbances.
* For national projects involving provinces, implementation management responsibility
and authority should be devolved to provinces to the extent possible to ensure
effectiveness and efficiency.
12



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 2260-CE)
PART II - Statistical Tables



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial    Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
(41)         (W()                      (W)
Macro policies                     Ei                                      E [  [
Sector policies                     L            L           [3             L
Financial objectives                LiI                      [I            [
Institutional development           L                        [Z L1
Physical objectives                [3i                       [
Poverty reduction                   L                         Li            Li
Gender issues                        C            n           Li
Other social objectives             Li           L           [3K 
Environmental objectives              i         [I            [fl          ED
Public sector management            l   l                     Li            Li
Private sector development            i                      E] E1 
Other (specify)                                  L                         17]
B. Project sustainability          Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(1)          (1)          (/)
Highly
C. Bank performance             Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(V)         0()           (I)
Identification                    L            e7 1Li
Preparation assistance            L            EK           Li
Appraisal                         L            L            [K
Supervision                       L                         Li
14



Table 1: Summary of Assessments (continued)
D. Borrower performance            Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
)            (If()        (se)
Preparation                        L            [7           [3
Implementation                     LI]           E            E3Z1
Covenant compliance                              E            E37
Operation (if applicable)           Ei          L            L
Highy                                        Highy
E. Assessment of outcome         Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Unsatis-factory   unsatisfactory
(5)            ()
1 5



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                   Purpose                      Year of         Status"
approval
Preceding operations
1. Mahaweli Ganga     To increase agricultural production and standard   January 1970  Completed
Development Project,   of living of about 53,000 families by providing            (Dec. 1979)
Stage I               supplemental irrigation water to about 51,000 ha
Cr. 174-CE/Ln. 653-CE   of existing irrigated land and full irrigation of
(US$ 29 million)      about 42,000 ha of new land to be developed in
subsequent stages. To be achieved by
construction of head works, diversion dams and
tunnels at Polgolla and Bowatenne, and of a 40
MW power plant at Polgolla.
2. Tank Irrigation    To improve irrigation supply, reduce seepage  Nov. 1976      Completed
Modernization Project   losses, provide inputs, strengthen agricultural            (June 1983)
Cr. 666-CE            extension and water management in five major
(US$ 5 million)      tank schemes in the dry zone.
3. Second Mahaweli    To increase paddy production and employment  April 1977      Completed
Ganga Development     of about 27,000 farm families in the Mahaweli               (June 1985)
Project               System area (28,000 ha), and provide productive
Cr. 701-CE            support and social services throughout the whole
(US$ 19 million)      system area.
4. Kurunegala         To raise productivity, employment, incomes and  1979         Completed
Integrated Rural      living standards of the rural population through            (Dec. 1985)
Development Project    an integrated package of investments and
Cr. 891-CE            institutional improvements.
(US$20 million)
5. Mahaweli Ganga     To support the Government's efforts to     January 1980      Completed
Technical Assistance    accelerate implementation of the Mahaweli                 (Sept. 1985)
Project               development program by assisting with studies
Cr. 979-CE            to select the best plan for a future transbasin
(US$ 3 million)       diversion project and to provide detailed
engineering design for downstream development.
6. Village Irrigation  To support rehabilitation of 1,200 village  June 1981       Completed
Rehabilitation Project   irrigation schemes, modernization of about 500           (Dec. 1990)
Cr. 1160-CE           other small schemes, strengthening of
(US$ 30million)       government institutions involved in village.
irrigation, and initiation of a systematic water
management program.
7. Third Mahaweli     To increase agricultural production providing  June 23, 1981    Completed 1994
Ganga Development    irrigation infrastructure for about 28,000 ha,                PCR dated
Project               clear jungle, settle farmers, assist on-farm                Nov. 22, 1993
Cr. 1166-CE           development, construct roads and social
(IJS$90 million)     infrastructure and establish fuelwood plantations.
8. Third Rural        To increase productivity, employment, income  05/12/83
Development Project    and living standards in the districts of Mannar
Cr. 1363-CE (US$ 23    and Vavuniya.
million)
16



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits (Continued)
Loan/credit title                   Purpose                       Year of          Statusa/
approval
9. Major Irrigation    To rehabilitate existing irrigation infrastructure  Dec. 1984  Completed
Rehabilitation         and to address water management issues and                    (June 1993)
Cr. 1537-CE            irrigation practices in order to achieve a more
(SDR 17 million)       efficient use of water.
Following operations
1. Mahaweli            To shift the focus of the Mahaweli Authority of  July 1997     Ongoing
Restructuring and      Sri Lanka from a construction agency to a river
Rehabilitation Project    basin management agency, and to improve
Cr. 3058-CE            agricultural productivity of Mahaweli system
(SDR 41.7 million)    "H" through rehabilitation and improved O&M.
2. Northeast Irrigated  To help conflict-affected communities of the  tJnder
Agriculture Project   Northeast province and adjoining areas to re-  preparation
establish normal life through assistance to jump
start agricultural production, and build their
capacity for sustainable social and economic
development.
al Figures in brackets indicate actual or expected closing date.
17



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned             Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)
Preparation                                      September 1989       Dec. 1989/Jan. 1990
Appraisal                                        February 1990        Nov./Dec. 1990
Negotiations                                     August 1990           April 22-25, 1991
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                               June 18, 1991         June 6, 1991
Signing                                                               July 24, 1991
Effectiveness                                                          October 21, 1991
First tranche release (if applicable)            n.a.                  n.a.
Mid-term review (if applicable)                                        May 1995
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)  n.a.              n.a.
Project completion                               December 31, 1997    June 30, 1999
Loan closing                                     June 30, 1998         December 31, 1998b/
aH Held in Washington. A representative of EEC participated as observer in the negotiations.
b/ Only in respect of the works in the NE. The original closing date of June 30, 1998 was maintained for the rest of
the project.
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96   FY97    FY98   FY99
Appraisal estimate         2.0      3.9      9.4      15.0     20.6    25.6      29.6
Actuala/                   -        2.2      2.7      4.3       7.8     11.3      19.3    24.6
Actualas%ofestimate       ...      56.4      28.7    28.7      37.9    44.1      65.2    83.1
Date of final disbursement:  May 11, 1999
a/ As of 11 May 1999.
18



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Implementation            Unit   Planned      Planned      Actual          Comments
Indicators in SAR                   (SAR)   Restructuring
Civil Works
- Rehabilitation and Improv. Works
(i) Minor Schemes                 Nb.       1,000      1,048        1,048   Of which 830 schemes
completed by June 1998
and 971 by the end
December 1998. All
schemes would be
completed by June 30,
1999.
(ii) Medium/Major Schemes         Nb.         60         35            341  22 schemes completed as
of Feb. 28, 1999. The
remaining 12 schemes
would be completed by
June 30, 1999.
- Tanks (Reservoirs)               Nb.        700                      483
- Anicuts (Diversions)             Nb.        300                      565
- Command Area (Minor Schemes)     ha      25,000      29,0002      25,000
- Command Area (Med./Major Sch.)    ha.     12,500      13,608      13,390'
- Training Centres                 Nb.          4                        4   Expansion and upgrading
of three existing centres
and construction of a new
one in Pothuhena
Farmers Organizations
- Registered under 56A
Minor Schemes                   Nb.       1,000                    1,048   Scheme level
organizations.
Medium/Major Schemes            Nb.       n.a.                      207    Distributory and Field
(D&F) canal
!                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~organizations
- Registered under 56B
Minor Schemes                   Nb.       n.a.                        7
Medium/Major Schemes            Nb.       n.a.                        7
Training
- Overseas
(i) Masters Degree Courses        Nb.          3                        3
(ii) Short-Term Courses
Moderniz. of Irrig. System  Nb. of        2                        2   Not appropriate for senior
particip.                                   staff
Dam-Safety                                I                        -   Lack of funds
Inigation System Manag.                  48                       30   Satisfactory
Rehabilitation Design                    25                       2.5   Good for junior staff, not
approp. for senior staff
Environmental Issues                      2                        -   Considered not necessary
. O&M                         "          30                       24   Satisfactory
Women's Role in Farming                   4                        -   A suitable course could
Development                                                             not be found
Institutional Development                22                       22   Satisfactory
Inst. Dev./Farmer Organ.                 32                       32   Satisfactory
Of the revised work plan one scheme (Mahawewa of 101 ha) was dropped in 1997; only headworks were
included in the program for another scheme. (Rampathwela of 118 ha).
2 Including 106 schemes (3,200 ha) in the Northeast Province.
19



. Project Management                       I                        1   Useful
. Financial Management                     3                        3   Useful.
. Training of Trainers                     3                        3   Useful
h Institut. Development                   30                       30   Satisfactory
. Irrigation Management                   30                        -   Lack of funds
Institut. & Manpower Dev.               10                        -   Lack of funds
Total                                    243                      172
- In-Country
(i) Staff- Minor Schemes         p/day     4,384                    3,688
- Med./Maj. Schemes      p/day     6,600                    5,544
(ii) lAs - Minor Schemes         p/day    11,231                    7,204
- Med./Maj. Schemes      p/day     3,027                      826
(iii) Farm's Reps - Minor Schemes    p/day    62,505               43,524
- Med./Maj. Schemes      p/day    21,444                    8,900
(iv) Farmers - Minor Schemes     p/day    24,384                   20,007
- Med./Maj. Schemes      p/day     4,950                    2,778
Technical Assistance
- Intemational Recruited         p/month       50                     115.5
- Locally recruited Professional  p/month    1,020                   1,237.0
Staff
-Locally recruited Mid Level Staff   p/month    1,080                1,015.0
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.   Key operating indicators in
SAR/Presidents Report                Estimated                        Actual
Not identified at appraisal.
20



Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defned
Study             at appraisal/redefmed          Status            Impact of study
1. Benchmark and       To assess schemes         Inception and         As the benchmark study
Evaluation.         conditions prior to       Benchmark studies     results were available in
rehabilitation and        completed and final   1996, its impact on
introduction of improved  reports accepted in   rehabilitation planning
O&M practices. Four special  August 1996. Final  was limited. Final
studies were initiated during  impact evaluation is in  evaluation study results
implementation focusing on   progress but not   is not available yet.
O&M, FOs and              completed yet.        Special evaluation study
implementation delays                           reports generated
information on status of
O&M, FOs and
implementation delays
2. Hydrological and    To optimize the use of water  Not Implemented.      See item 8 below.
Water Management   resources through better   Deemed unnecessary in
Study.              management                view of the studies
conducted by IRMU
3. Socio-economic      In-depth monitoring and   Not implemented.        See item labove and
Study.              analysis of changes due to    Deemed unnecessary in   items 5 and 6 below
the project: changes in farn   view of the impact
production, incomes,      evaluation study and
irrigation practices and the    studies conducted by
effectiveness of institutional  IRMU
arrangements for
rehabilitation and O&M in
the sample schemes
4. Assessment of       Not identified at appraisal    Completed in 1997  Useful study highlight-
turnover process in    and included during                          ing status and problems
NIRP schemes.       implementation . Conducted                      related to FOs, O&M
by AR&TI                                        performance and
turnover process.
Provided useful
background information
for the ICR
5. Monitoring farmers'   Not identified at appraisal    Completed in 1995  Provided information on
involvement in      and included during                             farmers' involvement in
rehabilitation (Phase  implementation. Initiated                     rehabilitation. However,
I). Study of five   and conducted by IRMU.                          corrective measures
irrigation schemes                                                  were not taken by the
under NIRP.                                                          project based on this
information.
21



6. Monitoring farmers'   Not identified at appraisal    Completed in 1997  Provided information on
involvement in      and included during                             farmers' involvement in
rehabilitation (Phase  implementation. Initiated                    rehabilitation.
II) and farmer      and conducted by IRMU.                           Corrective measures
participation in                                                    were not taken by the
rehabilitation.                                                      project based on this
information.
7. Rehabilitation of NIRP Not identified at appraisal    Completed in 1995  Provided information on
schemes: farmers'    and included during                            farmers' involvement in
perspectives.       implementation. Initiated                       rehabilitation.
and conducted by IRMU.                          Corrective measures
were not taken by the
project based on this
information.
8. Hydrology of Small   To optimise use of water  Completed in 1998     Study results were
Catchments.         resources in catchments                         available in 1998. It was
(watersheds)                                                        too late to incorporate
recommendations into
rehabilitation planning
& design.
22



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)           Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign      Total        Local        Foreign      Total
Costs       costs                    costs        Costs
I.Rehabilitation and     27.6          3.7        31.3                                   29.1
Improvement Works
2.Farmer Organization      2.7         -           2.7                                    2.1
3.Training                 0.9         1.4         2.3                                    1.6
4. Environmental           1.0          -           1.0                                          l
Protection
5. Institutional Support   2.7         1.1         3.8                                    3.0
and Studies
6. Technical Assistance    4.5         0.6         5.1                                    6.4
7.Vehicles and Equip.      1.8         1.8         3.6                                    2.5
TOTAL                   41.2          8.6        49.8         36.6a1         8.1a/      44.7
a/ Mission's estimate.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)          Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign       Total        Local        Foreign      Total
costs      Costs                    Costs,.       Costs
Source
IDA                            25.0        4.6         29.6         21.0         3.6a'       24.6
EU (formerly EEC)                -          4.0         4.0           -          4.5           4.5
EU Food Aid                      9.2        -           9.2           9.2        -             9.2
GOSL                             7.0        -           7.0           6.4        -             6.4a
TOTAL                          41.2         8.6        49.8          36.65       8.1         44.7
a/ Mission's estimate
23



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Unit        SAR Estimates       ICR Estimates
A. Project Beneficiaries                        No.             100,000              85,000
B. Command Area
- Minor Schemes                               ha             25,000               25,000
- Medium/Major Schemes                        ha             12,500               13,390
C. Incremental Rice Paddy Production            Tons            25,700              25,100
D. Increases in Cropping Intensity
at Full Development
- Kaltota                                     %                25                   2
- Mahagal Wewa                                %                48                   2
- Dorakada Liyadde                            %                42                   2
- Kobeigane                                   %                51                   7
- Mahakiri Ibbewa                             %                87                   7
- Nittewa                                     %                65                   7
E. Economic Rate of Return'                      %               31.0                 13.9
F. Increases of Net Farm Income2
- Kaltota                                     %                307                  36
- Mahagal Wewa                                %                180                  36
- Dorakada Liyadde                            %                135                  28
- Kobeigane                                   %                120                  47
- Mahakiri Ibbewa                             %                183                  48
- Nittewa                                     %                109                  50
The economic analysis at appraisal was carried out for the project as a whole and for the six appraised
schemes of Kaltota, Mahagal Wewa, Dorakada Liyadde, Kobeigane, Mahakiri Ibbewa and Nittewa. Because
of lack of data, the economic analysis at project completion could only be carried for the project as a whole.
However, as indicated above, an ex-post-fmancial analysis was carried out for the six selected schemes as
envisaged at appraisal. Detailed description of the economic analysis is presented in Appendix B.
2 An ex-post financial analysis has been carried out to assess the achievement of the stated project objectives. In
line with the approach used at appraisal, farm budgets were prepared for six sample schemes namely Kaltota
and Mahagal Wewa for the medium/major schemes and Dorakada Liyadde, Kobeigane, Mahakiri Ibbewa and
Nittewa for minor schemes. Corresponding basic data was provided by DAS and CMC and are based on a study
carried out during the course of the project. As regard to minor irrigation scheme parameters, ten tank schemes
and ten anicut schemes were considered under the study and selection was done starting from samples in
1992/1993 in the various districts where project activities were implemented. The selection was considered by
DAS fairly representative as far as the NIRP is concerned. Detailed farm income analysis is given in Appendix
B.
24



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant Present  fulfillment  fulfilment       Description of
Agreement   Section      class    status     date        date            Covenant               Comments
1. Credit     2.02(b)      I        C                      -      Maintain Project Special   PSA has been opened.
C 22600                                                        Account (PSA)            Became functional in
Feb. 1993
4.01(b)
(i)      I        C          -           -      Have the records and
accounts referred to in para
(a) in accordanca with
appropriate auditing
principles
I   (ii)   I        CD                            Furnish the Association not
later than 9 months after
the end of each year a
certified copy of audit
reports
6.01       11        C       21/10/91       -      EEC Grant Agreement     Fulfilled
signing and submission of
1992 work plan to be
condition of effectiveness
Schedule 4,    5        C       30/06/94       -      Work programme, budget  Fulfilled
para I                                              and staff requirements for
the following field year
Schedule 4,    12     SOON    30/06/94         -      Submit plans for        Amended in April 1997.
pam 2(a)                                            reorganization of irrigation Amended covenant not
sector                  fulfilled.
Schedule4,    12      NYD       31/12/92       -      Submit timetab]le for   Amended in April 1997.
para 2(b)                                           implementation of        Amended covenant not
reorganization          fulfilled.
Schedule 4,    5       CD      31/12/92        -      Appoint consultants for the Project consultants were
para 3                                             project                  in place since Oct 1992
Schedule 4,    10       C       31/12/92    30/04/93   Submit proposads for   Submitted to both IDA
para 4                                             inspection of dams, etc.    and EEC in 1993
Schedule 4,    10       C          -           -      Selection of schemes in    Fulfilled
para 5                                             accordance with specified
criteria
Status:  C     - Complied with
CD    - Compliance after Delay
NC    - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP    - Complied with Partially
NYD - Not Yet Due
Covenant Class
1. Accounts/audit
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3. Flow and utilization of Project funds
4. Counterpart funding
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13. Other
25



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title         I    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No deviation from applicable operational manual statements observed. However, OD 10.6 (revised OP/BP 10.02
was only partially compiled with since a detailed review of the financial systems was not conducted at the time of
appraisal.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                        Planned                  Revised                  Actual
project cycle                   P
Weeks         US$         Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$
Preparation to                                                                14.3       33.4
Appraisal
Appraisal                                                                     51.1       77.7
Negotiations through                                                          30.9       47.3
Board approval
Supervision                                                                  148.2      286.3
Completion                                                                    10.0       45.0
TOTAL                    274.8         636.8       274.8       636.8        158.2      331.3
26



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance r
Stage of                          Number                  Specialized      Implemen-      Develop-
project cycle        Month/           of       Days in       staff skills      tation        ment         Types of
year         persons     Field      representedt        Status      objectives    problenie
Identificatione
Preparation"            Dec. 1989/       n.a.       n.a            n.a.
Jan.1990
Pre-Appraisal
Appraisal            Nov./Dec. 1990       6         n.a            n.a.
Supervision:
I                  May 1991           4          10        IE,IE,AE,AE           I
2                   Oct. 1991         5          10       IE,IE,AE,AE,T          I             I            TA
3                April/May 1992       2          16           IE,IE              2             1          P, T, TA
4                  Sept. 1992         3          11          IE,IE,IE            2             1          P, T, TA
5               March/April 1993      3          10         IE, IE, AE           2             2         P, T, TA
6                  Nov. 1993          2          15           IE, AE             2             2        P, T, TA, F
7                   July 1994         4          10        IE,AE,SS,,IE         U             U         P, T, TA, F
8 (MTR)             May 1995          5          15      IE,AE,AEIE,IE          U             U         P, T, TA, F
9                April/May 1996       3          11        IE,AE,AE              S            U           P,F.L
10                Nov./Dec. 1996       2          14          IE,IE              S             U             L
ICRe1'               June/July 1998       2          12           E, E               S            U
a/ P: Procurement Progress; F: Financial Performance; T: Training Progress; E: Environmental Aspects;
TA: Technical Assistance; M: Management; S: Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory; L: Legal Covenant.
bl AE: Agricultural Economist; E- Economist, IE: Irrigation Engineer; SS- Social Scientist; T: Training
Specialist;
'- Carried out by a project preparation cell comprised of ID and DAS staff assisted by consultants.
d/ The updating of the draft ICR prepared by FAO/CP in July 1997 was carried out by a joint IDA and FAO/CP
mission in December 1998.
27



APPENDIX A
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2260-CE)
AIDE- MEMOIRE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Mission comprising Messrs. Raffaele Suppa (Economist, FAO/CP) and Nihal
Fernando (Irrigation Engineer) carried out the final supervision of the implementation of the National
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (NIRP) and gathered material to initiate drafting of the project's
Implementation Completion Report (ICR), during June 22-July 3, 1998.
2.        The mission had initial discussions with key staff including the Secretary, Ministry of
Irrigation and Power (S/MIP), Project Director and Project Consultants and made field visits to
Central, North-Central and North-Western Provinces. The mission had meetings in the provinces with
the senior project staff of the Irrigation Department (ID), Provincial Irrigation Agencies (PIAs),
Department of Agrarian Services (DAS), Project Consultants of the Regional Support Teams (RSTs)
and farmers. Contacts were also made with the Director General of the External Resources
Department (Ministry of Finance), District Secretaries of Mannar, Mulativu and Vavuniya of the
Northeast province, International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI), Agrarian Research and
Training Institute (AR&TI), Heads of the Irrigation Research Management Unit (IRMU), Quality
Control (QC), Irrigation Management and Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Divisions of the ID.
The mission would like to thank all the staff, including the Project Director, project staff, consultants,
and farmers for the support extended and for the good working relationships established.
3.        This Aide-Memoire summarizes the mission's observations, main  issues, and
recommendations discussed at the wrap-up meeting held on July 2, 1998, chaired by Mr Jaliya
Medagama, S/MIP.
Project Background
4.        The project was a follow-up to the previous IDA funded Village Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project (VIRP) (Cr. 1160 CE), which covered the rehabilitation of about 1,675 minor schemes
covering about 44,000 ha of irrigated farm lands. The NIRP was first proposed in 1987 as a way to
continue rehabilitation and modernization of minor schemes started under the VIRP. The NIRP was
built on the experiences gained through VIRP and similar recent projects. IDA support for the NIRP
was justified as it was expected that the NIRP would: (a) improve the capacity and efficiency of public
irrigation services at the center and in provinces, and; (b) promote increased participation of farner
organizations (FOs) in irrigation system management.
5.        The  NIRP  was  prepared  in  December  1989/January  1990, appraised  in
November/December 1990 and presented to IDA's board on June 6, 1991. Subsequently, an IDA
Credit consisting of SDR 21.9 million (US$ 29.6 million) was signed on July 24,1991 and the Credit
became effective on October 21, 1991. The Credit, to be disbursed over a period of seven years,
covered about 59% of the total project cost estimated at US$ 49.8 million. The financing plan included
a Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) contribution of US$ 16.2 million and a grant equivalent to US$
4.0 million from the European Union (EU).



Prc,ject Objectives
6.        The main objective of the NIRP was to stabilize and increase agricultural production and
incomes, and raise the standard of living through rehabilitation and impiroved O&M of existing
irrigation schemes. Subsidiary objectives included: (a) upgrading the skills of farmers and staff of the
implementing agencies, and (b) creating viable FOs for managing the rehabilitated schemes. The
schemes for rehabilitation were selected after reaching prior agreement with the respective FOs that
they would: (i) in respect of minor schemes (command area less than 80 ha), bear the full cost of
O&M of schemes after rehabilitation and improvements are completed, and (ii) in respect of
medium/major schemes, bear the full cost of O&M of Distributory and Field (D&F) canals after the
rehabilitation is completed and bear the cost of O&M of headworks and main canals starting two years
after rehabilitation is completed.
7.        The project's objectives were considered important and relevant in pursing the Irrigation
Management Policy of the GOSL which was designed to increase the participation and responsibilities
of the farmers in irrigation system management and reduce the role of the public sector. The present
policy is to handover all irrigation schemes to FOs for self-management by the year 2000. Minor
schemes are to be managed fully by the farmers and major/medium schemes are to be managed jointly
by the farmers and irrigation agencies. The role of the public sector woulct gradually be limited to
providing technical and institutional advice to FOs, and O&M of major facilities such as headworks
and main canals. It is in this overall context that the NIRP was considered as an important
intervention.
Project Components
8.        The project included the following components: (a) rehabilitation and improvement of
about 1,000 minor schemes and 60 major/medium schemes covering about 25,000 ha and 12,500 ha
respectively; (b) establishment of FOs and introduction of improved O&M practices in all
rehabilitated schemes; (c) training of farmers and staff of the implementing agencies;
(d) environmental protection studies and works; (e) establishment of three new support units in ID and
execution of socio-economic and hydrological studies, and; (f) consultancy services for project
planning, implementation, and impact assessments.
9.         The target of major/medium schemes were reduced from 60 to 35 schemes after IDA
Review in July 1994 although increasing the area to some 13,600 ha. After August 1997, one
additional medium scheme was dropped from the schedule (Mahawewa, 100 ha) and the rehabilitation
of another scheme (Rampathwila, 118 ha) was limited to headworks. The revised work plan included
the rehabilitation of 1,036 minor schemes covering about 29,000 ha, including 80 schemes (3,000 ha)
in the Northeast province, and 34 medium/major schemes covering 13,380 ha.
Project Implementation and Coordination
10.       The project was implemented by three agencies under the guidance and supervision of a
Colombo-based Central Management Cell (CMC) headed by a Project DirectEor (PD) and assisted by a
team of consultants and eight field based Regional Support Teams (RSTs). The ID was responsible for
the rehabilitation and FO institutional strengthening of all major/medium schemes, except for FO
institutional strengthening of two schemes which was the responsibility of thne Irrigation Management
Division (IMD) of the MIP. In minor schemes, the ID, PIAs and DAS sharecl the responsibility for the
rehabilitation, while the DAS was responsible for the FO institutional strengthening. In addition, FOs
were expected to implement a designated part of the rehabilitation works in their respective schemes
as a voluntary contribution, a portion equivalent to 10% of the civil works cost.
11.       The project activities were coordinated by a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) at
national level and by Provincial Project Coordination Committees (PPCCs) at provincial levels. The
PCC was chaired by the S/MIP and represented by the heads of relevant line departments and Chief
29



Secretaries of the provinces. The PD was the secretary to the PPC. The PPCCs were chaired by the
respective Provincial Chief Secretaries and represented by the provincial level line agency heads.
Partial Extension of Closing Date
12.       On March 19, 1998, the GOSL requested IDA, a six-month partial extension of the Credit
Closing Date from June 30 to December 31, 1998, to enable completion of the ongoing rehabilitation
works in the Northeast. Government also requested IDA to finance the feasibility studies of a selected
sample of irrigation schemes in the Northeast under the Credit. Considering that it was only in August
1997 that substantial work could be initiated in the NE and that subsequent disruptions due to civil
unrest caused a delay in sustaining the implementation pace of those works, IDA agreed to accede to
the Government request under 'force-majeure' conditions. On April 9,1998, the IDA communicated to
the Government, its decision for a six months extension of the Credit Closing Date to December 31,
1998 in respect of the works and studies in the NE. The Credit Closing Date for rest of the project
remains as June, 30,1998.
II. OVERALL PROJECT STAiTUS
Overall Project Implementation
13.       The overall project implementation, expected to start in January 1992, has been behind
schedule due to a number of reasons: (a) the appointment of project consultants scheduled on
December 31, 1991, but accomplished only in May 1993, delayed the mobilization of project activities
by one and a half years; (b) the PIAs, which were in infancy at the time of scheduled commencement
of project activities, could not mobilize their resources fully as expected to enable a quick take-off; (c)
the first batch of project vehicles and equipment under IDA financing was delivered only in late 1993,
and as a result the mobility of project staff were affected; (d) the poor cashflow management after
1996 caused shortfalls in the availability of project funds to meet with project expenditures at crucial
civil work construction periods; (e) the general strike of the Technical Officers of the ID for three
months during July-September 1997 affected the civil works progress of all major/medium schemes
and about 300 minor schemes; and (f) delayed but heavy Northeast monsoon rains in four consecutive
years (1994 -1997) obliged the farmers to opt for an early Yala cultivation in the following year
reversing their consent to forgo one cultivation to permit rehabilitation works. Except (e) and (f)
above, all the other factors reflect the failure of the Borrower to ensure timely 'readiness' conditions
required to mobilize the project activities as scheduled.
Central Management Cell and Project Management
14.       The CMC was able to carryout majority of administrative and financial management
responsibilities assigned to it in the SAR. It successfully carried out feasibility studies, preparation of
technical guidelines and manuals, monitoring and record keeping of physical work progress,
procurements and training. It maintained satisfactory accounts, reviewed statements of expenditure,
and prepared and furnished withdrawal applications to IDA.
15.       However, initially the CMC failed to ensure project readiness conditions timely. This
lapse seems to be largely attributable to the fact that CMC faced limitations to function as a fully
independent and autonomous unit during the initial project period. By design, the CMC was expected
to be a sub-unit within the ID. The CMC was set-up accordingly, an ID engineer was appointed as the
PD, but it took a considerable time before it was fully staffed by the ID and other line agencies. The
CMC, being under the bureaucratic control of the ID top management, could not exercise adequate
financial and administrative authority to ensure timely project readiness conditions, manage project
activities, and allocate project resources and facilities efficiently and effectively. Also, the CMC failed
to monitor and evaluate effectively the FO institutional development program, which was a key
project activity. Considering the project's scale, magnitude and policy importance, it would have been
30



more effective if the CMC functioned as an independent unit directly under the guidance of MIP
linked with Provincial Management Cells each headed by a Co-Project Director at provincial level.
Project Coordination
16.       At initial stages of the project, the PCC, established as the apex body to deal with all
aspects of project management and implementation met once in three months. However, after the
project gathered momentum, the PCC met only once in six months or so. The PCC effectively carried
out the reviewing and approving of work plans, monitoring physical progress and resolving
implementation problems. However, the mission is of the view that PCC should have provided more
policy guidance to the CMC with respect to the FO institutional development program and
sustainability issues of the project.
17.       The coordination of the project activities at provincial level by the PPCCs is not
satisfactory. The PPCCs proceedings were focused on physical civil works progress monitoring at the
expense of monitoring the institutional development activities and coordinating the other project
activities among the three lAs. With respect of the implementation of FO institutional development
program of minor schemes, lack of provincial level coordination between the DAS and the other two
lAs affected the quality and outcome of the program to a considerable degree. This situation would
have been eased off if the project activities were implemented under the overall supervision of co-
Project Directors fielded at provincial level.
Rehabilitation and Improvement Works
18.       The pace of implementation of rehabilitation work has improved substantially after
September 1997. Of the revised target of 1,036 minor schemes, including the 80 schemes undertaken
after August 1997, only 76 were completed by June 1995. This figure increased to about 400 by June
1997, to 715 by May 1998 is currently estimated at 817 indicating an overall implementation rate of
about 80%. The implementation progress of the 80 schemes in the NE is currently varying from 20%
to 40%. It is however estimated that the remaining 219 schemes would be completed by the end of the
year. With respect to major/medium schemes, out of the total 35, only six were fully completed by
May 1998 and it is currently estimated at eleven. Considering that one scheme was deleted, the
remaining 23 have so far recorded an implementation rate ranging from 60% to 90%. This is not
satisfactory. This means that unless rehabilitation would be completed, there is a risk that in a
considerable number of schemes improved water management would not mnaterialize leaving farmers
in a worse situation than they had been in before the rehabilitation program. However, the CMC
forecasts that all scheduled rehabilitation works of major/medium schemes would be completed by
March 31, 1999.
Construction Supervision and Quality
19.       Compared to previous projects, the project design included a number of positive actions
to improve the quality of civil works. Among many actions, the fielding of RSTs and providing
training to farmers on basic construction aspects are the main ones. Since July 1996, the CMC with the
assistance from project consultants, was able to enforce a comprehensive civil works quality assurance
(QA) procedure and system. While this QA system was set in place mid way after the project activities
have begun, the necessary QA checks and balances could not be enforced at optimum levels due to a
number of reasons: (a) the transport facilities made available to QA staff were not adequate; (b)
shortage of qualified and trained Work Supervisors (WSs) until mid 1997; (c) Majority of WSs
recruited and posted to field sites lacked prior experience in civil works supervision-- although they
were provided with quick short-term training by the CMC, their contribut:ion to quality assurance did
not prove to be entirely successful; (d) although, the project consultants through their RSTs, were
expected to check and certify reimbursement claims against all civil works contracts and monitor
disbursements, the project management failed to establish and enforce this important QA requirement
--However, IDA continued to disburse Credit funds in spite of the non-establishment of this QA
31



requirement: and (e) scheduled civil works are declared 'completed' without a final certification being
obtained from the project consultants both in respect of the construction quality and structural safety
of the 'completed' works, since this was not a pre-requisite indicated in the SAR. However, from
quality assurance point of view, it would have been best for the works executed, if the steps (d) and (e)
above were implemented by the Project on its own initiative. This is an important lesson learned from
the project.
20.       The mission is of the opinion that under the circumstances mentioned above, the CMC
had difficulties in enforcing the QA system at optimum levels. While the quality and precision of
some randomly selected civil works of four schemes inspected in the field with the project staff and
consultants appeared good, it was not the case with two schemes. Given the small number of schemes
inspected, it was difficult for the mission to make generalized conclusions on the quality aspects of the
project. The mission was concerned whether the implementation pace was accelerated at the expense
of quality. According to the CMC that it is not the case. It is an accomplishment by the Project if the
good progress was achieved, amidst the shortcomings mentioned in paragraph 19 above, without
sacrificing the quality.
Procurements of Civil Works
21.       The mission, was informed by the project consultants that the standard specifications
developed by the Institute of Construction Training and Development (ICTAD) for civil works are not
the best suitable for the nature of civil works typical to rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes.
Because the project adopted those specifications without modifying those pragmatically, there was
little flexibility in many instances to enforce the QA system. Also, the mission considers that both the
implementation progress and quality of civil works could have been improved if the CMC managed
civil works contract packaging, administration and monitoring more systematically. While the mission
could not ascertain these aspects in detail, it suggests that these lessons be addressed constructively by
the MIP for the benefit of ongoing and future works. These are tvo important lessons learned from the
project.
Formation of Farmer Organizations
22.       FOs have been established in all minor schemes. In respect of major/medium schemes
too, 207 D&F level FOs have been formed and Project Management Committees (PACs) have been
set up except in one scheme (Ranpathwila). All these FOs have been registered under Clause 56 A of
the Agrarian Services Act. Of those, seven FOs in minor schemes and seven in major/medium
schemes have been registered under Clause 56 B of the Act, meaning that they have attained legal
recognition implying they have a better chance for long term sustainability. Another 157 FOs are
being considered for the registration under Clause 56 B.
23.       The CMC reports that of the 956 minor schemes outside the NE, FOs of 811 (85%) minor
schemes have contributed fully, the 10% voluntary contribution. In respect of the major/medium
schemes it is reported that the 10% civil cost recovery has not been very successful. In some
major/medium schemes, the value of the 10% civil cost is beyond the capacity of FOs to bear.
However, the total monetary value of this contribution secured from FOs by the project was not
known to the mission. The mission noted that the manner in which this contribution was to be
recovered neither had been clearly described in the project Staff Appraisal Report, nor specified by the
CMC. Eventually, lAs used uneven approaches in securing and certifying the 10% share, some of
which were not acceptable.
Handing Over and Improved O&M
24.       As of May 31,1998, 483 completed minor schemes (67%) have been formally handed
over to respective FOs. With respect of major/medium schemes only 20 D&F systems in four
completed schemes have been taken over by FOs yet. The mission noted that although a large number
32



of minor schemes were reported to have been handed over, the preparation of O&M manuals for many
of those schemes were still due. According to mission's observations and two NIRP research studies
concluded by IIMI and AR&TI, it appears that handing-over in many schemes has been supply-driven,
and is symbolized with a written agreement of handing-over and taking-over signed between the lAs
and FOs respectively, and FOs have accepted handing over through sheer necessity than conviction.
However, there is evidence that FOs could and would participate effectively in system operation in
handed over systems -- but it seems unlikely that they could and would bear the full cost of
maintenance in the foreseeable future. To this end, the initiative of the DA'; to set up O&M funds in
275 handed over schemes is commendable.
Technical Assistance
25.       Project consultants have performed their responsibilities satisfactorily except for the
institutional development support at the RST level. The TA is coming to ea end with the scheduled
Credit Closure on June 30,1998. However, in respect of the ongoing schemes in the Northeast, for
which the Credit Closing Date is December 31, 1998, there is an acute need to provide technical
assistance to the implementing agencies in the NE to enable them to complete the work program in
time with due diligence and in accordance with the required technical standards. The mission strongly
urges the MIP to convince the EU to continue with the consultancy support to those schemes through
the two RSTs based in Anuradhapura and Ampara until December 31, 1998. The mission also urges
that, if the proposed arrangement does not materialize, the CMC, using IDA funds, employs two ex-
RST engineers for six months from July-December 1998 for the construction supervision of those
works.
Environmental Protection
26.       The project included provisions for: (a) minimizing the environmental damage to the
ecosystem during construction; (b) alleviating existing environmental problems, (c) studying
environmental problems at the watershed level, and; (d) environmental awareness training for
irrigation engineers, FO representatives and Institutional Organizers (1Os). The environmental
problems of all major/medium schemes were identified and environmental impact assessments were
conducted as a part of feasibility report preparation. Also, the environmental conditions of a sample of
nine major/medium and 30 minor schemes were studied in qualitative terms under the Benchmark and
Evaluation study of the project (paragraph 33). The rehabilitation may have automatically eased off a
few environmental problems such as waterlogging and water stagnation in canals. However, except for
tank siltation field research study conducted by the DAS in three schermes under the project, the
implementation and monitoring of this component have been neglected and remained unsatisfactory.
Training of Project Staff and Farmers
27.       Overall, the achievement of this component is considered satisfactory. The overseas
training included three Masters (MSc) Degree courses and short term training/study tours for 243 staff
persons. This category of training aimed at enhancement of skills of senior and middle level technical
staff. While the overseas long-term training (MSc's) schedule was completed as foreseen, the latter
could only achieve an implementation rate of 70% (173 staff) either because suitable courses could not
be identified (Women's role in Farming Development) or because of lack of funds (Irrigation
Management, Institutional and Manpower Development). However, it was largely the ID staff who
have benefited from the overseas training program. The mission feels that overseas training
opportunities would have been allocated fairly to the PIAs and DAS as well.
28.       In-country training was successfully conducted and included ten courses for project staff,
four courses for institutional Organizers (1Os) and six courses for Farner Representatives (FRs).
Training of Project staff was successfully carried out recording an implementation rate of 84%.
Achievement for IOs and FRs Training Program not satisfactory. This is mainly because of the
delayed commencement of rehabilitation itself and the shortage of trainers in the ID field level. No
33



formal evaluation of quality and impact of training is available. Four training courses were included
for farmers in the NIRP. Since 1996, three out of these four are incorporated in the Aftercare Program
implemented under EU funding. Assistance was adequately provided under the project for the
expansion and upgrading of the four in-service training institutes in Galgamuwa, Pothuhena, Kandy,
and Bandarawela.
Irrigation Research Management Unit
29.       It was felt necessary at appraisal to establish an Irrigation Research Management Unit
(IRMU) to coordinate research on issues related to poor O&M, questionable hydrological planning
parameters, and mono cropping of rice. The IRMU was set up in 1992 jointly by the ID and IIMI. It
was headed by an internationally recruited agricultural engineer and supported by a full-time team of
multi-disciplinary researchers from IIMI. It continued under IIMI's support until July 1996. However,
from the inception it did not receive much support from the ID, including the appointment of
counterpart staff, especially in the non-engineering disciplines. IRMU conducted a number of research
studies and seminars. However after IIMI completed its assignment in 1996, the IRMU remained
without necessary commitment, financial support, and staffing from ID to be able to continue research
activities. At the end, the research issues identified at appraisal remain to be addressed.
Dam Safety Unit
30.       A Dam Safety Unit was supposed to be established to assist the ID in carrying out regular
inspections, surveillance monitoring and preventive maintenance of storage dams. The project
included provisions for training, vehicles, equipment, expert advise, and funds to cover operating cost
of the unit during the project period. With initial support from the project consultants this unit was
established in April 1994. The ID was not able to activate the unit as expected, and consequently, EU
support was limited to short-term training in 1995. However, dam safety monitoring is now carried out
as a routine activity by the ID, under the supervision of the O&M Unit.
Quality Control Unit
31.       Provisions were made to enhance the capacity of the Quality Control Unit of the ID,
including the establishment of nine field laboratories, vehicles, equipment and operating cost during
the project period. Four new field laboratory buildings were constructed, four existing ones were
renovated, and the unit was provided with the operational support, including vehicle hire. Although, it
received the equipment as late as in May 1998, it was able to put in place a comprehensive quality
control system, and with the assistance with the RSTs, to provide support to lAs as envisaged.
However, the adaptation of the system of checklists has not reached optimum levels.
Studies
32.       The project included provisions to continue the hydrological and water management
study and socio-economic study implemented under the VIRP. It also included a Benchmark and
evaluation study in 30 minor and nine major/medium schemes. In view of the limited outcome of the
VIRP studies, the first two studies were not implemented under the project. The Benchmark and
Evaluation study, which commenced in October 1995 with scheduled completion date in December
1998, is ongoing. The Final Report on the benchmark status was submitted to CMC by study
consultants in August 1996. In view of its usefulness to the CMC to prepare its own project ICR, the
mission urges the CMC to request the study consultants to expedite the study and submit the final
report as early as possible. In addition, useful project related technical guidelines, manuals and studies
have been concluded by project consultants as well as by IRMU. The mission suggests that those
publications are disseminated among the lAs.
34



Agricultural Demonstration Plots
33.       The project allocated a small provision (SLRs 4 million) to set up agricultural
demonstration plots in about 10% of the rehabilitated schemes to promote crop diversification.
Although, the DAS set up a few agricultural demonstration plots, the progress of this component
remained unsatisfactory throughout the project period.
Procurements of Vehicles and Equipment
34.       The overall progress of procurements of vehicles and equipment to support project
operations and lAs was not satisfactory. This is mainly because of the failure to procure vehicles and
equipment due under EU funding, although procurements under IDA funding were performed
satisfactorily despite initial delays. Of the target of 75 vehicles, 87 motorcycles, 300 bicycles and 55
vehicles, the project has procured 55 vehicles, 85 motor cycles and 325 bicycles under IDA financing.
Estimated Project Cost, Financing and Disbursements
35.       Total project cost is estimated to reach some US$ 39.3 million by Credit Closure, which
is about 79% of the original appraisal estimate. Final overall disbursement (US$ 39.3million) is
estimated to include IDA's US$ 22.1 million (75% of the original Credit amount), EU's grant of US$
4.5 million and GOSL's contribution, including FOs' contribution, of US$ 12.7 million. Of the IDA
Credit (US$ 29.6 million), US$ 5.0 million was cancelled in 1997 on GOSL's request. The total
disbursement as of June 30,1998, is US$ 19.7 million (66% of original Credit amount). There is a
backlog of uncleared project expenditure since December 1997 to date.
III. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
36.       Although the Project seems to have somewhat achieved its objective of increasing
agricultural production and farmer incomes, in-depth analysis of the economic and financial viability
will be carried out later by the mission as soon as complete data are made available by the CMC.
However, the O&M of the rehabilitated irrigation schemes remains highly dependent from external
financial support. While a considerable number of completed minor schemes and a small number of
D&F canal systems of major/medium schemes are reported to have been handed over to FOs, the
outlook for sustainability of the Project is promising for only a few of the schemes where FOs have
been well established and O&M plans implemented. For the vast majority of the schemes, the
sustainability will depend on further efforts, in forming strong FOs to adequately organize O&M
operations. While Sri Lankan village irrigation schemes by tradition have some form of beneficiary
association, evidently only a few of these groups in the project area have had the strength to keep the
schemes in good operating conditions after completion of rehabilitation. It seems that this endeavor
has weakened by a decline in farmers' sense of responsibility for their schemes in cases where they
were not fully participating in the planning, design and implementation of the rehabilitation works and
where rehabilitation has not been completed to the full satisfaction of FOs. A possible solution to
improve this situation is to continue to support the IOs effort in setting up O&M funds, organizing
deferred repair and maintenance works and further strengthening of water rnanagement. Without such
follow-up programs, the sustainability of the project achievements appears to be at risk in the majority
of the rehabilitated schemes. To this end, the mission is pleased that CMC has requested EC to
continue to support for the 'Aftercare' program.
37.       Related to the issue of sustainability are farmers' willingness, capacity and commitment
to undertake the O&M responsibilities. O&M of minor schemes are usually not very complex and
therefore with further institutional and technical support, FOs would be able to operate and maintain
those schemes without much difficulty. But with respect of medium/major schemes, where O&M is
relatively heavier, it is doubtful whether farmers would be willing and capable of undertaking the full
responsibilities even of the D&F canal systems. At most, FOs appear to be willing to and capable of
operating the D&F systems and participating in labor-intensive maintenance tasks under the technical
35



guidance of lAs, but not in providing inputs in cash or in kind to finance full maintenance costs even
of D&F systems. The project's expectation that FOs would take over the full O&M responsibility of
headworks and main canals starting two years after the rehabilitation works are completed appear to
be highly unrealistic and would not be achievable in the foreseeable future. Among many reasons for
this situation, the low productivity and profitability of present irrigated farming, complex land tenure
problems, and lack of a strong commitment for the system turnover and cost recovery by all concerned
parties, seem to be the main ones.
IV. LESSONS LEARNED
38.        The NIRP is the first country-wide project aimed to ensure the sustainability of irrigation
schemes through rehabilitation and improved O&M and creation of FOs to managing the rehabilitated
schemes. While, the project is not likely to achieve its development objectives fully, the planning,
design, implementation and outcome of the project provide a useful learning experience both for the
Borrower and Bank.
(i)  Irrigation rehabilitation alone is a necessary but not a sufficient condition to
increasing agricultural production, incomes and standard of living of farmers. In
the context of Sri Lanka's irrigated agricultural subsector, it is only a very marginal
intervention. Providing innovative agricultural technologies and other services
including rural credit and market facilities would be crucial to generate more
benefits from rehabilitation.
(ii)  Forming FOs and carrying out irrigation rehabilitation at the same time do not
work well. Before starting rehabilitation works, it is essential to maintain for at
least a year, an effective institutional support aiming at establishing well-motivated
FOs and self-sustaining agricultural input services.
(iii) Land tenure problem is a factor that inhibits the development of viable FOs. Unit
cost of rehabilitation is higher for schemes in areas of difficult land terrain. Also,
value of ten percent of the civil cost of major/medium schemes seems to be beyond
FO's capacity to bear. These factors should be considered in scheme selection for
rehabilitation.
(iv)  Improvements to one scheme affects hydrology and water availability at other
downstream schemes in tank cascade systems. This factor needs to be adequately
analyzed in scheme selection, planning and design for future irrigation
rehabilitation projects.
(v)  It is essential to develop and enforce pragmatic civil work specifications, and
contract packaging, administration and quality assurance systems suitable for
rehabilitation to ensure sustainability of the rehabilitated schemes.
V. NEXT STEPS
Project Closure Decisions and Actions
39.        A sum of SLRs 300 million (US$ 4.6 million) has been allocated by the Government in
the current financial year to enable completion of ongoing rehabilitation of schemes whose completion
dates are beyond partial Credit Closure on June 30, 1998. It is expected that the CMC will clear the
backlog of all unclaimed project expenditure, and send all withdrawal applications for project
expenditure for components not extended to reach IDA before October 31, 1998.
36



40.       The CMC will expedite the implementation of ongoing works in the NE and ensure
completion of those schemes before December 31, 1998, as scheduled.
Proposed Northeast Rehabilitation Project
41.       It is also expected that CMC will expedite the ongoing feasibility studies, including
socio-economic studies, of the sample schemes in the NE and ensure completion by July 31,1998, as
scheduled. To enable the speedy preparation of the project proposals for consideration of IDA funding,
the mission recommends that the MIP, in consultation with the relevant Government and Provincial
authorities, take the following actions. (a) establishment of a separate Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), with necessary staffing including a Project Director within the project area and (b) appointment
of a Colombo-based Coordinator to provide guidance to the PIU and coorclinate preparation activities
with the MIP, Bank and the PIU.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
42.       The CMC is currently assembling data on the project perfomiance essential to carry out
the ex-post economic and financial analysis of NIRP. As agreed with the PI), these data will be sent by
the CMC to Mr. Raffaele Suppa at FAO Headquarters in Rome with copy to Mr. Nihal Fernando, Task
Leader at World Bank Resident Mission in Colombo, not later than 10 July 1998. The Government is
required to prepare its own project evaluation report. As the works in the NE is less than ten percent of
the total project, the CMC will prepare its evaluation report on the basis of the data and records
available with the CMC at present. The Government will submit this report to ID no later than
November 30, 1998. The ID plans to complete the final draft of the ICR before December 31, 1998.
The Government's report will be attached to the final ICR.
37



Appendix B
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2260-CE)
Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
An ex-post financial analysis has been carried out to assess the achievement of the stated
objectives of the project. In line with the approach used at appraisal, farmn budgets were prepared for the
same sample schemes used for the baseline, namely Kaltota, Mahagal Wewa (major/medium schemes)
and Dorakada Liyadde, Kobeigane, Mahakiri Ibbewa and Nittewa (minor schemes). The other
corresponding basic data required for the analysis were provided by the DAS, based on a study carried
out during the course of the project, in respect of 20 minor schemes. This study covered ten completed
minor irrigation tank schemes, and ten minor irrigation anicut schemes, representing various districts,
and whose implementation was commenced in 1992/1993. These 20 schemes included 3 sample
schemes (Mahakiri Ibbewa, Kobeigane tank schemes and Korakada Liyadde anicut scheme) analyzed at
appraisal. The selection of schemes is considered fairly representative (Tables 1 and 2).
The average farm size of the 20 selected schemes range from 0.2 to 1.1 ha (Table 8). The
cropping intensity for tank schemes without and with project is estimated at 111% and 119%
respectively. Similarly related cropping intensity for the without and with project situations for anicut
schemes is estimated at 165% and 168% respectively (Tables 1 and 2). Gross incomes and cost of
production were estimated for a single crop, i.e. paddy, using actual farrn gate 1999 prices. Only rice is
considered because it is by far the most significant and representative crop for all project schemes,
reliable information on production costs and farm gate prices for rice are readily available, and there is
no significant evidence that cropped area under other field crops increased significantly under the
project. However, these production costs and underlying assumptions are to be considered as average
values and are equally applicable to both major/medium and minor schemes. Production costs include
the O&M cost of schemes to be bone by farmers, at an average estimated rate of Rs. 500/ha for the
without project situation and Rs. 900/ha for the with project situation (Tables 3 and 4).
In estimating future project benefits, and in line with the analysis given at appraisal, it has
been assumed that, in the absence of the project, the conveyance system and control of water deliveries
within the irrigation schemes would have further deteriorated with the likely result of a reduction of farm
output by about 20%. On the basis of this assumption and as indicated above, increases of net farm
income over the without project situation would range from 28% (DorakadaLiyadde - Anicut) to 50%
(Nittewa - Tank). Although considered satisfactory at farm income level, these results are well below
appraisal expectations. The results of the farm income analysis is presented in detail in Table 9 and are
summarized below:
38



Net Farm Income            Incremental
Farn                                  Nel; Farm Income
Size   Present             With      Over      Over    Increase
Project   Project   Present    Without
_________________________________________________________________ Project.
(ha)               . . .(Rs.) ............................ .  (%)
A. Medium/Major Schemes
- Kaltota (Anicut)      0.40    13,881   11,105    15,144    1,263      4,039       36
-MahagalWewa(Tank)      1.10   38,199   30,559    41,644    3,445       11,085      36
B. Minor Schemes
- Dorakada Liyadde      0.20    4,540    3,632      4,637       97       1,005      28
(Anicut)
- Kobeigane (Tank)      0.20     5,660    4,528     6,632      972      2,104       47
- Mahakirilbbewa(Tank)   0.35    9,757    7,806    11,581    1,824      3,775       48
-Nittewa(Tank)          0.60    16,734   13,387    20,066    3,332      6,679       50
Economic Re-evaluation
The economic analysis at appraisal was carried out for the project as a whole and for
six sample schemes (Kaltota, Mahagal Wewa, Dorakada Liyadde, Kobeigane, Mahakiri Ibbewa and
Nittewa). Because of lack of detailed data regarding the actual project performance relative to the six
schemes analysed at appraisal, the economic re-evaluation at project completion could only be carried
for the project as a whole. The overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) fer the project is estimated at
14.1% (Table 14) which, although considered satisfactory, is well below tie ERR of 31% assessed at
appraisal. Major factors that have negatively affected the economic impact of the project include less
than expected increases in both the cropping intensity and paddy yields (Tables 1, 2 and 5). The main
assumptions underlying the analysis and the methodology followed are described below:
(a)   Agricultural production: In the absence of complete data regarding actual land use in
different project areas, estimates for the entire project are based on production
parameters, cropping intensity and cost data from the sixrepresentative sample
schemes. The value of the agricultural production has been estimated taking into
account only one crop, i.e. rice paddy, for both Maha and Yala seasons. Details of
production-related variables are given in Tables 1 to 9. As indicated in Tables 6 and
7, total project benefits, estimated on the basis of incrermental rice paddy production,
have been derived from a total cultivated area of about 47,500 ha adding together
28,400 ha in the minor irrigation schemes and 19,100 ha in the medium/major
irrigation schemes, and corresponding to 1,036 minor schemes and 33 medium/major
schemes respectively.
(b)  Input - output prices: Considering Sri Lanka remains a net importer of rice, the
economic price of paddy is based on projected 2010 import parity price derived from
the January 1999 World Bank Commodity Price Projection and expressed in 1999
constant prices as shown in Appendix B, Table 12, where economic prices of
fertilizer are also given. While labour costs were adjusted by a conversion factor of
0.9, other operating costs were converted into economic value by applying a
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.85 (Tables 2 and 3).
(c)   Project implementation The first batch of completed schemes were delivered as late
as in 1995. For the analysis, all minor irrigation schemes (1,048) and   33
major/medium schemes (out of a SAR figure of 60 subsequently reduced to 35 at
Mid-Term  Review) were considered fully rehabilitated under the project. The
39



analysis has been based on a project investment life span of 25 years, in line with
SAR approach.
(d)  Investment costs: The analysis was based on actual project costs as provided by the
CMC and given in details in Table 10. The local costs were adjusted by applying a
SCF of 0.85.
(e)  Operation and maintenance costs: O&M costs as estimated in Tables 3 and 4, are
included in the crop budget analysis and were adjusted by a SCF of 0.85.
The ERR was calculated on the assumption of adequate maintenance of the completed
works. However, this is considered unlikely. A sensitivity analysis was carried out to assess the ERR
assuming 20% reduction in agricultural production phased over time due to poor maintenance. For that
scenario the ERR is 10%, which is marginal.
40



Table 1. Cropping Intensities in Selected Minor Schemes (Tanks)1/
No.            Name of Tank              Const.       District       Farm.       Irrigable         Cropping Intensity (%)         Total Cultivated Area (Acs)
Year                     Families      Area (Acs)    W/O Project      With Project    W/O Project  | With Project
01   Nelugollekada Wewa                  1992    Anuradhapura        40                  140              83               90           116.2            126.0
02  Mahakiri IbbewaWewa                  1992    Anuradhapura         50                  95             100              120            95.0            114.0
03  PethiyannakadaWewa                   1992    Anuradhapura         65                 210             110              115           231.0            241.5
04  Kobeigane Wewa                       1992    Kurunegala          68                   87             145              150           126.2            130.5
05  Karawadeniya Wewa                    1992    Kurunegala          60                   30             114              125            34.2             37.5
06  Thittawela Wewa                      1993    Kurunegala           80                  95              88              100            83.6             95.0
07  DunupothaWewa                        1993    Kurunegala          44                   80             200              200           160.0            160.0
08  Aulegama Wewa                        1993    Kurunegala           60                  40              80               90            32.0             36.0
09  MatihakkaWewa                        1993    Hambantota           10                  35             100              100            35.0             35.0
.r.-     10  Omara Gonawetuna Ara Wewa             1993    Hambantota          40                  48              85              100             40.8            48.0
Total                                                                               860                                            954.0          1,023.5
Weighted Cropping Intensity (VVithout Project) =                110.9% (954.0/860)
Weighted Cropping Intensity (With Project)    =                 119.0% (1,023.5/860)
Incremental Cropping Intensity         =                          8.1%
1/ The irrigable area and cultivated areas are shown in acres to retain the originality of data provided by DAS and CMC.



Table 2. Cropping Intensities in Selected Minor Schemes (Anicuts)1/
No. |          Name of Tank             Const.     District      Farm.        Irrigable       Cropping Intensity (%)        Total Cultivated Area (Acs)
Year                   Families     Area (Acs)    W/O Project    With Project    W/O Project    With Project
01   Dorakada Liyadde Anicut            1992   Kalutara           25                  40            187             194             74.8           77.6
02  Mahakumbura Anicut                  1993    Badulla           30                  70            182             192            127.4          134.4
03  Ekke Amuna                          1993   Kegalle            15                  16            200             200            32.0            32.0
04  Edanwala Amuna                      1993   Kegalle            84                  27            200             200            54.0            54.0
05   Punmulla Anicut                    1993    Ratnapura         68                  52            196             196            101.9          101.9
06   Halangoda Amuna                    1994   Matale             65                 100            146             146            146.0          146.0
07  Ittawala Anicut                     1993    Matara           240                 120            130             135            156.0          162.0
08  Pallewela Anicut                    1993   Badulla            30                  27            200             200            54.0            54.0
09   Devale LiyaddaAnicut               1993   Ratnapura          46                  50            142             150             71.0           75.0
10  Mitiwalatenna Amuna                 1993   Matale             36                 27             200             200            54.0            54.0
Total                                                                           529                                           871.1          890.9
Weighted Cropping Intensity (Without Project) =             164.7% (871.1/529)
Weighted Cropping Intensity (With Project)    =             168.4% (890.91529)
Incremental Cropping Intensity          =                     3.7%
1/ The irrigable area and cultivated areas are shown in acres to retain the originality of data provided by DAS and CMC.



Table 3. Paddy: Crop Budget - Production Cost Without Project
in Both Financial and Economic Terms
Activity                   Unit      No. of Unit    Unit Coist    Total Costl/
I             I |  (Rs./unit)  (Rs./acre)
1. Land Preparation
- Tractor                               L.S                ...            ..          1,600
2. Seeding
- Seeds                                 kg                 44             18           792
3. Fertilizer
- Base Application (Vi)                 kg                 50             16           800
4. Chemicals
- 1st Weeding                           L.S                  .             .           250
- 1 st Pest Control                     L.S                 ..             ...         220
- Hire of Spraying Equipment            L.S                ...              .          300
S. Harvesting
- Hired Labor                              pd                  4            150           600
- Tractor for Threshing                    L.S                               ...          600
- Other                                 L.S                                            300
6. O&M Costs                              acre                 1            500           500
Total Production Costs                                                                  5,962
in Financial Terms (Rs./acre)
Total Production Costs (Rs./ha)                                                        14,726
in Financial Terms (Rs./ha)
Total Production Costs                                                                  12,869
in Economic Terms (Rs./ha) 21
1/ Production costs are given on per acre basis to retain the originality of data provided
by DAS and CMC (1999 prices).
2/ To convert financial values into economic values (as indicated in the text of Appendix B:
Economic Re-evaluation), a SCF of 0.85 has been applied to the financial costs of
mechanization, seeding, chemicals and O&M. A conversion factor of 0.9 has been
applied to hired labor. Conversion factors for fertilizers are given in Table 12.
43



Table 4. Paddy: Crop Budget - Production Cost With Project
in Both Financial and Economic Terms
Activity                 Unit      No. of Unit    Unit Cost   Total CostlI
(Rs./unit)  I (Rs.iacre)
1. Land Preparation
- Tractor                            L.S               ...           ...        1,600
2. Seeding
- Seeds                              kg                44            18          792
3. Fertilizer
- Base Application (Vi)              kg                50            16          800
- First Top Dressing (Urea)           kg               25             7          175
- Second Top Dressing (Urea)          kg               25             7          175
4. Chemicals
-1 st Weeding                        L.S               ...                       250
- 1st Pest Control                   L.S                                         220
- Hire of Spraying Equipment         L.S                                         300
5. Harvesting
- Hired Labor                         pd                5           150          750
- Tractor for Threshing                 L.S               ...           ...         600
- Other                              L.S               ...           ...         300
6. O&M Costs                           acre                1           900          900
Total Production Costs                                                            6,862
in Financial Terms (Rs./acre)
Total Production Costs                                                           16,949
in Financial Terms (Rs./ha)
Total Production Costs                                                           15,702
in Economic Terms (Rs./ha) 21
1/ Production costs are given on per acre basis to retain originality of data provided
by DAS and CMC (1999 prices).
2/ To convert financial values into economic values (as indicated in the text of Appendix B:
Economic Re-evaluation), a SCF of 0.85 has been applied to the financial costs of
mechanization, seeding, chemicals and O&M. A conversion factor of 0.9 has been
applied to hired labor. Conversion factors for fertilizers are given in Table 12.
44



Table 5. Minor and Medium/Major Irrigation Schemes:
Yields of Paddy Without and With Project
Without Project      With Projeci=
Name of Scheme/Type        Maha       Yala     Maha  I  Yala
-------------   (tonslacre)
A. Minor Schemes I/
1. Dorakada Liyadde-Anicut     1.2       1.1       1.3       1.2
2. Kobeigane     -Tank          1.8      1.7       2.0       1.9
3. Mahakiri Ibbewa  - Tank     1.8       1.7       2.0       1.9
4.Nitftewa       - Tank         1.4      1.3       1.6       1.5
B. MedlumlfMajor Schemes 2/
1. Kaltota                     1.5       1.4       1.6       1.5
2. Mahagal Wewa                 1.5      1.4       1.7       1.6
1/ Data provided by DAS based on a study covering ten Tank schemes and
ten Anicut schemes. For the without project situation, average yields
have been estimated on the basis of data over a period of ten years.
The possible negative effect of three bad crop years has been considered
in estimating yields for the with project situation.
2/ CMC's estimates.
45



Table 6. Minor Schemes: Total Project Area and Estimated Rice Paddy Production
Command    Irrigable    Cropping    Cultivated    Yields 3/   Production
Area       Area 1/   Intensity 2/    Area
(ha)        (ha)         (%)         (ha)       (tons/ha)    (tons)
I - Without Project
-Tanks                        17,500       14,875         111       16,511         3.99      65,880
-Anicuts                       7,500        6,375         165       10,519         2.84      29,873
Total                        25,000       21,250         127       27,030         3.54      95,753
11 - With Project
CYN    --Tanks                        17,500       14,875         119       17,701         4.49       79,479
-Anicuts                       7,500        6,375         168       10,710         3.09      33,094
Total                        25,000       21,250         134       28,411         3.96     112,573
1/ Estimated at 85% of the Command area.
2/ As given in detail in Tables 1 and 2.
3/ Average rice paddy yields Maha and Yala seasons; based on data given in Table 5.
Totals do not add up precisely because of rounding.



Table 7. Medium/Major Schemes: Total Project Area and Estimated Rice Paddy Production
Command   Irrigable   Cropping  Cultivated   Yields 4/  Production
Area I/    Area 2/  Intensity 3/   Area
(ha)       (ha)       (%)        (ha)      (tons/ha)    (tons)
I- Without Project           13,390     11,382        165      18,779       3.58      67,231
11 - Future With Project     13,390     11,382        168      19,121       3.95      75,528
1/ Corresponding to 33 schemes actually rehabilitated by the end of June 1999.
2/ Estimated at 85% of the Command
area.
3/ Average cropping intensity based on parameters as used for anicuts (Table 2).
4/ Average rice paddy yields Maha and Yala seasons; based on data given in Table
5.



Table 8. Rice Paddy Production for Selected Farm Models
Average Cropping       Cultivated Area     Rice Paddy Yields 1/  Production
Intensity 1/
Farm Size W/O Project With Project   WIO      With   W/O Project   With   W/O Project   With
Project I Project             I Project          n        Project
(ha)            (%)             -      (ha) ----------  ---------- (tons/ha) ---------- ---------- (tons) ----------
A. Medium/Major Schemes
- Kaltota               0.4        165        168        0.66       0.67       3.58       3.95       2.36       2.65
- Mahagal Wewa          1.1        165        168        1.82       1.85       3.58       3.95       6.50       7.30
B. Minor Schemes
-  Dorakada  Liyadde   0.2         165        168        0.33       0.34       2.84       3.09       0.94       1.04
(Anicut)
- Kobeigane (Tank)      0.2       111         119        0.22       0.24       3.99       4.49       0.89       1.07
Z,     - Mahakiri Ibbewa (Tank)   0.35     111        119        0.39       0.42       3.99       4.49       1.55       1.87
co     - Nittewa (Tank)         0.6       111         119        0.67       0.71       3.99       4.49       2.66       3.21
1/ As indicated in Tables 6 and 7 for minor and medium/major schemes
respectively.



Table 9. Summary of Farm Incomes
Rice Paddy I/ Farm Gross Value of Product. Farm Product. Costs 3/   Net Farm Income  Incremental
2/
Farm Gate   W/O Project | With Project    W/O      With       W/O       With       Net Farm
Price                                Project I Project    Project I Project      Income
(Rs.1kg) -  - .---------- (Rs.) -----
A.        Medium/Major
Schemes
- Kaltota                10.0        23,600        26,500      9,719     11,356     13,881     15,144           1,263
- Mahagal Wewa           10.0        65,000        73,000     26,801     31,356     38,199    41,644            3,445
4S
B. Minor Schemes
-  Dorakada  Liyadde     10.0         9,400        10,400      4,860      5,763     4,540      4,637               97
(Anicut)
- Kobeigane (Tank)       10.0         8,900        10,700      3,240     4,068      5,660      6,632              972
- Mahakiri Ibbewa (Tank)  10.0        15,500       18,700      5,743      7,119     9,757      11,581           1,824
- Nittewa (Tank)         10.0        26,600        32,100      9,866     12,034     16,734    20,066            3,332
1/ Increased by 10% to take into-account the value of by-products.
2i Based on farm production data given in Table 8.
3/ Based on crop budget per ha given in Tables 3 and 4 and taking into account the respective total cultivated area indicated in Table 8.



Table 10. Total Project Costs in Current Terms
1991   1992  1993  1994   1995  1996  1997   1998    Sub-           1998         1999      Grand
total                             Total
upto May         from June to    to End of Project
Dec.
Rehabilitation & Improvement
Surveys                 0.2   3.2   5.9   8.8   9.2   15.8         0        0    43.1             -           -     43.1
Civil                  54.3   12.6  34.6  68.9  145.2  319.5  296.8    97.2  1,029.1          120.0       253.9  1,478.5
E & A                    0    2.6   9.2   12.0  34.2  55.8  40.2    11.9   165.9               24.0           -    189.9
Sub-total              54.5   18.4  49.7   89.7  188.6  391.1  337.0   109.1  1,238.1         144.0       253.9  1,711.5
Farmer Organization       0    1.4   6.2   10.2   15.1   21.3  23.8        4.8    82.8          37.4           -    120.2
o-n    Training                  0    3.2   4.2   4.2  28.9  26.3  21.3           1.4    89.5          0.6           -      90.1
Environmental             0      0      0      0      0      0      0        0       0            0           0       0.0
Protection
Institutional Support &   0    6.8   3.3   7.5   8.6  10.5  33.5    41.5   111.7                58.8           -    170.5
Studies
Technical Assistance      0   19.4  24.0   33.7  32.3  41.8  93.6    88.0   332.8               34.6           -    367.4
Vehicle & Equipment       0    0.7   14.6   8.1   31.4  47.8        0        0   102.6          40.3           -    142.9
TOTAL COST              54.5  49.9  102.0  153.4  304.9  538.8  509.2   244.8  1,957.5         315.7       253.9  2,602.6
(Rs. Million)
TOTAL COST               1.3   1.1   2.1    3.1    5.7   9.8   8.5         3.7    35.3           4.6         4.8     44.7
(US$ million)
Source: Data provided by the
CMC.



Table II. Total Project Cost in Constant 1999 Terms for Economic Analysis
Consumer    Deflators   Investment in   Investment Costs
Price Index 1/            Current Terms 2/  in Constant 1998
Terms
(1990 = 100)               (Rs. Million)      (Rs. Million)
1991      112.2         2.05           54.5             111.7
1992      125.0         1.84          49.9               91.8
1993      139.6         1.65          102.0             168.3
1994      151.4         1.52          153.4             233.2
1995      163.1         1.41          304.9             429.9
1996      189.0         1.22          538.8             657.3
1997      207.1         1.11          509.2             565.2
1998      226.5         1.02          560.5             571.7
1999 3/    230.0         1.00          253.9             253.9
1/ IMF: International Financial Statistics - March 1999.
2/ See details in Table
10.
3/ Consumer price index for 1999 estimated by the mission.



Table 12. Derivation of Import Parity Prices for Rice and Fertilizer
Parity'                            Units   |     [I]        [I]          RI
Projected World Price (2010)                    Rice        Urea        DAP
In 1990 constant dollars2         US$/MT          267.0       118.3       151.4
Adj. Factor to 1999 dollars3                      1.054       1.054        1.054
In constant 1999 dollars          US$/MT          281.4       124.7        159.6
Quality Adjustment                   %              80          100         100
World Market Equivalent           US$/MT          225.1       124.7        159.6
International shipping            US$/MT          30.04        50.0        50.0
CIF Value/Colombo                 US$/MT          255.1       174.7       209.6
Exchange Rate5                    Rs./US$          68.0        68.0        68.0
CIF Value/Colombo                 Rs./MT         17,347      11,880      14,253
Port charges6                     Rs./MT           540          540         540
Internal transport6               Rs./MT           540          540         540
Internal handling6                Rs./MT           215          215         215
Processed Value                   Rs./MT         18,642      13,175      15,548
Processing ratio                     %              65            -           -
Processing costs6                 Rs./MT          (412)           -           -
Value of by-products6             Rs./MT           463            -            -
Wholesale Value                   Rs./MT         12,168      13,175       15,548
Local marketing/transport6        Rs./MT          (230)         230         230
Economic Farm-gate Price           RS/MT         11,938      13,405      15,778
Financial Farm-gate Price         Rs./MT        10,0007       7,000       16,000
Conversion Factor                                  1.19        1.92        0.99
Parity: [I] Import. Sri Lanka is a net importer of rice.
2 World Bank price forecasts January 1999.
3 MUV index.
4 Between Colombo and Bangkok.
5 Official exchange rate (February 1999).
6 Adjusted by SCF of 0.85.
7 Including value of by-products.
52



Table 13. Net Incremental Value of Production at Full
Development for Economic Re-evaluation
Present    Ful:ure
With Project WIO Project
A. Production 1/ (Tons)
- Minor Schemes                         95,753     112,573     76,400
- Medium/Major Schemes                  67,222      75,518     53,780
Total                                 162,975     188,091    130,180
B. Economic Price of Rice Paddy (Rs./kg) 2/  12.18     12.18      12.18
C. Gross Value of Production (Rs. million)  1,985.0  2,290.9     1,585.6
D. Production Costs/ha "Economic" (Rs./ha) 3/    12,869  15,702  12,869
E. Total Area Cultivated (ha) 4/          46,807      47,529     37,445
F. Total Production Costs "Economic" (Rs.  602.4       746.3      481.9
million)
G. Net Value of Production (Rs. million)  1,382.7    1,544.6     1,103.7
H. Net Incremental Value of Production (Rs.                       440.9
million)
1 / Tables 6 and 7.
2/ Table 12.
3/ Tables 3 and 4.
4/ Tables 6 and 7.
53



Table 14. Economic Rate of Return
Investment   Net Incremental    Balance
Costs11        Value of
Production2/
.................... (Rs. million) .
1991           98.3                  0        -98.3
1992           80.8                  0        -80.8
1993          148.1                  0       -148.1
1994          205.2                  0       -205.2
1995          378.3               88.2      -290.1
1996          578.4              176.4      -402.0
1997          497.4              264.5       -232.9
1998          505.1              308.6       -196.5
1999          223.4              352.7       129.3
2000              0              396.8       396.8
2001 -2015          0               440.9       440.9
Economic Rate of Return: 14.1%
1/ Based on data presented in Table 11; a SCF of 0.85 has been
applied
to the local cost component estimated at 80% of total
investment costs.
2/  Presented in Table 13; values during project years are
estimated as follows:
1995: 20%; 1996: 40%; 1997: 60%; 1998: 70%; 1999: 80%;
2000: 90%; 2001: 100%.
54



Appendix C
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PItOJECT
(Credit 2260-CE)
Co-financier's Comments
EUROPEAN UNION
Delegation of the European Commission to Sri Lanka
81, Barnes Place, Colombo 7, Sri Lanka
Tel: 699745 / 698819 Fax: 698820
Date: 09 March 1999
Ref: JHG/psa-99/141
Mr Roberto Bentjerodt
Resident Representative
World Bank
DFCC Building (Ist Floor)
73/5, Galle Road
Colombo 3
Subject:     NIRP - Draft ICR
Ref:         Mr. Fernando's letter of 4 March
Dear Mr Bentjerodt,
The delegation has examined the draft report. We can broadly agree with the observations and would
support the conclusions and recommendations.
I would like to clarify the issue of the EC contribution, however, and ask that the relevant parts of the
draft (e.g. Table 8B) be modified accordingly. Basically we do not agree that our Food Aid
Counterpart funds should be classified within the GOSL contribution and would like it to be shown,
correctly, as part of the EC funding. In our financing agreement with the GOSL that amount of 7.58
million euro (ecu) is clearly distinguished as a Commission contribution to the project.
There was also an amendment to the F.A, made in 1995, in which we increased the grant component
by 0.45 million euro. I enclose a copy of the Appendix I to Annex A (attachment to Appendix C of
this ICR) of that Rider to illustrate that. It also shows that the anticipated GOSL component was less
than half that indicated in your table 8B. The summary statement of expenditure enclosed, which was
prepared by the CMC, also shows that the actual GOSL contribution was about 4.56 million euro, at
the current exchange rate.
55



I am sure you want your report to be accurate in all respects. As the EC undertook to finance more
than 25 percent of the estimated project cost that should not be misunderstood by the readers of the
final version so I look forward to the necessary corrections being made.
Yours sincerely,
Ilkka Uusitalo
Ambassador
Head of Delegation
Encl. as above
56



Attachment to Appendix C
APPENDIX 1 TO ANNEX OF EU GRANT AGREEMENT
FINANCING AGREEMENT:                      ALA/91/07 - National Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project
FINANCIAL BREAKDOWN
Budget Item              Initial Amount of EC  Initial Amount of EC  Modification    Modification  New Financial   New Financial    WB    GOSL
Contribution to  Contribution to    to initial  to initial     Breakdown      Breakdown    (IDA)
Financial Agreement  Financial Agreement  amount in  amount in    ECU in         ECU in
in               in           M.ECU         MECU           M.ECU          MECU
M.ECU            MECU
Art. 73000      ECFoodAid       Art. 73000   EC Food aid     Art. 73000    ECFoodAid
Counterpart Funds           Counterpart Funds             Counterpart Funds
Surveys and                                                         --                                                 0.42       --
Investigations             f_____
Civil Works                                                                                                           19.58    3.25
Engineering and                                                                                                         1.42    1.42
Administration                                             __       _
Farmer Organizations                  --                --                                                             2.25
Training                           1.070             0.850     (0.200)          (0.070)        0.780           0.780      --
Environmental Protection               --            0.830                      (0.830)           --              --    --
Institutional Support and          1.010             2.160     (1.010)          (0.603)                        1.557   0.08
Studies                                             __         _                                                         _
Aftercare Program                      --               --          --           0.900            --           0.900      --
Technical Assistance               0.580             3.670       1.670           0.200         2.250           3.870      --
Transport and Equipment            0.680             0.070     (0.079)           0.120         0.601           0.190   0.91    1.25
Contingencies                          --               --       0.159           0.283         0.159           0.283     --       --
TOTAL                              3.340             7.580       0.450           0.000         3.790           7.580  24.66    5.92
Rider N* 01 to Financing Agreement ALA/91/07



Appendix D
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 2260-CE)
Borrower's Comments and Observations on draft ICR
(Note: the paragraph numbers indicated below refer to the paragraph numbers of the Part I of draft ICR.
These paragraph numbers are differenet from that of the final ICR included in this report. Readers are
therefore requested to read the comments in relation to the subheadings of the final ICR)
Part I:   Project Implementation Assessment
A. Background and Statement/Evaluation of Objectives 1 to 4
Paragraph Nos 1 - 4    :      Agreed. No comments
Paragraph No. 5        :      Project Changes after Appraisal
The Project objective and purpose as stated in the logical framework prepared for European
Commission were:
Overall objective : Increase and more secure agricultural production in rehabilitated irrigation
schemes.
Project Purpose: Sustainably improved irrigation supplies in rehabilitated schemes.
It may be appropriate to mention about this in this paragraph.
Paragraph No 6 : Evaluation of Project Objectives.
It is mentioned that the project was well conceived with it's objectives being consistent with IDA
strategy. However, the main project objective to stabilise and increase agricultural production was
too demanding and unrealistic for the following reason:
Rehabilitation alone does not increase crop yields in irrigation schemes without an adequate
agricultural component. In fact, it is the latter component (agricultural extension, improved
agricultural practices etc) that contributes to a significant increase of production. In the project,
only a very small fund provision was available (about 0.2% of project cost) for agricultural
demonstrations. With such a low agricultural component, it is highly un-realistic to expect an
increase of production as project outcome. In fact, in the Logical Framework Approach the project
purpose is taken as the outcome of the project and the overall objective is considered as the
ultimate outcome with additional inputs external to the project.
58



B. Achievement of Project Objectives
Paragraph No. 7:
It would have been more appropriate to state that the project objectives were achieved only
partially through a partial project period. Further, at the time of SAR preparation, it was a very
well known that the PCs were being yet established and the fact that they would require some time
to organize themselves to undertake a task of this magnitude has not been duly recognized.
Further, it is more appropriate to compare the achievements with the project purpose in the
Logical Framework as mentioned under comments on paragraph No.6
Paragraph Nos: 8 & 9:
Conclusions have been made based on a survey carried out on a very small sample of rehabilitated
schemes. A better indication could be had after the Benchmark and E,valuation Study, undertaken
by a firm of Local Consultants, is completed.
Paragraph No. 10:
The statement that only 6 major/medium schemes out of a target of 35 schemes were
rahabiliated is incorrect and the total number of major/medium schemes completed by credit
closing date was 13. It should also be mentioned that the bulk of the balance schemes had
achieved a physical progress exceeding 75%.
Paragraph No.11:
The final sentence "Overall, only a few of the project FOs are reported to be functioning
satisfactorily" does not reflect the correct situation. A Performance Assessment Study carried out
by the Department of Agrarian Services on 953 schemes, have revealed that in 40% of the
schemes FO development has been highly successful and in about 42% of the schemes there is a
potential for success.
Already considerable work has been done in rehabilitated minor schemes to ensure a sustainable
O&M system. Steps have been taken to set up an O&M fund by the farmers. Even in
major/medium schemes, several FOs are functioning satisfactorily.
The World Bank seems to have used the number of FOs registered under clause 56b (of the
Agrarian Service Act) as the indicator to arrive at this conclusion. The issue of FOs attaining a
status under Clause 56b has been discussed at length during an earlier supervision mission. Also
the Bank agreed by then that this parameter should not be used as a performance indicator of the
NIRP. The Mission should amend its observations regarding this subject accordingly and
throughout the document
Paragraph No. 12:
The number of completed major/medium schemes mentioned should read as 13 and not as 11
Paragraph No. 13:
To state that the consultants have performed satisfactorily except for the institutional development
support at field level is misleading. It should be noted that a total of 7 Institutional Development
Officers (IDOs) were attached to the Regional Support Teams, and fiurther supported by a Senior
Institutional Advisor and a Farmer Training Specialist. With a permanent representation in the
field by these IDOs and through very frequent and intensive guidance by two senior specialists,
consultants have done the maximum to contribute to the further development and strengthening of
59



FOs and the Implementing Agencies (IAs). However, to expect, from this team a full coverage of
all 1000 minor schemes and 35 major/medium schemes is unrealistic. They had to rely (heavily)
on the training and coaching capacity of the IAs who were constrained by the lack of trainers.
This has - indeed - resulted in a less than optimal institutional strengthening ofFOs (and the IAs
for that matter) but to "blame" the consultants for that is incorrect.
At mid term review concern was expressed about this poor performance after which provisions
were made available (by the EU) to include a specifically designed component to the project (the
Aftercare Programme) to address the issue more directly. The development and initiation of this
programme has taken more time than anticipated, mainly due to the pressure to complete as much
as possible of the physical implementation. It seems that the programme is now firmly rooted, but
it is too early too assess - in earnest - its impact. In addition it should be noted that the overall
impact of the Aftercare Programme is expected to be limited due to constraints in available
resources. It would be appropriate if this is mentioned in the completion report.
Paragraph Nos: 14 & 16:  Agreed. No Comments
Paragraph No. 17
It should be noted that the IIMI offered a no cost extension of their services. However this was not
agreed to, by the EC due to the general poor performance of the IRMU. IIMI is partly to be
blamed for this poor performance by focussing very much attention to indulging in research
instead of actively pursuing the establishment and strengthening of this unit (which was their
mandate)
Paragraph No.18 - 19:  Agreed. No Comments.
Paragraph No. 20:
The project's Economic Rate of Return needs to be re-checked after completion of the Benchmark
and Evaluation Study, when more data would be available.
C. MajorFactorsAffecting the Project
Paragraph No. 21
It is mentioned that the quality of Civil Works was below expectations. A more appropriate
statement would be that the quality of Civil Works did not reach optimum levels in some of the
schemes.
Paragraph Nos: 22 - 23   Agreed. No Comments
Paragraph No. 24
The statement that the PCC was in-effective in providing policy guidance and strategic directions
to CMC is incorrect. The PCC was the apex body that directed the CMC in all policy matters
connected with the project.
Paragraph Nos: 25 - 26   Agreed. No Comments
60



D. BankPerformance
Paragraph No. 27
The statement "Therefore the Bank's performance in project identification/ preparation is rated
satisfactory" is not entirely correct (See comments Para.28)
Paragraph No. 28 :
It is mentioned that the important lesson learned from the implementation of VIRP, Viz. The
formation of FOs should come before the physical implementation, was not given adequate
attention at project design. This lesson was well known to the GOSI, as well as to the appraisal
mission of the Bank. Two members of the appraisal mission had been members of VIRP review
missions as well. Yet, at the time of appraisal, the World Bank team stressed for a programme
which included physical works during the first two years of the project. The implementation of
the NIRP further emphasized this lesson. Even at present, the World Bank seems to be not giving
head to this important lesson in the proposed North East Emergency Irrigated Agriculture Project
where steps are being taken to call for tenders to execute some physical works during the first few
months of the project.
The NIRP project criteria stipulated the handing over of head works and main canals of
major/medium schemes to FOs for O&M. The fallacy of this stipulalion was emphasised by the
GOSL delegation at negotiations. Yet, the Bank insisted on this stipulation. Other than for these
two aspects, it is agreed that the Bank's performance in project design and appraisal was
satisfactory.
Paragraph No. 29
The role of the ICRC and the UNHCR as part of an 'innovative project back-up and supervision
arrangement appears to be slightly overstated.
E. Borrower Performance
Paragraph No. 30:
(a) It is agreed that if Deputy Project Directors with adequate authority and support staff were
appointed in the provinces, the implementation could have been better coordinated and
managed in an island-wide project of the nature of NIRP
(b) The statement that the National Steering Committee failed to addlress the sector policy issues
and sustainability aspects is not correct. It must be mentioned that the sector policy issues
could not be addressed in isolation with respect to NIRP alone but should be addressed as a
national issue.
(c) Some Provincial Project Coordinating Committees were not very effective may be a more
appropriate statement.
(d) Agreed.
(e) This statement should be re-worded to mention that the quality cf civil works were not up to
optimum standards in some schemes.
61



F. Assessment of the outcome,
Paragraph No 31:
The project's overall outcome has been rated as unsatisfactory, as the project failed to establish an
effective and sustainable )&M  system  for the rehabilitated schemes.  This is very puzzling
considering the steps the project has taken (and is taking) to address the issue of sustainable O&M.
As pointed out under comments on paragraph No. 11, considerable work has been done to establish
an effective and sustainable O&M System in the rehabilitated minor schemes. This aspect is being
further pursued in the after-care programme. Even in major/medium schemes, considerable work is
being done under the aftercare programme to strengthen FOs to execute O&M. Further, the outcome
has to be compared with the project purpose of the Logical Framework. If this approach is adopted,
the project outcome could be assessed as satisfactory.
G.  Future Operations:
Paragraph Nos 32  :     Agreed. No Comments.
Paragraph No. 33
A very good suggestion has been made to conduct a joint (Bank and GOSL) post-project
impact evaluation on the status of FOs, status of O&M etc of rehabilitated schemes. This
study should be best done two to three years after rehabilitation, when the post project-
production situation also could be assessed better.
L LessonsLearned:
Paragraph No 34
(a) Irrigation rehabilitation . ...   Agreed
(b) Forming FOs and ........          This is the most important lesson learnt from
NIRP. Even then, the proposed NEEAP (to be funded by
a IDA Loan) does not even currently recognize the
necessity to develop and strengthen the FOs (established
or to be established) prior to rehabilitation.
(c) The land tenure .........          Agreed. Again at appraisal, the Sri Lanka delegation
pointed out that the 10% contribution is beyond the farmers capacity to bear.
(d)    Improvements to One ......     Agreed.
(e)    It is essential .........      Agreed
(f)    To assure the .........         Agreed
(g)    From the point ........        Agreed. However, the Bank also had a responsibility to
ensure that this system was adopted.
(h)    The establishment . ....       Agreed.
(e)    International .......           This is a policy matter to be decided at National level.
(F)    Implementation responsibility:    In a national project of this nature, the mainauthority
(Project Director) should be at center and should be supported by Deputy Project Directors at
provincial level.
62



J. General Comments
(I)    Paragraph on Key Factors Affecting the Project - of the Evaluatioln Summary.
Notwithstanding the other factors, listed in this paragraph, thz delay in appointment of
consultants was 17 months. The project therefore may be deemed to have commenced in June
1993 and closed in June 1998 when project performance was at its peak. The project period
was therefore six years and one month. The project closure vwas at a time when project
performance was at its peak. It is regretted that this has only been mentioned and not taken
into account in the evaluation of the project performance.
(II).  It must be mentioned that the European Union, the Co-financier -- provided funds to the time
of around 25% of the project cost. This included crucial components of the project such as
training, technical assistance, quality control, Aftercare programme and the provision of
training and laboratory equipment. The completion report does not reflect very much on this
aspect.
(III)  The Project Completion mission of the World Bank had discussions with the European
Commission. However, their views are not reflected in the report.
(IV)  It is erroneously mentioned in the evaluation summary that the progress of major/medium
schemes was 17% at credit closure. This should be corrected to read as 75%
63



Appendix E
Borrower's Project Implementation Completion Evaluation Summary
DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL RESOURCES
Ministry of Finance and Planning
The Secretariat
P.O.Box 277, Colombo 1, SRI LANKA
27t May, 1999
Ms. Mariana Todorova
Country Director
World Bank Office
Colombo
Dear Ms. Todorova
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
BORROWER'S PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I forward herewith the Borrower's Project Completion Report of the National Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project. While the contents of the report are endorsed the following need to be
further highlighted:
1. Where beneficiary contribution is anticipated an institutional development phase must
precede construction.
2. Bank funding cycles would not normally coincide with rehabilitation cycles, especially where
major schemes are invited and cultivation is the only source of income of farmers which
requires staggered rehabilitation programmes in line with the cultivation seasons. In
developed major schemes rehabilitation project implementation has taken between 7-10 years
to complete including in earlier Bank funded projects.
3. With the banks experience in similar projects the decision not to extend the loan closing date
notwithstanding that the projects initial delays were beyond its control and progress and
improved significantly in the last two years is inexplicable. This created a disharmony
between the institutional and construction activities the latter having to be telescoped and
64



accelerated as a result. This has in some cases affected the turn over programme to FO and
possibly sustainability as anticipated under the Project.
4. Notwithstanding great emphasis to and mention of the need for institutional development the
composition of the many Bank Missions have been engineering biased and ultimate decision
making highlight preoccupation with infrastructure. The EC focus on institutional aspects is
heartening.
5. The need for after care maintenance of institutional programmes have been highlighted and
are necessary in future projects if FO sustainability and financial viability needed to reinforce
efficient O&M is anticipated. It is noted that at least a lead time of two years is required for
initial institutional start up where FO do not exist and at least one year after care subsequent
to completion of construction activities for institutional consideration.
Issues relating to land tenure, quality control, selection of schemes etc. as highlighted in the
Implementation Completion Report of the Bank have been noted for action.
Yours sincerely,
Nalini Madanayake
Director/World Bank Division
For DG/ERD
cc:   1. Secretary/Ministry of Irrigation & Power
2. Project Director (NIRP)
65



SUMMARY OF BORROWER'S EVALUATION OF
THE NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR.2260-CE)
1.    Background
1.1    Project Development Objectives:
The project objectives at appraisal were; (a) Stabilize and increase agricultural production and
incomes; and (b) Raise the standard of living of farmers, through rehabilitation and improved operation
and maintenance (O&M) of existing irrigation schemes. Subsidiary Objectives were (I) Upgrading skills
of farmers and staff of the implementing agencies; and (ii) Creating viable farmer organizations (FOs) for
managing the rehabilitated schemes. At the time of preparation of Consultants Inception Report for
European Commission (EC), the project objectives were reviewed and amended. The main reason for the
review was that the project activities primarily focused on improving irrigation supplies, while only a very
limited project activity, namely conducting agricultural demonstrations (amounting to 0.2% of the project
cost) concerned the agricultural development. According to the EC, the overall objective was increased
and more secure agricultural production in rehabilitated irrigation schemes, and project purpose was
sustainable improved irrigation supplies in rehabilitated schemes.
1.2    Project Components:
The main project components were: (i) Rehabilitation and Improvement of 1000 minor and
35 medium/major schemes covering a total irrigable area of 37,500 ha; (ii) Establishment of Farmer
Organizations and Introduction of improved O&M practices in all rehabilitated schemes; (iii) Training of
farmers and staff of the implementing agencies; (iv) Environmental protection studies and works; (v)
Establishment of three new support units in Irrigation Department (Research Management Unit, Dam
Safety Unit, Quality Control Unit); (vi) Aftercare Program (included after 1995); (vii) Consultancy
services for project planning, implementation, and impact assessment; and (viii) Procurement of vehicles
and equipment.
1.3    Project Cost and Financing
The project was estimated to cost US$ 49.8 million at appraisal. The IDA provision was US$
29.6 million while EC contribution was a direct grant of US$ 4.0 million and a food aid grant of US$ 9.0
million. The balance US$ 7.2 million was to be provided by the Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL). The
last disbursement took place on May 1I, 1999. An amount equivalent to US$ 5.0 million was cancelled in
1997. With that the total IDA contribution to the project would be US$ 24.6 million. There is an
unutilized balance of US$ 597,596.66 in the Project's Special Account maintained at the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka. This amount will be returned to IDA soon.
2.    Borrower's Assessment of project objectives and achievements
2.1    Appropriateness of Project Objectives
The project objectives mentioned in para 1.1 were in conformity with the Government of Sri
Lanka's policy on agricultural development and irrigation management transfer and were appropriate at
the time of project design in 1991.
66



2.2    Size of the Project and Scope of Investment:
Even though the project objective was to stabilize and increase agricultural production, only a
very limited project activity, namely conducting agricultural demonstrations (fund provision of about
0.2% of the project cost) was directly related to increasing agricultural production. As rehabilitation and
improved operation and maintenance alone would not ensure an increase in. agricultural production, an
agricultural extension component with adequate financial provision should have been included. Other
than this aspect, the other project components and financial provision were adequate.
2.3    Achievement of Project Objectives.
Quantitative Progress:  The project completed the rehabilitation of 830 minor schemes and 13
major/medium schemes on the original credit closing date on 30 June 1998. However, a total of 1,048
minor schemes and 34 major/medium schemes would be completed by June 30, 1999 using GOSL funds.
Farmer organizations (FOs) were formed in all minor schemes and in 207 Distributary and field (D&F)
canal systems by June 30, 1998. All these FOs were registered under clause 56 A of the Agrarian
Services. Act, implying that they are formally accepted FOs. As of June, 30, 1998 550 numbers of
completed minor schemes and 20 numbers of D&F systems were handed over to the FOs. As of April
1999, 675 completed minor schemes and 67 completed D&F systems were handed over. O&M funds
have been set up in 275 minor schemes. As regards training, the project successfully financed the
completion of three Masters Degrees and study tours/short-term training for 243 staff persons. Most of the
short-term training courses and study tours have been rated very useful. The establishment of the Dam
Safety Unit in the Irrigation Department (ID) could not be achieved as the EC funding was withdrawn.
The project successfully supported the strengthening of the Civil Works Quality Control Unit of the ID,
but could not build up the Irrigation Research Management Unit (ID) as envisaged. Consultancy services
for project planning and implementation was successfully utilized and project procurement targets other
than procuring some vehicles under EC funding were achieved during the proj ect period.
Qualitative Progress:  The project purpose (as per logical framework  prepared for European
Commission) was sustainable improved irrigation supplies in rehabilitated schemes and this was
satisfactorily achieved by the project. However, the project requirement of 10% contribution by farmers
was not fully achieved by the credit closing date, particularly in major/medium schemes. In some
districts, similar rehabilitation projects being implemented concurrently with NIRP did not have a farmer
contribution component, which caused difficulties in convincing the farmers for the necessity of this
contribution.
The establishment of farmer organisations was successfully executed.  A performance
assessment survey of FO status in minor schemes revealed that the FO development has been highly
successful in 40% of the rehabilitated schemes while in another 42% of the schemes, a potential exists for
success. The ongoing after-care programme included as a project component after mid-term review in
1995, is expected to improve the status further, especially in the schemes where there is a potential for
success. With the setting up of O&M fund, the FOs in minor schemes should reach a sustainable status
and execute O&M works as envisaged in the project.
In major/medium schemes, even though the FOs have been established, motivation ofFOs to
undertake O&M is difficult than in minor schemes. However, with the ongoing after-care programme, it
is expected that the FOs would reach a status to execute the O&M of the distributory and field canals.
However, the project's expectation of tuming over headworks and main canals of major/medium schemes
to FOs for O&M would not be realized.
67



3.    Borrower's Assessment of Implementation Experience
3.1   Implementation Problems
The Central Management Cell (CMC) headed by the Project Director was responsible for the
management of the implementation of all project activities. An integral part of the CMC was a team
Expatriate and Local Consultants. The Project Director was appointed in 1991, just prior to project
negotiations, but there was a long delay in appointing the other staff for the CMC. The Consultants were
mobilized only in mid-1993 and the Project Accountant was appointed even later, in November, 1993.
The non-engineering government staff for the CMC were never appointed. These delays caused immense
difficulties in the management of the project upto 1994 and was one of the major causes for the poor
progress in initial years.
At the time of project appraised, the Provincial Councils (PCs) were at it's infancy and were
lacking in resources (especially in experienced staff) to execute the project works. It took a considerable
time, nearly two years, for the PCs to gear themselves by recnmitment of staff etc, to implement the
project, thus causing a shortfall in progress.
Another major problem was the irregular cash flow during the implementation. The rehabilitation
activities generally peak during the period May-September each year and during this period difficulties
arose in getting imprest released from the Treasury. This problem was an annual occurrence.
During project design, sufficient provision has not been provided for the procurement of vehicle.
Even some of the provided vehicles (under EU funding) could not be procured due to procedural delays.
This caused difficulties in project supervision.
Other problems that affected the implementation was a prolonged strike of the Technical
Assistants of the Irrigation Department and excessive rainfall during three consecutive years.
3.2    Assessment of Borrower's Performance
The feasibility studies for the project was based on detailed studies done on seventeen sample
schemes. The number of schemes studied was too small for a project proposing to rehabilitate over 1000
schemes. The selection of sample schemes was not representative of different agro-climate conditions.
Other than this aspect, the borrower's performance during the project preparation and design was
satisfactory.
The progress of implementation upto 1994, was not satisfactory for reasons already mentioned
under paragraph 3.1. However, progress improved tremendously after 1995 and the overall performance
of the borrower during the implementation phase was satisfactory.
3.3    Assessment of Bank's Performance
The performance of the Bank during the project preparation, design and appraisal was satisfactory
except for the following two aspects.
(a)    At project preparation, the Borrower with experience gained from the implementation of the
Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (VIRP), fore-runner to NIRP, emphasized the necessity to
68



provide sufficient lead time in the project to establish FOs prior to commencement of
rehabilitation and that there should not be any rehabilitation work during this lead period.
However, the Bank disagreed and urged for an implementation programme providing for some
rehabilitation works to be undertaken during the first two years.
(b)    The Borrower, at negotiations, emphasized the impracticability of the project criteria stipulating
the handing over of head works and main canals of rehabilitated major/medium schemes to FOs
for O&M. However, the Bank insisted on this stipulation.
(c)    The supervision missions of the Bank were timely and were very useful as valuable suggestions
were given to improve perfornance. However, most of the mission members were of an
engineering background and there were no members with adequate experience in farmer
organization development. This was a drawback as the project experienced difficulties in
executing the FO development component effectively. Eventhough, the project was financed
jointly by IDA and EC, there were only two joint supervision mission. This was another
drawback.
During the letter stages of the project, the office of the Resident Representative of the
World Bank in Colombo was upgraded to a Country Department. Subsequently, the supervision
of the project was transferred to the Country Department and resolution of implementation
problems requiring Bank intervention became easier. The refusal of the Bank to grant one-year
extension was disappointing in view of the tremendous improvement of progress of
implementation after mid term review
3.4    Assessment of Performance of European Commission (EC)
The EC was not involved in the project planning and came to the picture only at
negotiation stage. Most of the officers in the Central Managemeni Cell including the Project
Director were not exposed to rigorous procedures of the EC earlier and experienced initial
difficulties in the implementation of the respective project components. The absence of an EC
Delegation in Sri Lanka at that time compounded the difficulties. However, later with the setting
up of a Delegation in Colombo, adequate support was made available to the project to resolve
implementation problems expeditiously. Invaluable help was rendered by the staff of the
Delegation in the preparation of annual work plans.
The Supervision missions of the EC also provided valuable guidance for project
implementation and the mission members had the necessary background experience.
The only instance where the EC performance was unsatis:factory was their failure to
approve the tender dossier for procurement of vehicles without giving a valid reason. As such, the
vehicles provided under EC funding for quality control purposes were not purchased.
4.    Key Lessons Learned
4.1   Project Formulation
(a) Sample Schemes
The sample of 17 schemes studied in detail, for project feasibility, was not very representative of
the agro-climate conditions and also was too small considering the total number of schemes to be
69



rehabilitated under the project. In future projects, a representative sample of appropriate size
should be selected.
(b) Implementing Agencies
At project preparation stage, the capabilities of implementing agencies to execute the project
activities should to be properly assessed.
(c)    Resources for Implementing Agencies
The requirement of staff, vehicles and other resources should be assessed thoroughly at project
preparation stage and once assessed, provision should be made without arbitrary reductions.
4.2    Project Planning, Design and Implementation
(a)   Project Logical Framework
The Logical Frame Work Approach (LFA) is a very effective tool for project planning and
implementation. Unfortunately, LFA for NIRP was prepared only at implementation
stage. In future projects, this approach should be adopted from the project preparation
stage.
(b) Selection of schemes for rehabilitation.
In NIRP, there was no hydrological criteria for selection of schemes. In future projects,
hydrological criteria should be stipulated, especially for the selection of schemes in a cascade.
(c) Farmer Contribution
In future projects, the farmer contribution should be confined to earthwork in minor canals.
During execution of NIRP, farmers experienced difficulties in fulfilling the 10%
contribution, particularly in schemes where the quantum of minor works (which farmers
could execute) was low.
(d) Implementation Programme and Lead Time
In future rehabilitation projects, an initial two year period (lead time) devoted entirely to FO
development should be allowed. The rehabilitation should not commence until the FOs have
reached a status to discharge their commitments. The recruitment of staff, procurement of
vehicles etc could be carried out during this lead time period. This is the most important lesson
learnt from NIRP.
(e) Quality Control
(i) Inexperienced Contractors
The works in minor schemes under NIRP in most instances, were executed by inexperienced
contractors which put an additional burden on quality control.  In future projects, it is
advantageous to pre-quality contractors.
70



(ii) Supervisory Consultants
Employing independent consultants in future projects with authority to certify payments
would enhance the quality of works. In NIRP, the Regional Support Teams were not empowered
to suspend payments of poor quality works.
4.3    Project Sustainability
(a)   Income Generating Activities
The sustainability of schemes rehabilitated under NIRP depends on proper execution of
O&M by the FOs. In order to achieve this, FOs should be sustainable. A sound financial
status is very essential for FO sustainability and income generating activities (other than
farming alone) are needed for this purpose. The NIRP did not provide support for any
income generating activities. In future projects, such support is a must to ensure FO
sustainability. These activities could commence during i;he lead time period of the
project.
(a)    Operation and Maintenance Fund
In future projects, creation of an O&M fund by collection f-rom FO members during the
lead time period should be stipulated as a criteria for selection of a scheme for
rehabilitation.
4.4    After-care Programme
This is another very important lesson learnt from the NIRP.  The after-care programme was
introduced into NIRP after mid-term review with the objective to strengthen FOs to eventually
execute proper O&M of rehabilitated schemes to ensure sustainability. The initial results of this
programme are very promising and this type of programme should be included as a component in
future rehabilitation projects.
4.5    Project Management
The Central Management Cell (CMC) headed by the Project Director (PD) and supported by the
expatriate Co-Project Director was responsible for the implementation of all the project
components. The CMC was set up within the Irrigation Department (ID) and the PD was at the
third level of department hierarchy. The donors expected the PD to take many important
decisions regarding project implementation, for which the PD was not delegated with sufficient
authority. A vast project of this nature involving many implementing agencies could have been
better managed if the CMC and the PD were outside the bureaucral:ic control of ID.
The ideal situation would have been to set up the CMC under the Secretary of the Ministry as in
the case of North-Western Resources Project financed by the ADB, This is also a very important
lesson for future projects of this nature.
71



4.6   Project Account
Time and again during project implementation, cash flow difficulties were faced by the
implementing Agencies. This was mainly due to difficulties, the PD encountered in getting timely
releases of imprest from the Treasury. To avoid this problem in future projects, the PD should be
authorised to maintain a separate account and at the beginning of every financial year, the
Treasury should advance an imprest to the PD (say about 75% of the expenditure forecast for the
year as per approved work plan). The balance 25% could be released once the money allocated is
used up. This procedure is already in operation for European Commission funded projects.
5.0   Future Operations
NIRP was the first nation wide attempt to set up FOs and turnover of O&M to beneficiaries and a
wealth of experience was gained during the implementation. A joint post-project evaluation by
GOSL/Bank to assess the positive and negative aspects to would provide a valuable insight to the
current irrigation management policies and turnover action plan of GOSL.
72



MAP SECTION






IBRD 22876
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION
tJ                               )                                            REHABILITATION PROJECT
LC)CATION OF SCHEMES
OLOMETES 0   10  20  30  40  \0                                                                               Appraised Schemes:
CM     Medium and Major Schemes
0      Minor Schemes
Prepared Schemes
t \   'L<Medium and Major Schemes
0       Minor Schemes
4 < _        <      -          Ntornobe            - - -  Agro-Climafic Zones
./  > 3X  /> (       .'                       - -  Major Roads
f  i   Anuraclhapuradhap 12                                             DistrictCapitals
0   Province Capitals
@     _     , ,    li   Notioncl Capitol
0;b;>>/               -                     - - \ X ,.<ri' } Mft - International Boundary
/  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l 
Batticloa
ts  vr0  |  -X   D
=/    -  I                                                                    of
.- X   r o /  *   /  /   Kandy&->  -  i\ -  -  - +   fiFpv  t           Bengal
COLOMBO                                 \duIIa 5
16
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
2     Os,sow                                      Rat_napura   Ofj'2            ';     
3 MoKiOibsio K,m2   Hnbi.s5W
4 I4o.YswoaSl4*se sSrr  rrr
5 soeo;ww SE1 Wo*                                                                    !                     \
6 0o-kodM  Elo. -i.                                                                                                         STs2o
7 W-- T-iS
E Ud*go4o ssdrEo EslfiO
9 GogwedoRssoElao O,gsig V s  1    \    i)    y   \                                                                        INDIA
Is &4eiO A-,soo V  -NDIA
&e~s~sTo.k
14 6rodo -oMoLA4
IS Afrlls0oodTco                     Gls                               rS=                 oa                                             R
15 &roooo Moh s                                                                                                       LACCADVE
16 Alolh M  Elf                                                                                                         Sf:A b
17 sUigalokAsroD.'.s          rY-                                                                                                       F       199
FEBRUARY 1 991



