Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C    /  .g               S-, f-  -       C  :
1 ; I   .  f f . ':: !   . 1 ,, 1                                 Report No. 9425-CE
.,,  1.    .  I): , -:
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRR'GATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAY 9, 1991
Agriculture operations Division
Country DepF  tment I
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in t ae perfonnance of
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(December 1990)
Currency Unit               Sri Lanka Rupee (SL Rs)
SL Rs 1             =       US$ 0.0248
US$1.00             =       SL Rs 40.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)      =       2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)   =        0.62 mile (mi)
1 metric ton (mt)  =        2,205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB   - Asian Development Bank
APT   -  Agricultural Planning Team
ASC   -  Agrarian Services Center
CIDA  -  Canadian International Development Agency
CMC   -  Central Management Cell
DAS   -  Department of Agrarian Services
EEC   -  European Economic Community
ERR   -  Economic Rate of Return
FO    -  Farmer Organization
GOSL  -  Government of Sri Lanka
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
ID    -  Irrigation Department
IDA   -  International Development Association
IIMI  -  International Irrigation Management Institute
IMD   -  Irrigation Management Division
IMPSA -  Irrigation Management Policy Support Activity
INMAS -  Integrated Management of Major Irrigation Schemes
IO    -  Institutional Organizer
IRDP  -  Integrated Rural Development Project
ITI   -  Irrigation Training Institute
LCB   -  Local Competitive Bidding
MASL  -  Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka
MIRP  - Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
MLIMD -  Ministry of Lands, Irrigation, and Mahaweli Development
NIRP  -  National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
O&M   -  Operation and Maintenance
PCC   -  Project Coordination Committee
RST   -  Regional Support Team
SCF   -  Standard Conversion Factor
SDC   -  Swiss Development Cooperation
SOE   -  Statement of Expenditure
TIMP  -  Tank Irrigation Modernization Project
USAID -  United States Agency for International Development
VIRP  -  Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
GLOSSARY
anicut       -  diversion structure
Maha         -  northeast monsoon season (October to February)
paddy        -  unhusked rice
tank        -  impounding reservoir
Yala         -  southwest monsoon season (April to September)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Amount:                  SDR 21.9 million (US$29.6 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Cofinancier:             The European Economic Community (EEC) will provide a
grant of ECU 3.34 million (US$4.0 million equivalent)
Project Objectives:     The main objectives of the project are to protect and
increase agricultural production and incomes and to
raise the standard of living of the beneficiaries
through rehabilitation and improved operation and
maintenance (O&M) of existing irrigation schemes.
Subsidiary objectives are to: (a) upgrade the skills
of staff of implementing agencies and the farmers; and
(b) establish viable farmer organizations (FO) for
managing the rehabilitation schemes.
Description:            The proposed seven-year project (1991-97) would be
nationwide in scope and include: (a) rehabilitation
and improvement of about 1,000 minor and 60 medium/
major irrigation schemes covering about 37,500 ha;
(b) establishment of FOs and introduction of improved
O&M practices in all rehabilitation schemes;
(c) training of staff of implementing agencies and
farmers; (d) execution of environmental. protection
works and studies; (e) establishment of three new
support units in the Irrigation Department (ID) and
execution of hydrological and socio-economic studies;
(f) provision of consultants' services for project
planning, implementation, and impact assessment; and
(g) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- it -
Benefits and Riskst      As a result of the project, the average incomes of
some 100,000 farm families would increase by about 152
to 552 over present levels due to higher crop
production after rehabilitation and improvement of the
schemes and introduction of better O&M practices. At
the same time, their current incomes would be better
protected against losses arising from deterioration of
scheme facilities. The project would also generate an
additional annual labor demand for farm activities of
about 2,000 person-years, largely hired labor.
Temporary off-farm employment created during project
implementation is estimated at about 7,000 person-
years which would primarily benefit the landless.
Less than adequate staffing of the new provincial
administrations and a slower than expected pace of
establishing FOs may delay the implementation of the
project. Therefore, a Central Management Cell would
be established at ID, and consultants employed, to
assist the provincial administrations with project
planning and implementation.  When necessary, key
implementation tasks would be transferred from the
provinces to the central ID.  Institutional organizers
would be employed temporarily in all rehabilitation
schemes to assist the process of formation of FOs and
minimize the risk of implementation delays.
Estimated Project Cost:
Local       Foreign      Total
- - - - - US$ million - - - -
Rehabilitation and Improvement Works:
Surveys and Investigations                        0.4           -          0.4
Civil Works                                      15.8          3.0        18.8
Engineering and Administration                    2.2           -          2.2
Subtotal                                     18.4          3.0        21.4
Farmer Organizations                                1.9           -          1.9
Training                                            0.8          1.2         2.0
Environmental Protection                            0.7           -           0.7
Institutional Support and Studies                   2.1          0.9         3.0
Technical Assistance                                3.1          0.6          3.7
Vehicles and Equipment                              1.6          1.7          3.3
Base Cost                                    28.6          7.4        36.0
Physical Contingencies                              0.9          0.2          1.1
Price Contingencies                                11.7          1.0        12.7
Total Cost a/                                41.2          8.6        49.8
a/ Including taxes and duties of US$2.3 million



Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign      Aotal
- - - - - US$ million - - - -
Government                                         16.2             -         16.2
EEC                                                               4.0          4.0
IDA                                                25.0           4.6         29.6
Total                                        41.2           8.6         49.8
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credits
FY           1992      1993       1994       1995        1996      1997       1998
--------------------------US$ million----------------------------
Annual        2.0       1.9        5.5        5.6         5.6        5.0       4.0
Cumulative   2.0       3.9         9.4       15.0        20.6      25.6       29.6
Economic Rate of Return: 312
Map: IBRD 22876



- iv -
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.   SECTOR AND PROJECT BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
A.  The Agriculture Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
B.  The Irrigation Subsector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
C.  Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
II.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
A.  Rationale for IDA Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
B.  Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
C.  Project Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
D.  Detailed Features   .........  ..0. ...... 10
III.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
A.  Project Cost     . . . . . . . .        . . . . . . . . . . 16
B. Project Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...... . 17
C. Procurement         .  .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
D. Disbursements        .    . . . . . . . . . . . .... . .    19
E. Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ....       20
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ......................... . 21
A. Implementation Schedule   .................. 21
B. Organization and Management   . . . .....  . . . . . . . 21
C. Reporting Requirements  .  . .... . .   . . . . . . . . . . 25
D. Project Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited
Sri Lanka in November/December 1990. The mission comprised Messrs. H. van
Voorthuizen, C. Maguire, T. Abeysekera (IDA), G. Schokman, Y.K. Murthy, and
P. Senerath (Consultants). Mr. J. Pruntel (IDA) also contributed to the
report. The peer reviewers were Messrs. J. Srivastava (overall project
content and technical aspects), J. Berkoff (overall project content and
institutional aspects), and J. Bredie (training component). The report was
endorsed by Messrs. S. Asanuma (Director, Country Department 1, Asia Region),
and C. Helman (Chief, Agriculture Operations Division).



-v-
V.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
A.   Agricultural Production  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
B.   Marketing and Prices   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . 29
C.   Farm Incomes     . .   . . . . . . . ..       .    . . . . 29
D.   Economic Analysis  .  . . . . . .   . . . . .  . . . . . . . . 30
E.   Sensitivity Analysis, Special Emphasis, and Risks  . . . . . 31
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . .          . . . . 32
ANNEXES
1.  Rehabilitation and Improvement Works  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
A. Criteria for Selection of Schemes . . . . .  .   .  . . .33
B. Guidelines for Breparation of Minor Scnemes . . . . . . . . .34
Table 1: Appraisel and Prepared Schemes . . . . . . . . . . . .39
Table 2:  Identified Medium/Major Tank Schemes . . . . . . . . .40
Table 3:  Identified Medium/Major Diversion Schemes  . . . . . .42
Table 4:  Identified Minor Schemes .         .  .  .  . . .43
2.  Formation of Farmer Organizations and Improved Operation and
Maintenance . . . . . . .         .. . .  .    .. .   . .45
3.  Training and Staff Development   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Attachment 1: Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants . . . . 57
Table 1:  Training Program  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . 60
4.  Environmental Protection   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
5.  Institutional Support and Studies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
A.  Irrigation Research Management Unit  . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
B. Dam Safety Unit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
C. Quality Control Unit . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
D. Hydrological and Water Management Study  . . . . . . . . . . 69
E.  Socio-economic Study  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . . . . . . . . 71
6.  Technical Assistance for Project Implementation and Evaluation   . 73
I. Project Planning and Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
II.  Benchmark and Evaluation Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
7.  Project Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
8.  Cost Estimates
Tables 1-6: Rehabilitation/Improvement Works
Appraised Schemes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Tables  7-8: Rehabilitation/Improvement Works,
Prepared Schemes   . . .. .. . . . ..      . . .92
Tables 9-10: Rehabilitation/Improvement Works,
Unprepared Schemes   . . . . . . . . .&. . . . 94
Table   11: Improved Operation and Maintenance,
Studies, and VIRP Carry-over Works   . . . . . 96
Table   12: Dam Safety, Quality Control, and
Research Management Units  . . . . . . . . . . 97
Table   13: Training - Human Resources Development   . . . . . 98



- vi -
Table   14t Training - Specialist Staff, Buildings,
Equipment Furniture and Vehicles   . . . . . . 99
Table   15:  Implementation Support for Rehabilitation/
Improvement Works - Consultancy Services,
Vehicles and Equipment   . . . . . . . . . . 100
Table   16: Impact Assessment Studies  . . . . . . . . . . . 101
9.  Financing and Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... 102
Table ls Financing Plan by Summary Accounts  . . . . . . . . 102
Table 2: Proposed Credit Allocation  . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
Table 3:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . 104
10.  Procurement Schedules  .                  .  ......  .   .... . . . 105
Schedule 1: Civil Works  . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Schedule 2: Vehicles and Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
11.  Crop Production and Incomes of Appraised Schemes   . . . . . . . 109
Tables  1-6: Crop Area, Yield and Production . . . . . . . . 109
Tables 7-12: Fara Budget    . . . . ..           .115
12.  Economic Analysis of Appraised Schemes   . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
Table 1: Derivation of Economic Prices . . . . . . . . . . . 121
Table 2: Summary of Economic and Financial Prices  . . . . . 122
Table 3: Summary of Project Economic Rate of Return and Net
Present Value of Six Appraised Schemes   . . 123
13.  Project Performance Indicators   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
14.  Related Documents in Project File  . ..   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 125
CHART  48721: Project Management and Implementation -
Organization Structure   . . . . . . . . . . 127
MAP    IBRD 22876: Location of Schemes



SRI LANKA
NATIONAL XPRIGATION REMAILITATION PROJECT
I. SECTOR AND PREJECT BACKGROUND
A. The Agriculture Sector
1.01      Sri Lanka is commonly divided into three agro-ecological zones based
on climate, soils and vegetation -- the dry, intermediate and wet zones.
Annual ,ainfall, at 75X probability levels, varies from about 600-900 mm in
the dry zone, to about 1,200-1,500 mm in the intermediate zone, and over 2,000
mm in the wet zone. The most drought-prone districts experience drought once
every three or four years during the Ylla (southwest monsoon) crop season and
once every five to seven years during the Maha (northeast monsoon) season.
The frequency of the dry spells causes wide year-to-year variations in crop
areas and yields. Food crops dominate farming in the dry and intermediate
zones -- paddy is grown in the bottom lands, and other food crops are
cultivated under rainfed conditions on the better-drained lands and upper
slopes. Tree crops are grown at higher elevations and paddy is cultivated in
the valley bottoms and plains of the wet zone. Sri Lanka has a total land
area of about 6.5 million ha, of which about 1.6 ha million is cultivated
permanently; shifting cultivation is practiced on about 1.1 million ha. Tree
crops account for about 900,000 ha of the cultivated land, highland annual
crops for about 100,000 ha, and paddy for about 600,000 ha. About 80X of all
paddy land is under the command of irrigation systems.
1.02      At present, the agriculture sector contributes about one quarter of
GDP and is the main source of employment for more than 2.2 million persons
(about 45X of the active labor force). With three-quarters of the population
living in rural areas, agriculture is the single most important source of
livelihood for these people. About 331 of the country's exports were derived
from agriculture in 1989. These exports came primarily from tree crops: tea,
rubber, and coconut. Overall agricultural performance during the last decade
has been mixed. The sector achieved a 41 annual growth rate between 1978 and
1986, but experienced almost no growth from 1987 to 1989. Tree crop
production has stagnated or declined during much of the decade, underlining
the need for major restructuring of the sector. Paddy production increased to
near self-sufficiency levels in the early 1980s, but despite continuing
expansion of irrigated areas (para 1.03), production has stagnated during the
last five years, mainly due to a string of below-average rainfall years and
civil disturbances in many parts of the country. The Government of Sri Lanka
(GOSL) is currently reconsidering its long-standing policy goal of attaining
self-sufficiency in paddy production, often at the expense of othe- crops.
GOSL now also emphasizes the preservation and improvement of existimng
irrigation schemes on which most of the production of paddy depends.



-2-
B. The Irrigation Subsector
Past Develonments
1.03      Irrigation has bebn practiced in Sri Lanka since ancient times and
is almost exclusively used for the cultivation of paddy. Schemes in the dry
zone have storage reservoirs which assure supplemental irrigation during dry
spells in the Maha season and, to some extent, also make it possible to
cultivate crops during the Yala season. Diversion (anicut) schemes on
perennial streams in the intermediate and wet zones assure 3upelemental
irrigation during both crop seasons. Irrigation has been a major focus of
development since tne country gained its independence in 1948. Reducing
unemployment through settlement of the dry zone, achieving self-sufficiency in
food production, and development of hydropower, have been major policy goals
of successive governments, particularly after 1977. Since 1970, the total
area under irrigation has expanded by at least 200,000 ha, and in 1990 it
reached about 550,000 ha. The multi-purpose Mahaweli Development Program was
the government's single largest investment scheme during the late 1970s and
1980s, accounting in its peak year (1984) for 39% of total public capital
investments and 92% of all investments in the irrigation sector.
1.04      To date, some 255,000 ha of irrigated land is served by about 75
major schemes (over 600 ha), including 45,000 ha under the Mahaweli Program.
An additional 45,000 ha is irrigated by medium schemes (80 - 600 ha). Most of
the medium and major schemes are located in the dry zone and were built or
restored by GOSL over the last 40 years. GOSL also retained the
responsibility for operation and maintenance (O&M) of these schemes. Some
235,000 ha is served by about 22,000 minor schemes (less than 80 ha). About
65% of the land under minor schemes is located in the dry zone and is
irrigated from tanks; the remaining 35% is supplied by anicuts. Typically,
the minor schemes are operated and maintained by the farmers themselves.
However, over the years government agencies have provided assistance for the
construction or rehabilitation of structures such as tank bunds, spillways,
outlet sluices, diversion weirs, and some distributory canals and turnouts.
Institutions
1.05      Over the last two decades there has been a proliferation of
government departments and agencies serving the irrigation sector. The recent
transfer of authority from the central government to the provincial councils
has added to the complexity of the situation. Due to inefficiencies in the
use of staff and other resources, the current level of services to the
irrigation sector is less than optimal.
1.06      The Irrigation Department (ID) is the oldest among the irrigation
sector institutions. Until the advent of the provincial administrations, ID
was fully responsible for managing construction and O&M activities in
medium/major schemes, with the exceptions noted in paras 1.07 and 1.08 below.
In addition, ID executes externally financed rehabilitation works in minor
schemes, e.g. under the IDA-financed Village Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
(VIRP, Cr. 1160-CE, now closed) and several ongoing or completed Integrated
Rural Development Projects (IRDP). ID operates in the field through range



offices and irrigation divisions. Until recently ID had a staff of about
6,800 persons, including about 400 engineers.
_ '7 The Mahaweli Authority of Sri Lanka (MASL) since the early 1970. has
been responsible for the planning, implementation and O&M of the Mahaweli
Development Program. MASL operates through several work organizations, of
which the Mahaweli Engineering and Construction Agency and the Mahaweli
Economic Agency are the two largest. Over the years GOSL has received
considerable financial support for the Mahaweli Development Program from all
major donors, including IDA. In addition to the Mahaweli schemes, MASL
manages one other major irrigation project.
1.08      The Irrigation Management Division (IMD) of the Ministry of Lands,
Irrigation, and Mahaweli Development (MLIMD) since 1984 has been responsible
for managing about 35 major irrigation schemes, each exceeding 800 ha. IMD
launched a Program for Integrated Management of Major Irrigation Schemes
(INMAS), designed as an interdisciplinary approach to increase agricultural
productivity. The program is administered through national, district, and
project level committees and farmer organizations (FO). IMD operates in the
schemes through project managers who coordinate the functions of all line
agencies. Budgets for O&M are allocated and controlled by IMD headquarters in
Colombo.   The ID handles all technical matters related to rehabilitation and
O&M of major IMD-managed schemes. IMD is the implementing agency for the
Major Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (MIRP, Cr. 1537-CE) financed by IDA,
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and the Swiss Development
Cooperation (SDC), and the Irrigation Systems Management Project financed by
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).
1.09      The Department of Agrarian Services (DAS) is since 1957 responsible
for a wide range of activities in the agricultural sector, including technical
and institutional advisory services for minor irrigation schemes. DAS
operates through a network of agrarian services centers (ASC). Agricultural
planning teams (APT) are functioning at the ASCs to support minor irrigation
schemes. The APTs consist of a divisional officer. a technical officer and an
agricultural instructor, supported by district-level specialists in these
fields. The APTs advise farmers on scheme improvements, better water
management and cropping practices, and formation of FOs. DAS allocates and
controls a GOSL-financed budget for repair works in minor schemes (Rs 43.0
million in 1991). DAS also implemented a scheme modernization program under
the IDA-financed VIRP (Cr. 1.160-CE).
1.10      In accordance with the 13th Amendment of the Constitution, the
provincial councils recently took over the responsibility from the central
GOSL agencies for providing services (construction, OEM of major schemes,
technical advice) in all irrigation schemes located on provincial rivers.
Following a decision by the Minister of MLIMD, the provincial councils also
assumed responsibility for ail schemes under 400 ha which are located on
interprovincial rivers. Since 1990 the provincial councils have
responsibility for all minor schemes and about 40S of the area under
medium/major schemes in seven provinces. Transfer arrangements in the
Northern and Eastern Provinces have not been completed due to the civil
conflict in the area. During 1990 the seven provinces organized themselves to



- 4 -
execute their new responsibilities. Four provinces established a major
engineering and construction agency with separate wings for irrigation, ronds,
and buildings. The remaining thras provinces established independent
departments for these three types of work. Some 1,725 staff, including about
90 engineets, were transferred from the central ID to the new provincial
irrigation units. A decision by GOSL to also transfer DAS field staff to the
provincial administrations was reversed in early 1991. GOSL funds for O&M of
provincial medium/major schemes are now being transferred directly from the
center to the provinces. Similarly, in 1990 funds for repair of minor schemes
were also transferred from the center to the provinces.  However, in 1991 the
GOSL budget for minor schemes has again been brought under the control of DAS.
Overall, relations between the central government and the provincial councils
have not stabilized as yet and, no doubt, further administrative changes will
be introduced over the next few years. At preaent, the technical and
institutional capability of the new provincial administrations remains an area
of concern.
1.11      Options for streamlining central and provincial government cervices
(including for the irrigation sector) are being explored under several
studies. Supported by IDA, GOSL has commissioned studies of all central
government departments and provincial administrations. Draft reports by
consultants were circulated in late 1990 and were reviewed by the concerned
departments ar,d provinces at the time of appraisal. The ID will probably be
restructured in order to achieve a better organizational balance between its
two main tasks -- construction of new systems and management of existing
schemes. Proposals for reorganizing DAS are based on the vision that it will
act as GOSL's principal agency for providing institutional support to farmer
organizations. The provincial administrations, including their engineering
services, will probably be organized along more rational and uniform lines
across provinces. Ways need to be found to attract sufficient numbers of
qualified, experienced and motivated staff to the provincial administrations.
In the meantime, the provinces will h-ve to rely on central government
departments (supported by consultants, where necessary) to undertake tasks for
which their implementing capacity is still inadequate. Future managemeP. of
the irrigation sector is the focus of separate studies currently being
conducted under the Irrigation Management Policy Support Activity project
(IMPSA), financed by USAID. The studies cover a broad range of topics,
including the future role and organization of public institutions for the
irrigation sector at both the central and provincial levels. A draft working
paper, circulated in December 1990, correctly recommends that the evolution of
a single agency for irrigation management should be the long-term goal for the
country. The studies are scheduled to be completed by the end of 1991 (see
also para 4.08).



- 5
Performance of Existine Schemes
1.12      The performance of existing schemes has been less than expected,
mainly due to inadequate allocation, or sub-optimal use, of resources by
government agencies and the beneficiaries of the schemes. Maintenance is not
done regularly, causing deterioration of facilities, and scarce water is often
wasted, resulting in loss of production. As a rule, standards of O&M in minor
schemes depend on the farmers' efforts. Farmers usually clean the canals at
regular intervals and agree among themselves on the cultivation schedules.
However, they rarely maintain or repair headworks, and water distribution
practices often result in wastage at the heads of the canals and shortages at
the tail ends. Over the years DAS has assisted the farmers with these tasks
using its small budget and by providing advisory services but this assistance
has been limited primarily to schemes where rehabilitation or repair works
were undertaken under externally financed projects such as VIRP and the IRDPs.
As a result, irrigation facilities in most of the 22,000 minor schemes have
been allowed to deteriorate to the point where full-fledged rehabilitation
works now are necessary. Recent estimates compiled by DAS field staff
indicate that some 10,000 minor schemes covering about 110,000 ha require
rehabilitation works, at an estimated cost of about Rs 2.2 billion (US$55.0
million).
1.13      The ID, and now also the provincial irrigation units, are
responsible for O&M of medium and major schemes.  However, funds allocated in
the Revenue Budget for this purpose (Rs 84 million in 1990) meet less than
half of estimated requirements, and most of the funds are spent on staff and
other overhead costs.  Since 1984 farmers in major schemes are legally
obligated to pay water charges covering the O&M costs of their schemes.
During 1985 recoveries reached about 5OX of the amounts due, but during 1989
payments ceased almost completely. The disturbed conditions in much of the
country, initial weaknesses in the legal provisions (since corrected), and
alleged inability of the farmers to pay (due to low incomes and low yields or
drought-related crop failures) are the most frequently cited reasons for the
poor collection performance. Although several rehabilitation projects have
been taken up during the last decade, recent es-.imates by ID indicate that
still some 190 medium/major schemes covering about 50,000 ha require
rehabilitation works, at an estimated cost of about Rs 1.1 billion (US$27.5
million).
New Ap^roaches
1.14      Several attempts have been made in recent years to address the
unsatisfactory O&M situation.  IMD, through its INMAS program, has made major
efforts to involve farmers in the management ani O&M of their schemes.
Institutional oLganizers (IO) have been employed to encourage the formation of
farmer organizations (FO) and project committees for scheme management. In
several schemes the maintenance of field and distributory canals has been
transferred to the project committees. The activit4is of IND have been most
successful when combined with rehabilitation and system improvement works in
externally financed projects such as MIRP. Experience also indicates that
close involvement of the beneficiaries in the planning and implementation of
rehabilitation and improvement works is an important requirement for success.



- 6 -
DAS has made significant efforts to improve operatLonal practLces in minor
schemes through its agricultural planning team (APT) approach. DAS also has,
on a pilot basis, successfully employed IOs in several schemes in Anuradhapura
District. Much emphasls has been given under VIRP to tralning of APTs for
their tasks. As ln the case of the INMAS program, the APT approach has been
most successful when combined wlth rehabilltation or modernization works. A
few non-goverrmental organizations also have made serious efforts to improve
maintenance and management practices in existing irrigation schemes. The Sri
Lanka Field Office of the International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI)
is conducting field research in a number of schemes in order to identify and
disseminate successful experiences in this important area.
1.15      The encouraging results of programs to involve farmers in the
management of their schemes and the failure to make headway in the collection
of water charges for major irrigation projects prompted GOSL ln 1988 to adopt
a new management policy for the irrigation sector. The new policy is designed
to increase the participation and responsibilities of the farmers and reduce
the role of the public sector. Where possible, schemes are to be fully
managed by the farmers themselves. This already is the common practice in
most minor and some medium schemes. Major schemes in the future are to be
managed jointly by the farmers and government agencies. This concept already
is being applied in several major schemes where O&M of the distributory canals
has been taken over by FOs and project committees. In the long term, the role
of the public sector would be limited to providing technical and institutional
advice to FOs, and O&M of major facilities such as headworks and main canals.
Eventually, the FOs would assume the full O&M cost of the schemes, beginning
with the parts of the systems managed by them, and the farmer-members of the
FOs would contribute their fair share in the form of labor and/or cash
payments. Modalities for implementing these concepts are being studied in
several projects, including the ongoing IMPSA project referred to in para
1.11. By the end of 1991 the IMPSA project is expected to result in detailed
policy statements and draft legislation to implement GOSL's new policy
direction.
1.16      Meanwhile, recent positive experience has demonstrated the need to
establish more formal FOs. Past efforts have been directed at informal groups
of farmers or influential farmer leaders. However, as farmers take on more
responsiiility for managing their irrigation schemes, the need for formal
organizations with well-defined rights and obligations will grow as well.
These changes apply not only to the distribution of water and maintenance of
schemes, but also to other vital functions such as the supply of inputs,
provision of credit, and marketing of produce.  Anticipating these needs, GOSL
has taken steps to amend existing legislation.  The Agrarian Services Act of
1979 was amended in February 1991, to empower DAS to legally register and
recognize the FOs in irrigation schemes and elsewhere. The Irrigation
Ordinance of 1968 also is being amended to: (a) empower the FOs to collect
irrigation charges after they have taken over O&M responsibilities for the
field and distributory canals; and (b) specify the legal powers of the
management committees for major irrigation projects.



-7-
Summary of Government Strategy
1.17      Agricultural performance, particularly the production of paddy and
other food crops, depends heavily on irrigation. Much of this is in older
schemes of which many are not functioning properly due to deterioration of
facilities leading to loss of production. Priority has been given during the
last four decades to a rapid expansion of the country's irrigation systems,
but emphasis is now shifting towards rehabilitation, improved maintenance, and
more efficient use of capacity in existing schemes. GOSL, assisted by the
donor community, already has begun to correct the balance between the
construction of new projects and rehabilitation and O&M of existing schemes.
The Mahaweli Development Program is winding down and several rehabilitation
projects have been taken up over the last ten years, including the IDA-
financed VIRP ard MIRP. However, there stW'l exists a large need for
rehabilitation works (paras 1.12 and L.13 . udgetary constraints and
continuing uncertainty over the prospects       2eace and development in the
northeast reinforce the need to preserve       make optimal use of existing
irrigation infrastructure in the short a.3- !  - i m term.  Encouraging the
farmers to assume full responsibility for UP' '. their schemes is a key
element of this strategy. IDA endorses this strategy.
C. Project Background
ExDerience under Earlier Rehabilitation Proiects
1.18      The National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (NIRP) was first
proposed in 1987 as a way to continue rehabilitation and modernization of
minor schemes started under VIRP. Implementation of VIRP had been adversely
affected from 1985 by security problems in seven north-eastern districts and
in 1986 all works in the seven districts were suspended. Implementation
continued after 1986 in eleven districts but disturbances in many other parts
of the country caused further work interruptions in 1988 and 1989. The IDA
Credit was extended four times (from end 1986 to end 1990). By the end of
1990 the ID had rehabilitated about 1,075 schemes covering about 30,500 ha
(95% of the appraisal estimate), and DAS had modernized about 600 schemes
covering about 13,500 ha (120% of appraisal estimate). Some 90 schemes
covering about 2,600 ha were at various stages of completion at the end of
1990. All remaining works are scheduled to be fully completed in the course
of 1991, using retroactive financing under NIRP.
1.19      A study team of the faculty of Agriculture from Peradeniya
University has conducted a series of benchmark and evaluation studies in a
sample of 144 VIRP schemes in six districts. Results from the baseline study
and one follow-up survey are available for the entire sample but a second
follow-up survey was conducted in only part of the sample schemes due to the
1988-89 disturbances. An in-depth study of 14 schemes (all included in the
original sample) was conducted by the Peradeniya University team from 1988
through 1990. A third survey covering about 150 schemes (of which 30 are to
be covered in-depth) is scheduled to start shortly with assistance and
supervision from IIMI. Data available at this time on the impact of VIRP are
fragmentary and have to be treated with caution. Nevertheless, several
important conclusions are emerging. First, most schemes appear to have been



successful, but the few that failed completely did so either because farmer
interest had not been properly ascertained in advance or because the executed
works did not respond to farmer requirements. Second, farmers often
complained about the poor quality of rehabilitation works. Third, cropping
intensity during the Yala season increased substantially in some of the
schemes after rehabilitation and modernization but changed little in most.
Fourth, in most of the sample schemes farmers took full control over the
distribution of water after rehabilitation.
1.20      During preparation and appraisal of VIRP, and also of the earlier
Tank Irrigation Modernization Project (TIMP, Cr. 666-CE, see Project
Completion Report - No. 5986 of December 23, 1985) and the subsequent MIRP, it
had been assumed that crop production would increase substantially as a result
of the rehabilitation and improvement works. Available evidence suggests that
these expectations have not materialized as only modest increases in cropping
intensities and/or yields have been recorded in most of the schemes covered by
the three projects. It appears that stabilization of existing production has
been the main source of benefits. Increases in production over pre-project
levels due to: (a) repair of deteriorated facilities which already had caused
loss of production; and (b) improvement and/or modernization of facilities,
together with the introduction of improved water management practices,
contributed to a lesser extent to the projects' benefits.
1.21      The Project Completion Report for TIMP stressed the need for: (a)
carrying out surveys and detailed designs well in advance to avoid
implementation delays; (b) allowing sufficient time for construction in view
of the limited time canals can be closed; (c) preventing indiscriminate land
and water use in the catchment area as it reduces inflow to the tanks and
increases erosion; and (d) building confidence among the farmers that water
will arrive on time and will be distributed equitably. Relevant findings and
lessons of the earlier projects have been taken into account in the design of
the NIRP.
Proiect Preparation
1.22      Early on in preparing the NIRP it was agreed to expand its scope to
include rehabilitation works in medium and major schemes. The coverage of
other rehabilitation projects (either ongoing or proposed) was considered
insufficient to meet the requirements, particularly for medium-sized schemes.
In order to avoid concentrating available funds in only a few major schemes,
and to facilitate preparation and approval of rehabilitation proposals during
project implementation, it was further agreed to limit the coverage of NIRP to
schemes costing US$1.0 million or less. The project has been prepared during
1989-90 by a Project Preparation Cell comprised of ID and DAS staff, assisted
by consultants. Full feasibility studies have been prepared for a first group
of 17 representative schemes (11 minor and 6 medium/major), of which 6 schemes
(4 minor and 2 medium/major) were selected for in-depth appraisal.



- 9 -
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.01      GOSL's current strategy for the irrigation subsector emphasizes
completing ongoing projects, and preserving and improving the performance of
existing schemes in order to stabilize and increase the production of paddy
and other food crops (para 1.17). IDA supports this strategy and has already
financed rehabilitation and improvement of minor schemes under VIRP (Cr. 1160-
CE), closed in December 1990, and that of major schemes under the ongoing MIRP
(Cr. 1537-CE). Although several other donors also have financed such works,
minor schemes covering at least 45Z of the command area under such schemes and
medium/major schemes for about 15Z of their command area still require
rehabilitation. The proposed project is a national program which would
support GOSL's strategy, build on experience gained under VIRP and similar
recent projects, and assist provincial administrations in executing their new
responsibilities. IDA support is justified as it would: (a) improve the
capacity and efficiency of public irrigation services at the center and in the
provinces; and (b) promote increased participation in system management by
farmer organizations (FO).
B. Prolect Obiectives
2.02      The project's main objectives are to stabilize and increase
agricultural production and incomes and to raise the standards of livin.;
through rehabilitation and improved O&M of existing irrigation schemes.
Subsidiary objectives include: (a) upgrading the skills of farmers and staff
of the implementing agencies; and (b) creating viable FOs for managing the
rehabilitation schemes.
C. Project Components
2.03      The project includes the following components:
(a) rehabilitation and improvement of about 1,000 minor and 60
medium/major irrigation schemes covering about 37,500 ha;
(b) establishment of FOs and introduction of improved O&M practices in
all rehabilitation schemes;
(c) training of farmers and staff of the implementing agencies;
(d)  environmental protection studies and works;
(e) establishment of three new support units in ID and execution of
socio-economic and hydrological studies;
(f) consultant services for project planning, implementation, and impact
assessment; and



- 10 -
(g) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
D. Detailed Features
Rehabilitation and Improvement Works (Base Cost US$21.4 million)
2.04      The project would rehabilitate about 1,000 minor schemes covering
some 25,000 ha and about 60 medium/major schemes covering about 12,500 ha
throughout the country. The project would also complete ongoing
rehabilitation works in about 90 minor schemes started under VIRP (para 1.18).
The project would cover about 252 of the estimated rehabilitation
requirements. However, in view of the unsatisfactory maintenance of existing
schemes, requirements for such works are likely to increase in the near
future. Other donors, including the European Economic Community (EEC) and the
Asian Development Bank (ADB), have also agreed, or are planning, to finance
rehabilitation works in some provinces.
2.05      In order to qualify for financing under the project, schemes would
have to meet selection criteria that emphasize technical and economic
viability, and ensure the involvement of beneficiaries (Annex 1). FOs would
be established for all schemes at the rehabilitation planning stage. They
would be required to contribute at least 102 of the construction cost and
maintain the schemes at their cost in accordance with an agreed plan. A draft
model contract between GOSL and the FOs. reflecting the obligations of both
parties, was reviewed during negotiations. Types and quantities of works
would be determined in close consultation between the implementing agencies
and the FOs and would be kept at the minimum necessary to ensure the effective
operation of the schemes. For minor schemes the cost of rehabilitation and
improvement would not exceed the equivalent of US$ 750 per ha and for
medium/major schemes the economic rate of return would be at least 152.
During negotiations agreements were obtained from GOSL that: (a) schemes would
be selected in accordance with the criteria specified in Annex 1; and (b) a
plan for periodic safety inspections of dams constructed or rehabilitated
under the project would be sent to IDA for review by December 31, 1992.
2.06      Rehabilitation schemes would be selected on a year-to-year basis as
implementation proceeds. Existing operational schemes throughout the country
would qualify for consideration under the project. Tentative lists of
identified schemes are given in Annex 1. Actual selection of schemes would
depend on factors such as: (a) overall requirements for rehabilitation by
province and district; (b) financing available from other donors; and (c)
implementation capacity. The estimates include an indicative provision for
the Northern and Eastern Provinces, representing about 1O0 of total investment
cost, in order to facilitate the early start-up of rehabilitation works in the
two provinces once security is restored. Completion of on-site appraisal of
selected schemes to the satisfaction of IDA and review of implementation
arrangements by IDA would be a condition of disbursement against expenditures
in the Northern and Eastern Provinces.



- 11 -
Formation of Farmer Organizations and Improved Operation and Maintenance (Base
Cost US$1.9 million)
2.07      The project would enable farmers to maximize their returns from the
rehabilitated schemes and assume responsibility for O&M of scheme facilities.
The project would therefore support: (a) formation of FOs and employment of
institutional organizers (IO); (b) preparation and introduction of improved
scheme maintenance and water distribution plans; (c) demonstration of improved
cropping practices; and (d) logistical support to staff of the implementing
agencies. The process of organizing farmers into FOs would start at the
turn-out level. Most minor schemes would be served by a single FO but for
medium/major schemes two- or three-tier organizations would be formed. Office
bearers would be elected, or selected by consensus, and working committees
formed to undertake specific tasks. Legal recognition would be obtained from
the Commissioner of Agrarian Services in accordance with the Agrarian Services
Act, as amended in 1991. The FOs would reach binding agreements with the
implementing agencies, specifying mutual responsibilities for rehabilitation
works and O&M activities. The project would provide the FOs with office space
and basic furniture.
2.08      Experience gained over recent years has demonstrated the need for
special assistance to involve farmers in the management of their schemes. The
prcject would therefore support temporary employment of IOs for all
rehabilitation schemes. The IOs would: (a) assess the communities' needs and
resources; (b) plan and implement strategies for organizing the farmers; and
(c) facilitate and enhance the FOs' capabilities to plan and manage all
scheme-related activities. Throughout the process the IOs would closely
coordinate their activities with staff of the technical agencies. One 10
would serve two adjacent minor schemes for about two years. For medium/major
schemes one IO would be employed for about 300 families during the first two
years, and one for about 1,000 families during the third and the fourth year.
Twenty four IOs have already been posted in the first group of 17 schemes for
which feasibility studies were completed during the preparation of the
project.
2.09      Preparation of a plan of operation would be an integral part of the
feasibility planning for all schemes. The plans would comprise detailed
schedules for maintenance and operation of the schemes. The maintenance
schedule would specify the preventive maintenance works to be executed
continuously, and the periodic maintenance works to be undertaken between
cropping seasons. The operational schedule would include an issue tree
describing the distributory system, and the rotational systems to be adopted
for each of the crop seasons in order to optimize the use of water, especially
during periods of drought. The plans of operation would also specify the
composition and responsibilities of project level farmer orgc'dizations and
management committees for all O&M activities from the headworks down to the
field level. Farmers would be consulted during preconstruction meetings and
their views would be fully reflected in the plans. The IOs and the
agricultural planning teams (APT) would participate in the preparation of the
plaas of operation and advise the FOs during implementation.



- 12 -
2.10      The project would provide support in selected rehabilitation schemes
(about 10X of all schemes) for a special program of agricultural extension
activities which meets specific requirements expressed by the farmers. The
special program would supplement the Department of Agriculture's country-wide
extension services, which would be strengthened under the proposed Integrated
Agricultural Support Services Project. The special program would emphasize
activities for demonstrating the cultivation of high-value field crops and
improving home gardening. Agricultural instructors would prepare and execute
the special programs in close cooperation with the FOs. Project support would
be used for procurement of inputs and payment of travel allowances to the
agricultural instructors.
2.11      The project would provide logistical support to district and
divisional level staff of the provincial support agencies, including the
members of the APTr and work supervisors of ID. Further details on the
formation of FOs and improved O&M are given in Annex 2.
Training (Base Cost US$1.9 million)
2.12       The project would: (a) upgrade the skills of existing staff of the
implementing agencies; (b) train new IOs; (c) train leaders and members of the
FOs; (d) provide technical assistance to enhance project management's capacity
to manage the training program; and (e) increase the capacity of existing
training centers. The training program would provide staff with limited
overseas training opportunities, including three masters level degrees and 6-
12 week short courses for about 100 staff at training institutions in
Southeast Asian countries. The in-country staff training program would
include short courses at selected in-service training institutes, on-the-job
training, and study visits. Selection and training of about 500 IOs would be
a key element of the training program. The project would also provide
preconstruction, construction, O&M, and refresher training for over 5,000
elected officials of the FOs and arrange for multiple one-day training
sessions for about 37,500 farmers. Designated trainers would participate in
short training-of-trainers courses. Special emphasis would be given to
raising the level of environmental awareness of both project staff and
farmers. All trainers would be adequately prepared to cover environmental
issues. Assistance would also be provided for expansion and upgrading of four
in-service training institutes and for procurement of teaching equipment and
supplies. Further details on the training component are given in Annex 3.
Environmental Protection (Base Cost US$0.7 million)
2.13      The project would minimize environmentally harmful activities and,
where feasible, alleviate existing problems. For all selected rehabilitation
schemes the environmental impact of the proposed works would be reviewed and
remedies against any adverse consequences prepared, as specified in the terms
of reference for the feasibility studies. In addition to environmental
awareness training of project staff and farmers (para 2.12), the project would
support the following activities: (a) minimizing damage to the ecosystem
during construction; (b) alleviating existing environmental problems; and (c)
studying environmental problems at the watershed level.



_ 13 -
2.14      Excavations aiLd destruction of vegetation are potentially harmful
activities during construction. Contract specifications would reflect
existing GOSL regulations in this regard and include clauses obliging
contractors to: (a) consult with beneficiaries on the selection of borrow
pits; (b) strip and replace the topsoil and level off the borrow pits under a
gradient which permits unimpeded drainage; and (c) strip, and after
resectioning, replace the topsoil on the tank embankments before turfing. In
addition, the project would provide for planting of trees in borrow areas and
canal reservatiorxs. Strict superv-4'nn by proiect staff and consultants would
ensure that the specifications mentioned above are adhered to. The
beneficiaries would be encouraged to monitor implementation of the civil
works.
2.15      Erosion and drainage problems at the reservoir and headworks of tank
schemes would be corrected during rehabilitation. Periodic maintenance by the
Fos after rehabilitation would minimize the risk of recurrence. Siltation of
reservoirs and canals due to erosion in the catchment areas is a potential
threat to irrigation and irrigation management. However, reliable information
on this issue is not available in Sri Lanka. The project would therefore
provide for a monitoring program for silt build-up in a selected sample of 50
minor and 5 medium/major tank schemes. The program would be managed by the
Research Management Unit to be established at ID (para 2.17).   Fragmentation
of holdings and reduction of plot sizes due to population pressure is a
serious issue which interferes with the adoption of sound water management
practices. The project would provide for a study in three minor schemes in
Anuradhapura District to examine the technical possibility of, and farmers'
interest in, land consolidation, or other ways to overcome this problem. If
successful, the study would be followed by a pilot land consolidation or land
pooling project. This study would also be managed by ID's new Research
Management Unit.
2.16      Minor tank schemes in the dry zone are typically part of a larger
system, called a cascade, and are hydrologically intbrdependent. Feasibility
studies would take into account all schemes which are part of a cascade to
ensure that the planning and design of rehabilitation works recog:,,_s their
interdependence. Specific measures would be proposed and implemented to
optimize the performance of individual schemes. Further details on
environmental protection are given in Annex 4.
Institutional Support for Irrigation Department and Studies (Base Cost US$3.0
million)
2.17      Irrigation Research Management Unit.  Over the years it has become
apparent that actual benefits achieved in irrigation projects are not
commensurate with the investments made, mainly due to: (a) poor O&M of the
schemes; (b) use of questionable hydrological planning parameters for
determining available water resources; and (c) mono cropping of paddy in both
cultivation seasons. In order to coordinate research on these issues, the
project would support the establishment of an Irrigation Research Management
Unit in ID.  Technical assistance for the Unit would be provided by the Sri
Lanka Field Operations Unit of IMII. The Research Management Unit would
identify research needs, carry out or contract for research, evaluate the



- 14 -
findings, and disseminate the results. Support under the project would cover
a four-year period (1992-95) and would include internationally and locally
recruited expertise, equipment, vehicles, and research activities.
2.18      Dam Safety Unit.  Following the recent failure of the dam at the
Kantalai scheme, GOSL has commissioned a comprehensive study by consultants to
review the effectiveness of the existing dam safety program and to prepare
recommendations for a workable and effective system. The project would
support the establishmert of a Dam Safety Unit within ID by providing
equipment, vehicles, tra,ning, advice by experts, and fund to cover the
operating cost of the Unit.
2.19      Quality Control Unit.  Ineffective supervision and inadequate
testing of construction materials frequently result in substandard quality of
works in irrigation projects in Sri Lanka and elsewhere. The project would
enhance the capacity of ID's existing Quality Control Unit and would support
the establishment of nine regional field laboratories. The facilities would
serve the ID ranges and the provincial irrigation units. The project would
provide for equipment, vehirles, the renovation of existing buildings or
construction of new ones, and the cost of operating the Unit.
2.20      Hydrological and Water Management Study.  Plans to optimize the use
of available water resources through better water management must be based on
reliable estimates of such resources. VIRP supported a physical resource
evaluation of a sample of tank schemes in the dry zone which was conducted by
the Land and Water Use Divisior. of the Department of Agriculture. The final
report will be submitted shortly and the findings would be used to improve
water management planning under NIRP. The project would support, over five
years (1991-95), a similar study in a sample of three diversion schemes in the
intermediate and wet zones. The three schemes would also be included in the
sample for the socio-economic study (para 2.21).
2.21      Socio-economic Study.  The project would support a socio-economic
study of a sample of ten rehabilitation schemes located in the Central and
North-West provinces. The objective of the study would be in-depth monitoring
and analysis of changes due to the project. In addition to collecting general
information on scheme beneficiaries, physical facilities, and supporting
services, the team would study changes in farm production and incomes,
irrigation practices, and the effectiveness of institutional arrangements for
rehabilitation and O&M in the sample schemes. Research assistants would be
posted in the schemes to collect data for the duration of the study (1992-97).
Further details on institutional support for ID and related studies are given
in Annex 5.
Technical Assistance for Proiect Planning, Implementation and Impact
Assessment (Base Cost US$3.7 million)
2.22      In addition to capacity building technical assistance for training
and irrigation research management (paras 2.12 and 2.17, respectively), the
project would provide consulting services to support: (a) effective planning
and implementation of rehabilitation and improvement works, and introduction
of improved O&M practices in all rehabilitated schemes; and (b) execution of



- 15 -
impact assessment studies in a representative sample of schemes. The
expertise required would be provided under two separate contracts. The scope
of consulting services for project planning and implementation would includes
(a) screening of all schemes proposed for rehabilitation; (b) preparation of
feasibility studies for medium/major schemes, and review of the feasibility
studies for minor schemes prepared by the implementing agencies; (c)
construction monitoring and quality control for all schemes; (d) technical
support for improved O&M, and institutional support to the FOs; and (e)
management support for the Central Management Cell (CMC) to be established at
ID (para 4.04). Consulting requirements have been estimated at 50 staff
months of internationally recruited specialists, 1,020 staff months of locally
recruited professional staff, and 1,080 staff months of locally recruited mid-
level staff. During negotiations agreement was obtained from GOSL that
consultants for project planning and implementation would be appointed by
December 31, 1991 under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
2.23      One benchmark and two evaluation studies would be conducted in a
sample of 30 minor and 15 medium/major schemes in order to assess the
project's impact and to draw lessons for similar future operations. The
benchmark studies would be conducted before rehabilitation. The two
evaluation studies would be conducted about one year and three or four years,
respectively, after completion of the works. The studies would cover the
engineering, agricultural, environmental, socio-economic, and institutional
aspects of the sample schemes, and would be conducted by a local research
institute or a firm of consultants. Staff requirements are estimated at 190
staff months for senior professional staff and 168 staff months for junior
professional staff. Further details on technical assistance for project
planning and implementation, and impact assessment studies are given in Annex
6.
Procurement of Vehicles and Equipment (Base Cost US$3.3 million)
2.24      The project would provide 75 vehicles, 87 motorcycles, 300 bicycles,
and various other types of equipment, as specified in Annex 10, Schedule 2.
Contractors would provide their own construction equipment.



- 16 -
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost
3.01      The total project cost is estimated at Rs 2,009 million (US$49.8
million equivalent), with a foreign exchange component of US$8.6 million or
172 of total cost (Table 3.1 and Annex 8). The cost estimates have been based
on early 1991 prices. Estimates of quantities for the rehabilitation and
improvement works are based on the feasibility studies for the first group of
17 schemes. The project cost includes Rs 92 million (US$2.3 million
equivalent) in taxes and duties. Physical contingencies for civil works have
been estimated at 5Z. Price contingencies and foreign exchange rates have
been estimated on the basis of expected rates of local and foreign inflation
as follows: local price contingencies: 11.52 for 1991, 7.7Z for 1992, 6.0 for
1993-94, 5.0 for 1995, and 3.4Z for 1996-97; and foreign price contingencies:
3.4% for all years.
Table 3.1: Proiect Cost Estimates
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
-----Rs million-        ----US$ million ------      Z
Rehabilitation and
Improvement Works:
Surveys and
Investigations         14.5      -       14.5    0.4      -       0.4      -
Civil Works            639.1   120.4    759.5   15.8    3.0    18.8        17
Engineering and
Administration         83.3      -       89.3    2.2      -       2.2      -
Subtotal                742.9   120.4    863.3   18.4    3.0    21.4        15
Farmer Organizations      78.0      0.5     78.5    1.9      -       1.9      -
Training                  30.8    46.8      77.6    0.8    1.2       2.0     60
Environmental
Protection               28.0      -       28.0    0.7      -       0.7      -
Institutional Support
and Studies              84.9    36.8    121.7    2.1    0.9        3.0     36
Technical Assistance    125.7    25.0    150.7    3.1    0.6         3.7     17
Vehicles and Equipment   65.9    69.5    135.4    1.6    1.7         3.3     50
Base Cost             1,156.2   299.0  1,455.2   28.6    7.4    36.0        21
Physical
Contingencies            35.9      5.8     41.7    0.9    0.2       1.1     15
Price
Contingencies           472.1    40.5    512.6   11.7    1.0    12.7         8
Total Cost            1,664.2   345.3  2,009.5   41.2    8.6    49.8        17



- 17 -
B. Project Financts
3.02      The project would be financed by IDA, EEC and GOSL.  The IDA Credit
of SDR 21.9 million (Us$29.6 million equivalent) would be on standard IDA
terms with a maturity of 40 years and would cover about 62Z of the total
project cost, excluding taxes and duties. IDA would finance the cost of
rehabilitation and improvement works, formation of farmer organizations,
introduction of improved O&M practices, agricultural demonstrations,
procurement of a portion of vehicles and equipment, and VIRP carry-over works
and studies. In order to facilitate the early start-up of the project and to
complete the VIRP carry-over works and studies, expenditures of up to US$1.2
million incurred after December 31, 1990, would be considered for retroactive
financing. An EEC grant of ECU 3.34 million (US$4.0 million equivalent) would
cover about 8Z of project cost, excluding taxes and duties. EEC would finance
the foreign cost of training, institutional support for ID, and technical
assistance for project planning and implementation. Signing of the
cofinancing agreement between GOSL and EEC would be a condition of
effectiveness for the IDA Credit. GOSL would finance the rema'ning project
cost, i.e. US$16.2 million. This includes US$9.1 million equivalent of EEC
Food-aid counterpart funds to finance the local cost of training,
environmental protection works, institutional support for ID, studies, and
technical assistance. It also includes US$2.7 million equivalent to be
contributed in labor, or other acceptable form, by the beneficiaries of the
rehabilitation and improvement works. All such works to be financed under the
project would be conditional upon a firm commitment by the farmer
organizations to contribute at least 102 of the cost of the works (paras 2.05
and 2.07 and Annex 1, para 1). The balance of GOSL's contribution, including
US$2.3 million in taxes and duties, would be made available through annual
budget appropriations in conformance with the project implementation schedule.
Table 3.2 summarizes the project financing plan. Further details are given in
Annex 9.
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
IDA      EEC     GOSL      Total
Surveys and Investigations               0.5       -         -        0.5
Civil Works                             23.5       -        3.9      27.4
Engineering and Administration           1.7       -        1.7       3.4
Farmer Organizations                     2.7       -         -        2.7
Training                                  -       1.3       1.0       2.3
Environmental Protection                  -        -        1.0       1.0
Institutional Support and Studies        0.1      1.0       2.7       3.8
Technical Assistance                      -       0.7       4.4       5.1
Vehicles and Equipment                   1.1      1.0       1.5       3.6
Total Financing Required            29.6       4.0     16.2       49.8



- 18 -
C. Rhocurmemnt
3.03      Civil Works (US$26.7 million, excluding taxes and duties) are
relatively small, labor-intensive, and geographically dispersed in areas with
difficult access. These works are not expected to attract international
bidding and would therefore be carried out, either under contract through
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA, or on force
account by the FOs at the engineer's estimated cost. Current GOSL regulations
permit registered FOs to carry out small civil works contracts outside normal
tender procedures, provided that: (a) the value of each contract does not
exceed Rs 250,000 (US$6,250); (b) the total value of all contracts held by the
FO at any one time does not exceed Rs 750,000 (US$18,750); (c) the Ministry
concerned is satisfied that the FO has the capacity to carry out the works;
and (d) the works are located within the scheme managed by the FO. It is
estimated that about 20% of the civil works, particularly those involving
excavation works, would be offered to the FOs. The aggregate value of civil
works to be carried out on force account would not exceed US$5.5 million.
Vehicles and Equipment (US$1.1 million) would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) or prudent shopping. Contracts
costing US$20,000 or more each would be procured through ICB procedures in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Local suppliers competing under ICB would be
granted a price preference of 15% of the CIF price of the goods or the customs
duties, whichever is less. Small off-the-shelf items costing less than
US$20,000 each, would be procured on the basis of quotations from at least
three independent suppliers in accordance with GOSL procedures which are
acceptable to IDA. Such purchases would not exceed the equivalent of
US$500,000 in the aggregate. Surveys and Investigations (US$0.5 million)
would be carried out by ID on force account or under contract through LCB.
Consultants' Services for studies (US$0.1 million) would be contracted in
accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants.
3.04      Bid documents for all civil works contracts over US$150,000 and all
contracts for vehicles and equipment over US$100,000 would be submitted to IDA
for prior review, and IDA's concurrence would be sought before the contracts
are awarded. This procedure would apply to about 5% of the estimated total
cost of civil works and about 70% of the estimated cost of vehicles and
equipment to be procured through ICB. For other contracts GOSL would use
standard bidding documents approved by IDA. Goods and services to be rinanced
by EEC (para 3.02) would be procured in accordance with EEC's own procedures.
The methods of procurement for all project components are given in Table 3.3.



- 19 o
Table 3.3: Methods of Procurement /a
(USS million)
Project Element                         ICB    LCB     Other    N.A b/    Total
Surveys and Investigations               -     0.2      0.3        -        0.5
(0.2)    (0.3)               (0.5)
Civil Works                              -    21.9       5.5       -       27.4
(18.8)    (4.7)              (23.5)
Engineering an.d Administration          -      -         -       3.4       3.4
(1.7)     (1.7)
Farmer Organizations                     -      -        -        2.7       2.7
(2.7)     (2.7)
Training c/                              -      -        -        2.3       2.3
Environmental Protection c/              -      -         -       1.0       1.0
Institutional Support and Studies d/   -        -       0.1       3.7       3.8
(0.1)               (0.1)
Technical Assistance c/                  -      -        -        5.1       5.1
Vehicles and Equipment e/              2.6      -       1.0        -        3.6
(0.8)            (0.3)               (1.1)
Total                                  2.6    22.1      6.9      18.2      49.8
(0.8)  (19.0)    (5.4)    (4.4)    (29.6)
a/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA and include
contingencies
b/ Not applicable.
c/ To be financed fully by EEC and EEC Food-aid counterpar.- funds.
d/  To be financed partially by EEC and EEC Food-aid counter:|rt funds.
e/ To be financed partially by EEC.
D. Disbursements
3.05      Disbursements of the IDA Credit would extend over Feven years (1991-
98) and would cover:
(a) 95Z of expenditures on civil works, including construction
materials, but excluding contributions by FOs (para 2.05);
(b) 10OZ of expenditures on surveys and investigations, support of
farmer organizations, and consultants' services;



- 20 -
(c) 50Z of expenditures on engineering and administration; and
(d) 1002 of foreign expenditures if imported, or 100l of local
expenditures if manufactured locally, or 702 of local expenditures
if procured locally, on vehicles and equipment.
3.06      Full documnentation would be sent to IDA in support of withdrawal
applications, except for item (c) above, for works e,lecuted under force
account, and for small local contracts individually costing less than the
equivalent of US$100,000. For these items applications would be supported by
statements of expenditure (SOE) certified by the Project Director and
Accountant of the Central Management Cell. The relevant documentation would
be retained by ID at a central location and should be made available to IDA
representatives on request. This documentation also would be subject to
audit. All documents sent to IDA in support of withdrawal applications for
civil works, including SOEs, would have been checked and certified by the
project consultants.
3.07      GOSL would open and thereafter maintain a Special Account in US
dollars with the Central Bank in Colombo. The authorized allocation for the
Special Account would be US$1.5 million equivalent. This allocation
represents an estimated four months of IDA-financed expenditures. The Special
Account would be replenished through periodic reimbursement, either monthly or
whenever the balance of the authorized allocation falls below 40Z, whichever
occurs first, and would be used exclusively for IDA's share of financing. The
proposed closing date of the IDA Credit is June 30, 1998.
E. Accounts and Audits
3.08      The Central Management Cell at ID would establish and maintain a
separate project account. Funds would be provided in the budget of ID, the
lead agency for the project. Adequate records would be maintained by all
implementing agencies to identify physical progress and financial transactions
relating to the project. Individually identifiable accounts would also be
kept for all expenditures for which withdrawals are made on the basis of SOEs,
and for the flow of funds from the Special Account. A senior accountant
(consultant) would be employed in the Central Management Cell to guide and
supervise staff responsible for keeping the project accounts. The project
accounts, including SOEs and the Special Account, would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Audited accounts, together with
auditors' comments, would be sent to IDA within nine months of the close of
each financial year.  At present the accounts of ID and the other
participating agencies are audited by the Auditor-General's Department. This
arrangement is satisfactory to IDA. An action plan is in place for submission
of audit reports under ongoing projects in the irrigation sector.



- 21 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Schedule
4.01      Feasibility studies for 17 schemes and detailed proposals for the
project's traininig program and improved O&M activities were prepared in 1989-
90. During 1991 ongoing preconstruction activities for the 17 schemes would
be completed, including: (a) topographical surveys; (b) preparation of
detailed engineering documents; (c) selection and training of IOs; (d)
formation of FOs; (e) formalizing agreements with the FOs on their
contribution to the rehabilitation works; (f) preparation of preliminary
proposals for the second group of rehabilitation schemes; and (g) preparation
of designs and contract documents for improvement and expansion of in-service
training centers. VIRP carry-over works would also be completed in 1991.
Construction works for the first group of rehabilitation schemes would start
in 1992 while, at the same time, feasibility studies and other pre-
construction activities for the second group of schemes would commence. The
total project period would be seven years, starting in January 1991 and ending
in December 1997. The implementation schedule is given in Annex 7.
B. Organization and Management
Introduction
4.02      The project would be implemented by ID, DAS, the provincial
councils, and the FOs. A Central Management Cell (CMC), headed by a Project
Director under the Director of Irrigation, has been established in ID. The
CMC would direct all project activities under the guidance and supervision of
a Project Coordination Committee (PCC).
Project Coordination Committee
4.03      The PCC would have overall responsibility for the implementation of
the project. The Secretary of MLIMD would chair the PCC and the Project
Director would function as its Secretary. Permanent members would include the
Director of ID, the Commissioner of DAS, the Director of IMD, and the chief
secretaries of the provincial councils. Representatives of other concerned
departments may be invited to participate in the deliberations of the PCC.
These departments include the Land Commissioner's Department, the Department
of National Planning, the Department of Agriculture, and the Survey
Department. Specific responsibilities of the PCC would include: (a) policy
guidance and decision making; (b) approval of annual work programs and
budgets; (c) periodic review of work progress; and (d) resolution of problems
which may arise during implementation. The PCC would meet at least once every
six months.
Central Management Cell
4.04      The CMC would direct and coordinate all project components and
activities. Its major responsibilities would include:



- 22 -
(a) preparation of annual work plans and budgets;
(b) screening and approval of all rehabilitation proposals to ensure
that selection criteria are being adhered to;
(c) promoting the establishment of viable FOs for all rehabilitation
schemes;
(d) preparation of feasibility studies and designs for medium/major
schemes;
(e) technical review and approval of feasibility studies and designs
prepared by the provincial irrigation units;
(f) monitoring of construction progress and quality for all schemes;
(g) preparation and monitoring of project-related training programs;
Ch) guiding and monitoring of improved O&M activities;
(i) coordination and monitoring of studies by other agencies;
Cj) procurement of vehicles and equipment;
Ck) financial control, including maintaining separate project accounts,
preparation of disbursement applications, management of the Special
Account, preparation of project accounts for audit, etc.; and
(1) preparation of project progress reports.
4.05      The CMC would operate as a task force for planning and
implementation of the project. It would be composed of experienced GOSL staff
and consultants. The CMC was established, and the Project Director appointed,
prior to negotiations for the IDA Credit. CHC staff would be drawn from ID,
DAS and IMD. The CMC would have work units for institutional development,
operation and maintenance, training (all to be staffed by GOSL employees and
consultants), designs, progress monitoring, procurement, accounts, and
administration (to be staffed by GOSL employees only). The consultants would
be fully responsible for feasibility planning of all medium/major schemes.
4.06      Regional Support Teams (RST) of the CMC, to be staffed by
consultants, would be established in the provinces. The RSTs would discharge
the CMC's responsibilities at the local level, including: (a) acreening of
preliminary rehabilitation proposals; Cb) technical review of plans and
designs for minor schemes; (c) monitoring of progress and quality control of
all civil works, including certification of disbursement applications; and (d)
providing institutional support to the FOs. Each RST would include a
construction engineer, an institutional development officer, and a technical
officer. Full details on the consultants' responsibilities are given in Annex
6.



- 23 -
Irrigation Department
4.07      The ID through its range offices would procure and implement the
project works in all the medium/major schemes remaining under the management
of ID. Specifically, the range offices would be responsible for: (a)
conducting surveys and investigations; (b) managing construction works; and
(c) introducing improved O&M practices in the schemes under their control.
The range offices would select, and ID would employ, IOs for the schemes
concerned (in consultation with the RSTs, which would clear the appointments).
ID range offices are headed by deputy-directors who would delegate
responsibility for implementing the project works to divisional irrigation
engineers. The technical assistants of the irrigation divisions would
function as scheme managers and would coordinate all project activities with
the FOs, the scheme project committees, and the agricultural support services
in the scheme area. The IOs would work under their direct supervision. The
RSTs would monitor the progress and quality of construction work and provide
technical and institutional guidance to the scheme.
4.08      Where necessary, II) and its range offices would assist the
provincial administrations with the implementation of project works in schemes
under provincial management. The need for such assistance would be determined
on a year-to-year basis and may vary from one province to another (para 4.12).
Several reviews of GOSL's organizational arrangements for serving the
irrigation sector are being carried out (para 1.11). These reviews cover both
the central and provincial administrations and, by the end of 1991, are
expected to result by the end of 1991 in detailed proposals for streamlining
GOSL's services to the irrigation sector. During negotiations agreements were
obtained from GOSL that proposals for the future organizational arrangements
of public services to the irrigati3n sector would be sent to IDA for review
and comment by June 30, 1992, and that GOSL would submit, by December 31,
1992, a timetable for implementing agreed recommendations.
Department of Agrarian Services
4.09      The Commissioner of Agrarian Services would register FOs for all
schemes to be covered by the project in accordance with the provisions of the
Agrarian Services Act. The district assistant commissioners would select, and
DAS would employ, IOs for all rehabilitation schemes under provincial
management, after obtaining clearance from the RSTs. The district assistant
commissioners and provincial deputy commissioners would screen all
identification reports for repair and rehabilitation of minor schemes ane'
decide which schemes would be repaired with local funding and which would be
considered for financing under the project.
Provincial Councils
4.10      The provincial councils would be responsible for implementing the
project in all minor and medium/major schemes under provincial management.
Provincial project coordination committees would be established in all
provinces to coordinate project activities. The committees would approve the
annual work programs, review project progress, and resolve any problems which
may arise. The chief secretaries of the provincial councils would chair the



- 24 -
committees, and the secretaries of the provincial ministries and heads of
departments involved in implementing the project would be the members.
4.11      The provincial irrigation units (in some provinces a separate unit
within a major engineering and construction agency, in others an independent
department) would undertake a substantial number of tasks undar the project,
including:
(a) preparation of feasibility studies (including O&M plans) for all
minor schemes;
(b) surveys and investigations for all schemes under provincial
management;
(c) preparation of designs for minor schemes;
(d) procurement and management of construction works for all schemes
under provincial control;
(e) introduction of improved G&M practices in medium/major schemes under
provincial management; and
(f) provision of technical support services for all schemes, where
needed.
4.12      The provincial irrigation units were established only recently and
most are short of experienced staff. Therefore, the CMC each year would
review the implementation capacity and workloads of the provincial irrigation
units in order to determine their capacity for undertaking the tasks assigned
to them under the project. After consultations with the chief secretaries,
the ID would assume responsibility for executing all tasks found to be beyond
the capacity of the provincial irrigation units. The first such review was
conducted during the appraisal of the project in December 1990. At that time
it was decided to assign the responsibility for preparing detailed designs for
the first group of minor schemes in 1991 to the Designs Branch of ID instead
of the provincial irrigation units. Similar reviews would be conducted during
the months April - June of each project year. During negotiations agreement
was obtained from GOSL that draft annual project work programs, budgets and
staff requirements for the central and provincial implementing agencies,
together with the actual staff positions of the agencies and the recommended
division of responsibilities, would be sent to IDA for review and comment
before June 30 of the year preceding the project year concerned. Submission
of the draft work program, budget, staff requirements and actual positions for
1992, together with the recommended division of responsibilities between the
center and the provinces, would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA
Credit.
4.13      The agricultural planning teams (APT), one of which exists in each
administrative division, would undertake several key tasks at the field level.
These tasks include: (a) preparing identification reports for the
rehabilitation and improvement of minor schemes; (b) together with the IOs,
promoting the formation of FOs in all schemes to be covered by the project;



- 25 -
(c) assisting the provincial irrigation units during the preparation of
improved O&M plans; and (d) advising the farmers in all schemes on the
introduction of the improved O&M plans and better cropping practices. The
APTs would be guided by district and provincial level specialists and the
RSTs.
Farmer Organizations
4.14      The FOs, as the clients of the rehabilitation and improvement works,
would partic.pate as full partners in the entire cycle from preconstruction
activities through O&M. During the preconstruction stage the FOs would
discuss and approve the preliminary and final plans for the rehabilitation and
improvement works. These plans would include an contribution of at least 1OZ
of the cost of the works by the farmers themselves. During preconstruction
the FOs would also adopt a plan for improved O&M. During the construction
stage the FOs would execute their contribution to the rehabilitation works and
any additional works they may have contracted for. Duting the O&M phase the
FOs would operate and maintain the schemes in accordance with an agreed plan.
Management of the Training Program
4.15      The CMC would have overall responsibility for planning and
implementing the training and staff development program. Because of the scope
and volume of training envisaged, the CMC would be assisted in this task by an
internationally recruited training management specialist and a locally
recruited farmer training specialist. At least one counterpart would be
assigned to each consultant to sustain management of the training program
after completion of the project. The consultants and their counterparts would
initially prepare, and thereafter annually revise, detailed plans and budgets
for implementation of the training program during the entire project period,
based on updated training needs. They would also supervise program
implementation in the field and evaluate the impact of all training
activities. The curricula for all relevant existing training programs would
be reviewed and adapted, as necessary, to meet the needs of the project. The
most qualified persons from training institutes and agency staff would be
selected to serve as trainers. The communications skills of those selected
would be raised through training-of-trainers' programs. Existing in-service
training institutes would be used as venues for in-service training of
existing agency staff and for induction courses for IOs. The training of FO
representatives and farmers would be conducted as close as possible to the
project sites.
C. Reporting Requirements
4.16      The following reports would be sent regularly to IDA:
(a)  quarterly project progress reports, including summary statements on
the contributions made by the FOs towards the implementation of
rehabilitation and improvement works, within one month of the close
of each quarter;



- 26 -
(b) audited financial statements of the project, together with the
auditor's report and opinion on the financial statement, and the
auditor's separate opinion on SOEs, within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year (para 3.08); and
(c) the Borrower's contribution (Section II) to the Project Completion
Report, within three months of the Borrower's receipt of Sections I
and III from IDA.
D. Project Supervision Plan
4.17      The mix of specialties and frequency and duration of missions likIly
to be needed to ensure adequate project supervision is as followss
Mission   Time                 Specialty/Duration (Weeks)           Total
No.      Mo./Yr        Eng.  AE    Inst.    Trg.       Env.  Staff   Weeks
1         6/91          2      1                                2       3
2        11/91          2      2      1        1                4       6
3         5/92          2      1                        1       3       4
4        11/92          2      1      1        1                4       5
5         5193          2      1                                2       3
6        11/93          2      1      1       1                 4       5
7         5/94          1     1                                2        2
8   *    11/94          2      2      2        2        1       5       9
9         5/95          1      1                                2       2
10        11/95          2      1      1        1                4       5
11         5/96          1      1                                2       2
12        11/96          2      1      1        1        1       5       6
13         5/97          1      1                                2       2
14**    11/97            2      2      2        1        1       5       8
Total                    24    17       9        8        4              62
Notes
Eng.  - Engineer                      Trg.  - Training Specialist
AE    - Agricultural Economist        Env.  - Environmental Specialist
Inst. - Institutional Specialist
*    - Mid-term review mission
**    - Final review mission and initiation of PCR process
Because of the still evolving relationship between the central and provincial
government agencies (para 4.12), supervision missions which would review the
draft annual project work programs would include an institutional and a
training specialist to ensure that appropriate arrangements are being made.



27 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Agricultural Production
General
5.01        The primary benefits of the project would arise from sustaining
the current levels of agricultural production through rehabilitation of
existing irrigation facilities. Improvement works and introduction of better
O&M practices would result in additional benefits. Also, improvements in the
conveyance system and control of water deliveries would facilitate the
introduction of other field crops to the cropping system, until now dominated
by paddy. The project would improve the living standards of farm families
operating in the schemes, most of whom rely completely on irrigated
agriculture. Estimates of total project benefits have been based on a
detailed appraisal of a sample of six schemes, representing agro-climatic and
farm production conditions prevailing in the dry and wet zones. Two of the
sample schemes apply to medium/major systems and four apply to minor schemes.
5.02        Compared with present levels, production from all schemes to be
rehabilitated under the project would increase by about 20,000 mt of paddy and
about 5,700 mt of other field crops, valued at about US$4.0 million per year
at full development. The project would also stabilize the production of about
100,000 mt of paddy from these schemes, valued at about US$15.0 million, which
would otherwise be lost through further deterioration of the schemes. The
income from increased crop production and stabilization of existing production
would directly benefit about 100,000 farm families in the project area. The
increased production would generate an additional annual labor demand for farm
activities of about 2,000 person-years, largely hired labor. The reduction in
employment resulting from reduced production without the project would be
about 8,000 person-years. Temporary off-farm employment created during
project implementation is estimated at about 7,000 person-years; this
employment would primarily benefit the landless.
Crop Yields and Production
5.03        Increases in crop areas would range between 0X and 20X, and
increases in paddy yields between 5% and 10%. Most of the expected gains
would come from farmers cultivating the tail-end lands of the schemes, as
these farmers generally experience difficulties in receiving water. The
project would permit modest levels of crop diversification during the dry
season in schemes in the dry zone. Table 5.1 summarizes the projected changes
in the cropping intensities and the production of rice and other field crops
in the six appraised schemes. Details are given in Annex 11, Tables 1-6.



- 28 -
Table 5.1: Cropping Intensities and CroD Production of Appraised
Schemes _a/
IL    IL    ILL    IV    V    V
Area (ha)
Net Irrigable Area                819    195    17    32    39   22
Cultivated Area P h/            1,638    205    34    32    39   24
Cultivated Area W/O S/          1,310    150    24    25    25   17
Cultivated Area W !/            1,638    223    34    38    47   28
Cropping Intensity (X)
P                          200    105   200   100   100  109
W/0                        160     77   141    78    64   77
W                          200    114   200   118   121  117
Reduction W 0 Project              40      28    59    22    36   32
Increase W Project                  -       9     -    18    21    8
Total Increment                  40      37    59    40    57   40
Crop Production (mt)
Maha Season Rice             P  3,194    761    39   128   156   79
W/O  1,769    315    24    78   113   46
W  3,440    800    43   141   180   88
Yala Season Rice             P  3,112      37    36      -     -    6
W/0  1,703       -    22      -     -    -
W  3D276      78    33            -   10
Other Field Crops g/         P      -       -     -      -     -    -
W/0      -       -     -      -
w     24       9     2      6     8    3
Total                      P  6,306    798    75   128   156    85
W/0  3,472    315    46    78   113    46
W  6,740    887    78   147   188   101
Reduction W/O Project           2,834    483    29    50    43    39
Increase W Project                434      89     3    19    32    16
Total Increment               3,268    572    32    69    75    55
I Kaltota; II Mahagal Wewa; III Dorakada Liyadde; IV Kobeigane,
V Mahakiri Ibbewa; VI Nittewa.
Present, _/ Without Project, A/ With Project.
Includes crops such as chillies, onions, pulses and vegetables.



 29 -
B. Marketing and Prices
5.04      Sri Lanka is a net importer of rice.  In the 1980s, annual rice
imports averaged about 10% of domestic consumption. The country also imports
wheat flour and wheat grain, averaging about 500,000 mt per year. Despite
GOSL's desire to attain self-sufficiency in rice production, the goal has
remained elusive. Available evidence suggests that full self-sufficiency
would not be reached in the next ten years or so. The incremental production
of rice and other food crops resulting from the project therefore would be
consumed domestically, mostly within the areas of production.
5.05      The procurement of food crops and supply of production inputs in all
schemes is handled by private traders. GOSL's interventions in these
activities are minimal. The subsidy on fertilizer was removed in 1989 and all
inputs now are avail&ble to farmers at competitive prices. No major problems
of produce disposal or input supply are envisaged in the future.
C. Farm Incomes
5.06      In order to assess the impact of the project, a detailed analysis of
farm incomes was conducted and farm budgets were prepared for each of the six
sample schemes. The analysis was based on owner-operated farms since about
85% of the land is cultivated by owners. The average farm size in the schemes
ranged from a low of 0.2 ha in Dorakada Liyadde to a high of 1.4 ha in Mahagal
Wewa. The farm models were designed on the basis of present and estimated
future cropping patterns and cultivation practices. Gross incomes and costs
of production were estimated using actual December 1990 market prices.
Production costs include the schemes' O&M costs to be met by the farmers, at
an estimated average rate of Rs 670 per ha for tank schemes and Rs 600 per ha
for diversion schemes. Table 5.2 presents a summary of the average farm
incomes indicating conditions and conditions with and without the project.
Details are given in Annex 11, Tables 7-12.
Table 5.2:  Summary of Farm Incomes a/
Farm                Farm Income (Rs)
Size   Present  Without  With        Incremental
Scheme            ,(h)l1   ,       t Pject   P            -I    II S/
Kaltota            0.4    11,217    4,244   17,298   6,081  13,054
Mahagal Wewa       1.1    19,666    8,643   24,256   4,596  15,613
Dorakada Liyadde  0.2      2,320    1,274    2,996       676   1,722
Kobeigane          0.2     3,174    1,710    3,768       594   2,050
Mahakiri Ibbewa   0.35    5,247    2,194    6,215        968   4,021
Nittewa            0.6     8,913    4,982   10,432   1,519   5,450
Al Annual gross production value minus cash production cost
k/ Difference between with project and present income
S/ Difference between with project and without project income



- 30 -
5.07      Incremental incomes in the six sample schemes are estimated to range
between 15% and 55% over present levels, and between 100% and 300% over levels
without the project. The distribution of incremental incomes from the
project, according to farm sizes and land tenancy arrangements, is not
expected to differ significantly from the present situation. Sharecropping is
practiced on about 15% of the land. In most such cases, the sharecropper pays
for all inputs and retains 50% of the produce.
D. Economic Analysis
5.08      The overall economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is
estimated at 31% and the NPV at about US$58.0 million. The main assumptions
underlying the analysis and the methodology followed are described below.
(a)  Agricultural Production.  Estimates for the entire project are based
on production and cost data from the six representative sample
schemes. The key variables affecting crop production are: crop
yields, cropping pattern, and cultivation intensity. Estimates of
these variables with and without the project were based on estimates
of the remaining life span of all existing scheme facilities and
detailed discussions with scheme officials and farmers. Details of
production-related variables are given in Annex 11, Tables 1-6.
(b)  InRut-OutRut Prices.  The projected prices for tradeable goods used
in the analysis were based on the Bank's December 1990 price
forecasts, wherever applicable. For other goods, domestic financial
prices were converted to economic prices using a standard conversion
factor (SCF) of 0.85. Unskilled labor costs were adjusted by a
conversion factor of 0.9. A summary of financial and economic
prices is given in Annex 12, Tables 1 and 2.
(c) Proiect Execution.  Preconstruction activities commenced in early
1991. Construction would begin in early 1992 and would be completed
in 1997. The implementation schedule is given in Annex 7. The
analysis has been based on a project investment life span of 25
years.
(d)  Investment Costs.  The analysis was based on project costs directly
associated with the schemes. It excludes taxes, other transfer
payments and price contingencies. The local costs were adjusted by
a SCF of 0.85.
(e)  Ooeration and Maintenance Costs.  Estimates of incremental O&M costs
were made for each sample scheme and were adjusted by a SCF of 0.85.



- 31 -
E. Sensitivity Analysis, Special Emphasis, and Risks
5.09        Sensitivity Analysis.  The project's viability under adverse
conditions was tested using sensitivity analysis. The results of the tests
are summarized in Table 5.3. The switching values indicate the percentage
change in each of the variable streams required to reduce the ERR to 102
(assumed opportunity cost of capital). The test results show that relatively
large changes would be required to reduce the project's economic viability to
below acceptable levels.
Table 5.3: Sensitivity Analysis
Switching Value
Variable Tested                               (percentage change)
Increase in rehabilitation costs                       292
Decrease in crop revenue in Maha season                 -76
Decrease in crop revenue in Yala season               -129
Increase in cost of farm inputs in Maha season         260
Increase in cost of farm inputs in Yala season         317
Lag in benefits (in years)                                6
5.10        Special Operational Emphasis.  Rehabilitation and improvement of
existing irrigation schemes, of which many were constructed centuries ago,
would benefit entire local communities in Sri Lanka. Additional employment
opportunities would be created, especially for the landless, both off-farm
during construction and on-farm during planting and harvesting seasons. Sri
Lankan men and women have equal access to economic opportunities and social
facilities. Many of the farmers are women, and women are active participants
in community activities, including the farmer organizations now being
established in the irrigation schemes. Therefore, women and men are expected
to benefit equally from the project.
5.11      Project Risks.  The project faces two main risks.  First, inadequate
staffing of the new provincial administrations could cause implementation
delays or sub-standard quality of works. To minimize this risk, a Central
Management Cell would be established in the Irrigation Department and
consultants would be employed to assist the provincial administrations with
project planning and implementation and to monitor the quality of works. The
capacity of the provincial administrations would be reviewed each year and, if
necessary, tasks beyond their capacity would be assigned to the Irrigation
Department. Second, the establishment of farmer organizations could proceed
at a slower pace than expected, causing delays in project implementation.
Institutional organizers would be employed in all schemes to assist with the
formation of farmer organizations and to minimize the risk of delays.



- 32 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMI:NDATION
6.01      Agreements have been obtained from GOSL that:
(a)  schemes would be selected in accordance with criteria specified in
Annex 1 (para 2.05);
(b)  a plan for periodic safety inspection of dams constructed or
rehabilitated under the project would be sent to IDA for review by
December 31, 1992 (para 2.05);
(c)  consultants for project planning and implementation would be
appointed by December 31, 1991 (para 2.22);
(d)  proposals for the future organizational arrangements of public
services to the irrigation sector would be sent to IDA for review
and comment by June 30, 1992, and a timetable for implementing
agreed recommendations would be submitted to IDA by December 31,
1992 (para 4.08); and
(e)  draft annual project work programs, budgets, and staff requirements
for the central and provincial implementing agencies, together with
the actual staff positions of the agencies and the recommended
division of responsibilities, would be sent to IDA for review and
comment before June 30 of each year (para 4.12).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  signing of the cofinancing agreement between GOSL and EEC (para
3.02); and
(b)  submission to IDA of the draft work prolram, budget, staff
requirements, and actual staff positions for 1992, together with the
recommended division of responsibilities between the center and the
provinces (para 4.12).
6.03      Disbursements against expenditures in the Northern and Eastern
Provinces would be conditional upon completion of on-site appraisal of
selected schemes and review of implementation e_:angements to the satisfaction
of IDA (para 2.06).
6.04      With the above conditions and agreements, the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 21.9 million (US$29.6 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years. The Borrower would be the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.



-33-                                ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Rehabilitation and Improvement Works
A. Criteria for Selection of Schemes
1.        Existing operational medium/major and minor schemes,listed in the
inventories of ID and DAS, respectively, would qualify for rehabilitation and
improvement under the project. In order to be selected, proposed schemes must
satisfy the following criteria:
(a)   a farmer organization (FO) would be established and registered at
the preconstruction phase in accordance with the Agrarian Services
Act of 1979, as amended in 1991;
(b)   the FO would agree: (i) to contribute at least 102 of the cost of
rehabilitation and improvement in the form of free labor, or any
other acceptable form; and (ii) to operate and maintain the scheme
in accordance with an agreed plan;
(c)   for minor schemes (less than 80 ha) the FO would bear the full cost
of O&M after completion of rehabilitation and improvement;
(d)   for medium/major schemes (80 ha and over) the FO would: (i) bear the
full cost of O&M of distributory and field canals after completion
of rehabilitation and improvement; and (ii) bear the cost of O&M of
headworks and main canals starting two years after completion of
rehabilitation and improvement (initially, payments would not exceed
Rs 500 per ha in 1991 prices; this amount would be adjusted
annually, taking into account inflation during the previous year and
the need to achieve full O&H cost recovery for all rehabilitated
schemes within a reaso..able time period);
(e)   the command area would not be less than 4 ha and the number of
benefitting families not less than 10;
(f)   the investment cost would not exceed Rs 40.0 million (US$1.0 million
equivalent) in 1991 prices;
(g)   for medium/major schemes the economic rate of return of
rehabilitatiun and improvement works would be at least 15Z; and
(h)   for minor schemes (less than 80 ha) the cost of rehabilitation and
improvement works would not exceed a base cost of Rs 30,000 (US$750
equivalent) per ha in 1991 prices.



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
B. Guidelines for Preparation of Minor Schemes
Introduction
2.        Standard proforma would be used for assembling all technical
information required for the preparation of identification and feasibility
reports. Minor and medium/major schemes would have different standards for
acceptance into the project. The proforma for the identification report would
be the same for all schemes but separate proforma would be used for the
feasibility reports for minor schemes and medium/major schemes, respectively.
This section provides guidance for field stELff for the preparation of
identification and feasibility reports for minor schemes. Feasibility studies
for medium/major schemes would be prepared by consultants (see Annex 6 for a
description of consultant's terms of reference).
Proforma for Identification Reports for Minor Schemes
3.        The proforma for identification reports for minor schemes would have
the following parts:
I.        Name of Scheme and Location.  Province, district, division, and a
brief descr.ption of means of access.
II.       Description of Scheme and its Condition.  A brief description of the
scheme, including: type of scheme; data for headworks and canal system;
condition of infrastructure; rehabilitation works undertaken during the last
five years; reasons for deterioration; and safety of infrastructure. In
addition, details on: the socio-economic situation (population, farm families,
occupation, and incomes); agriculture (farming practices and yields); farmers'
participation in the identification process; their interest in forming a FO,
contributing a part of the capital cost, and taking over the full
responsibility for O&M of scheme. Also to be included: comments on present
and expected future effects of the deterio .ated scheme condition on the socio-
economic situation of the farmers and, specifically, on the security of the
scheme, in case deterioration is allowed to continue.
III.      Proposals.  To be included: details and costs of necessary
rehabilitation works to restore the scheme to design parameters. Desirable
improvement works may bc: suggested but costs need not be estimated at this
stage.
Proforma for Feasibility Reports for Minor Schemes
2.03      The proforma for feasibility reports for minor schemes would have
the following partes
I.        Name of Scheme and Location.  Province, district, division,
coordinates, and a brief description of access.
II.       Description of Scheme and its Condition.  Data required include:



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
(a)   Engineering:  type of scheme; brief description of the system,
including data on irrigable command area, headworks, and canal
system; condition of infrastructure and reasons for deterioration;
comments on the safety of the system; description of the operational
plan (preventive and periodic maintenance, operation of the
headworks, and rotational water distribution system) and its
effectiveness; repair and rehabilitation works carried out over the
last five years, and amounts and sources of financing for these
works (including farmers' contributions in the form of cash or
labor);
(b)   Socio-economic: population, number of farm families, occupation, and
incomes;
(c)   Agricultural: soils, farming practices, cropping patterns, and crop
yields;
(d)   Institutional: support services of GOSL (ID, DAS, Department of
Agriculture, and agrarian services centers); banking facilities;
processing and storage; transport and marketing (public or private);
(e)   Management: scheme management; effectiveness of the system; FOs (if
any) and their effectiveness; responsibilities of GOSL agencies and
FOs for O&M of headworks and canal system, including operation of a
rotational water distribution system, if any; and
(f)   Environment: catchment degradation (deforestation and cultivation);
tank bed cultivation; silting of tanks; seepage at tank bunds and
waterlogging downstream of tank bunds; waterlogging in the irrigable
area due to poor drainage conditions (flood backwater, silting, man-
made obstructions along natural drains, borrow pits); agro-chemical
and industrial pollutants and effects on domestic water supplies;
health hazards due to polluted water and insects.
III.      Hydrology
Tank Schemes. Data required include: (a) agro-ecological zone; (b)
catchment area; (c) condition of terrain; (d) number of operating schemes and
proposed development in the catchment; (e) monthly rainfall data with a
probability factor of 75Z; (f) seasonal specific yields; (g) utilizable yield
assumed at 702 of the seasonal yield less water used by the upstream and
downstream users; and (h) flood runoff based on the rational formula.
Diversion Schemes. Most diversion works are located across minor
streams with perennial flow. The irrigable area during the wet season is
limited by land availability and during the dry season by the minimum flow.
The hydrological analysis would determine the minimum dry-season flow and the
maximum flood runoff during the wet season. As discharge data are not
available to determine these parameters, the following methodology is
suggested:



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
(a)   during the identification and feasibility phase (about 18 months),
flow measurements (current metering or float method) would be
conducted during two dry seasons and one wet season. In addition,
discharge data at upstream diversion works would be collected. On
this basis irrigable command area for the Maha and Yala seasons for
these flows would be determined; and
(b)   catchment area conditions, rainfall and 3tream capacity would be
analyzed. This would include the following steps:
(i)   determine catchment area and agro-ecological region;
(ii)  determine the 752 monthly rainfall and the monthly yield for
the catchment area using long term daily rainfall data from
the nearest representative rainfall station;
(iii)  compute maximum stream capacity, adjust 75Z probability yield
for maximum stream capacity, and on a pro-rata basis compute
the weekly rainfall;
(iv)  compute weekly crop water requirements for the irrigable area;
*v)   compare available water, as at para (b) (iii), with water
requirement, as at para (b) (iv), and estimate the weekly
success rate. Success rates should not be less than 1002 and
702 for the Maha and Yala seasons, respectively. Compare
these areas with those obtained under para (a) above.
IV.       Proposals
(a) Rehabilitation and Improvements. Details would be given for
headworks and canal system. Rehabilitation would cover works to
restore the scheme to design parameters, including repairs and
replacement of structures. Improvements would cover new works, such
as additional sluices, protection works, lining of canals,
additional canals and control arrangements, improved or new drainage
canals;
(b)   Operation and Maintenance.  Preventive and periodic maintenance
works (including frequency) would be described separately for
headworks and the canal system. This would include:
(i)   headworks: preventive maintenance of the tank bund and access
roads; spillway approach and tail canals; sluices, including
control arrangements and clearing of debris at intakes;
upstream and downstream protection works; filter toe and lead
away drains; diversion headworks and clearing of the main
diversion stream; and periodic maintenance of spillways;
protection works for embankment and sluices; filters; toe and



-37-                                 ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
lead away drains; diversion works; and replacement of stop
logs; and
(ii) canal system; preventive maintenance of the main,
distributory, and field canal bunds and roads; backfilling of
slips or undermined foundations at structures; minor repairs
and greasing of control arrangements of turnouts; repairs to
protection works at drop structures; and periodic maintenance
for desilting of main, distributory, and field canals;
clearing of drainage canals; major repairs to canal
structures; repair or replacement of control arrangements.
(c)   Management.  A brief description of the proposed management
structure (organization, activities, and responsibilities of FOs);
the roles of central government and provincial agencies; and
suggestions for resolving problems of processing and storage,
transport and marketing, and supply of farm inputs; and
(d)   Environment.  Description of measures to eliminate or minimize
adverse effects of environmental problems and participation of the
FOs in implementing the measures.
V.        Estimated Cost.  A proforma for the estimate is given below:
Unit    Quantity    Rate    Amount   Foreign    Tax Rate
________             '_____       2   of   Amount
Headworks
Rehabilitation
Improvement
Downstream Development
Rehabilitation
Improvement
Environmental Protection Works
Reforestation
Subtotal Base Cost
General
Engineering and Administration (122 of base cost)
Physical Contingencies (52 of base cost)
Price Contingencies (102 of base cost)
Subtotai General
Total Cost
VI.       Benefits and Justification.  This would include: crop areas, yields
and production with and without the project and the benefit/cost ratio. Cost
would include investment and O&M costs. Benefits would be net of farm
production cost.



- 38 -                                 ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
VII.      Compliance with Selection Criteria
VIII.     Attachments.  This would include:
(a)   location map;
(b)   scheme plan to a suitable scale showing the headworks, and
downstream development area;
(c)   sketch plan of the command area, showing the canal system including
drainage canals and plots;
(e)   rotational system (frequency and quantity of water), referenced to
the notations for turnouts and plots shown in the sketch plan;
(f)   longitudinal sections and cross-sections of embankments and streams,
and site surveys of headworks structures such as spillways sluices,
and diversion works;
(g)   quantity sheets;
(h)   minutes of meetings with the FO; and
(i)   documents confirming the legal status of the FO, and the FO's
agreement: (i) to contribute at least 102 of the cost of civil
works; and (ii) to operate and maintain the scheme in accordance
with an agreed plan and to assume the cost of O&M as specified in
para 1.



- 39 -
AN,NEX 
Table 1
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REBABILITATION PROJECT
Anoraised and Prepared Schemes
Irrigable         Far    Estimated
Command Area    Families           Cost    Management
Scheme                                  Province       District              (he)         -(No.)        (Rs ML    ID/Province
Appraised Schemes
Medium/Malor
1. Kaltota Diversion                   Sabaragamuwa   Ratnapura                  820        1,800          16.0         ID
2. Maha Galwewa - Meesahajandura       Southern        Sambantota                 195       1,000           9.2      Province
Tank
Minor
3. Dorakada Liyadde Diversion          Western         Kalutara                   16          450           0.4      Province
4. Maha Kiri Ibbewa Tank               North           Anuradhapura               41        1.500           1.0      Province
Central
5. Kobeigane Tank                      North           Kurunegala                 34          550           0.9      Province
Western
6.  Nittewa Tank                       North           Anuradhapura               22          400           0.9      Province
Central
Total Appraised Schemes                                                        1,128                       28.4
Prepared Schemes:
Medium/Malor
7. Buttala Amuna Diversion             Uva             Monaragala                650          884          13.1         ID
8. Gampola Wela Raja Ela Diversion   Central           Kandy                     160          500           4.5      Province
9.  Udugodu Bandars Ela Diversion      Central         Kandy                     117          500           3.5      Province
10. Wennaru Wewa Tank                  North           Kurunegala                188          425           3.7      Province
Western
Minor
11. Ulugala Amuna Diversion            Sabaragamuwa   Ratnepura                   15           75           0.5      Province
12. Beramada Maha Ela Diversion        Uva             Badulla                    17           60           0.5      Province
13. Moragaswewa Tank                   North           Polonnaruwa                19           90           0.9      Province
Central
14. Pitaha Maha Ela Diversion          Central         Nuwara Eliya               19           45           0.3      Province
15. Nelugolakada Maha Wewa Tank        North           Anuradhapura               57           60           1.1      Province
Central
16. Peth.yannekada Wewa Tank           North           Anuradhapura               80          170           2.7      Province
Central
17. Karawdeniya Mahawewa Tank          North           Anuradhapura               12           24           0.6      Province
Central
Total Prepared Schemes                                                         1,334                       31.4
February 28, 1991



ANNEX1
-40-                                    Table 2
SRILA=
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Identified Mediumaalior Tank Schemes
Irrigable           Estimated
Command Area                Cost
Scheme                           District                 ,   (ha)                 (Rs M)
North Eastern Province
1.  Namal Oya _a/                Ampara                             950               13.5
2.  Pallang Oya                                                   1,312               18.0
3.  Tempitiya                                                       174                4.0
4.  Sevakapattu                  Batticaloa                         122                 2.5
5.  Visvamadu                    Mullaitivu                         327                3.7
6. Ethun Bendiwewa               Trincomalee                        129                1.5
7.  Maruthamadw Tank             Vavuniya                           177                4.9
8.  Adampan Kulam                Mannar                             162                2.5
Subtotal                                                        3,353               50.6
North Central Province
1.  Ambagaha Wewa                Anuradhapura                       122                3.4
2.  Ittikulama Wewa                    n                            211                3.2
3.  Kalanchiya Wewa                                                 243                5.8
4.  Kapirigama Wewa                                                 113                 3.1
5.  Labunoruwa Wewa                                                 283                7.0
6.  Manankatiya Wewa a/                                             607               1.4.0
7.  Manewa Wewa                                                      81                2.5
8.  Puwarasankulama a/n                                             100                3.1
9.  Ralapanawa Wewa                    "                            122                 1.8
10. Rampathwila Wewa                   "                            105                 2.5
11. Sangili Kanadarawa                                              340                7.6
12. Usgal Siyambalangamuwa a/"                                      643               11.0
13. Wahalkada A/                                                    810               25.0
14. Bebiyawa Wewa                Polonnaruwa                         94                 3.1
15. Erige Oya                          "                            107                1.8
Subtotal                                                        3,981               94.9



ANNEX 1
- 41-                               Table 2
(continued)
Irrigable           Estimated
Command Area               Cost
Scheme                           District                     (ha)                (Rs M)
North Western Province
1.  Pahariya                     Puttalam                          146                4.9
Central Province
1.  Dewa Huwa                    Matale                            946               14.0
Western Province
1.  Uyanwatta Wewa               Kalutura                          142                2.5
Southern Province
1.  Deegoda Wewa                 Galle                              81                2.5
2.  Badagiriya Wewa -/           Hambantota                        850                5.0
3.  Pahala Andera Wewa                                              93                2.5
4.  Muruthuwela Tank                  "                          1,609               36.6
5.  Pallemattala Tank                 "                            134                2.9
6.  Pattiyapola Maha Wewa             "                            182                8.0
7.  Ranmudu Wewa                      "                             81                2.6
8.  Denagama Wewa                Matara                            343                4.1
9.  Ellawala Tank                                                  542                6.1
10. Kekanadura Tank                                                447               11.1
Subtotal                                                       4,362               81.4
Uva Province
1.  Ambewela Tank -/             Badulla                           403                9.0
2.  Kande Ela Tank  /               "                              645                8.1
3.  Balaharuwa Tank              Monaragala                         85                3.1
4.  Ethimole Wewa -/                "                              405                 9.6
5.  Maha Wewa                       "                              101                2.5
6.  Monarawana Tank                 "                               94                 3.6
7.  Sudupanwela Tank                "                              243                6.4
Subtotal                                                      1.976                42.3.
Total - 43 Schemes                                            14,906              290.6
a/ Schemes under ID management; the balance are under provincial management.
February 28, 1991



- 42 -                                ANNEX 1
Table 3
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Identified Medium/Major Diversion Schemes
Irrigable          Estimated
Command Area               Cost
Scheme                            District                   (ha)                 ( B5 ML
North Central Province
1.  Attaragallewa Anicut a/       Polonnaruwa                     33'               4.3
2.  Gal Amuna _/                                                1,62C               8.4
3.  Kambiliya Oya a/                                              196               3.1
4.  Kotikapitiya                                                 _142                 .5_
Subtotal                                                      2,291              18.3
North Western Province
1.  Irudeniya                     Kurunagala                      101               4.0
2.  Moragoda Amuna                                                112               3.7
3.  Wattakandal Anicut            Puttalam                        203               6.5
Subtotal                                                        416              14.2
Central Province
1.  Gurukele Galpihilla Amuna    Kandy                            120               5.5
2.  Hattota Amuna                 Matale                          204               3.7
3.  Lamasooriya Diversion         Nuwara Eliya                    142               3.4
Subtotal                                                        466              12.6
Western Province
1.  Ketewala Diversion            Gampaha                         634              12.2
2.  Kotugoda Bolanda                 "                             89               1.8
3.  Morena                                                        454               9.2
4.  Panugala                                                      269                9.8
Subtotal                                                      1,446              33.0
Southern Province
1.  Aluth Pahala Kepu-Ela         Galle                            97               1.6
2.  Dorape Ela Amuna 1 & 2           n                            105               1.8
3.  Hathagala Udu Amuna           Hambantota                      101               3.2
4.  Karagas Aru Amuna                "Ql                                            2.5
Subtotal                                                        404               9.1
Sabaragamuwa Province
1.  Damme Ela                     Ratnapura                       103               3.7
2.  Hulanda Oya                      n                             81               3.1
3.  Wallalgoda                      of                            182               3.1
4.  Wellawa                          of                           215               2.5
Subtotal                                                        581              12.4
Uva Province
1.  Debara Aru                    Monaragala                       97               9.6
2.  Horabokka                                                     101               2.5
3.  Hulandawa Oya Anicut                                          103               2.5
4.  Maha Thotilla Ela             Badulla                         284                !.O
Subtotal                                                        585              19.6
Total - 26 Schemes                                            6,189             119.2
L/ Schemes under ID management; the balance are under provincial management.
February 28, 1991



SRI LMANK
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Identified Minor Schemes
Tank Schemes                      Area                            Diversion Schemes                        Area
Total Inventory            Reauirina Rehabilitation        under          Total Inventory            Rewuiring Rehabilitation       under
Area                    Area          Cost     NlRP                       Area                      Area       Cost      RIRP
Province and District            Ncs          (ha)         No.        (ha)            M       (ha) s(ha?                                          (ha)     (Rs H)      (ha)
Worth Eastern
Jaffna                            727        7.679         213       3,215          85.5                       -           -            -            -          -
Mbllaitiu                         173        4,516          92       3,107          80.0                       -           -            -            -
Killonochi                        190        3.896         102       2,917          76.0                       -           -            -            -          -
Vavuniya                          520        9,275         210       5,105         145.0                       -           -            -            -          -
Mannar                            181        2,818          83       1.019          29.0                       -           -            -            -          -
Trincomalee                      218         1.923         154       1.200          29.5                       -           -            -            -          -
Batticaloa                       293         9,652         113       7.144         192.0                       -           -            -            -          -
Axmpra                             96        2.517          51       7.144          32.7                       -           -            -            -          -
Subtotal                     2,398       42,276       1,018      24.907         669.7        1,700           -           -            -            -          -
North Central
Anuradhapura                   2,549        49,247       1,020      19.640          49.2                       -           -            -            -          -
Polonnaruwa                      200       4.400           120      2.620           66.0                      18         448           20          437       11.0
Subtotal                     2,749       53,647       1,140      22,260          115.2      5.500           18        448            20         437        11.0         200
North Western
Puttalam                         858       10,594          436      4,930           14.5                      55         402           30          218        5.0
Kurunegala                      5.384       39.426       2.915      21.306         507.0                      _          _            __            _
Subtotal                     6,242       50,020       3.351      26,236         521.5       1.500           55        402           30          218         5.0         100
Western
Ga5paba                             -            -           -           -             -                     649      5,855           127        1.111       22.5
Colowbo                             -            -           -           -             -                    228       2,831            56          699       18.6
Kalutsra                            -            -           -           -             -                    362       5.754           105       1.711        372
Subtotal                         -             -          -           -              -           -      1.239       1,440          288        3,521       78.3       1,000
Ia4 
0 



Tank Schemes                      Area                           Diversion Schemes                        Area
Total Inventory            Requiring Rehabilitation       under          Total Inventory            Requiring Rehabilitation       under
Area                   Area          Cost      NIRP                      Area                      Area       Cost     SIRP
Province and District            NO.         (ha)         Nc.        (ha)        (Rs M)     (ha)                      (ha) LNO                  (ha)    (Rs M)       (ha)
Central
Matals                             -            -           -           -             -                   1.070      8,924           627       4.824      112.3
Kandy                              -            -           -           -             -                   1.608     10,309          885        5.164      142.0
Nuwara Eliya                       -            -           -           -             -                   1.053      7.892          646        4.635      207.5
Subtotal                         -            -                       -             -           -      3.731      27.125        2.158       14,623      361.8       3.500
Uva
Badulla                          722        3.301         427       1.590          43.1                     700      3,205          413        1.543       41.9
Moneragala                       446        4.657         298       2.800          77.0                     191      1.995           128       1.200       33.0
Subtotal                     1,168        7.958         725       4.390         120.1       1,500        891       5.200          541        2.743       74.9         700
Sabaragssuwa
Ratnapura                                                                                                   904      7.813          372        3.165       81.0
Kegalle                                                                                                     856      3.476          377        1.060       32.0
Subtotal                                                                                               1.760      11.239          749        4.225      113.0       2.000
Southern
Gallo                            298        5.228          82       1,198          31.9                       -          -            -            -
Matara                           739       11.103         298       4.113         109.4                       -          -            -            -          -
Habantota                        681        9.134         229       2.652          70.5- 
Subtotal                     1.718       25.46          609       7.963         211.8      7.300           --                       -
Total                       14.275      179,366       6,843      85,756       1,638.8     17.500       7,694      58,854        3,786       25.767      644.0       7.500
February 28, 1991
C D 
0f  



-45 -                                   ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Formation of Farmer Organizations and Improved Operation and Maintenance
Introduction
1.        The project would encourage the farmers to maximize returns from all
rehabilitated schemes and would therefore support actions in the following
areas:
(a) formation of farmer organizations (FO);
(b) employment of institutional organizers (IO);
(c) planning and implementation of improved operation and maintenance
(O&M) practices;
(d) demonstration of improved cropping practices; and
(e) logistical support to staff of the technical impLementing agencies;
The project would also support an extensive training program for staff of the
implementing agencies and farmers (Annex 3).
Farmer Organizations
2.        Adoption of improved O&M practices by the farmers requires major
changes in their attitudes and behavior. Instead of relying on GOSL agencies
to undertake maintenance and repair works and organize the distribution of
water in an efficient and equitable manner, farmers should be motiv"'td to
organize themselves for undertaking these tasks. In view of the positive
experience gained in several earlier irrigation rehabilitation projects, it is
envisaged that FOs would be established for all schemes to be rehabilitated
under this project. Most minor schemes would be served by a single FO but for
medium/major schemes two- or three-tier organizations would be required. For
all schemes the process of organizing the farmers would start at the turn-out
or field canal level. Once operative, the lower-level FOs would be combined
to form higher level organizations for management of the scheme. IOs would be
employed under the project to facilitate the organizing process, and also for
some time thereafter to enable the new FOs to stabilize arn' operate on a
sustainable basis (paras 5 - 11). The I0s would be guided in their work by
institutional development officers (consultants) to be based in the Regional
Support Teams (RST), and an institutional specialist at the project's Central
Management Cell (CMC).
3.        Organizing Process.  The process of organizing the farmers involves
a series of actions, including the followingt



- 46 -                                 ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 7
(a) identify and delineate the lowest-level area units, based upon
hydrological boundaries, with a common water outlet (for most minor
schemes this will include tl.e entire command area of the scheme);
(b) prepare accurate lists of irrigation users in each unit and identify
potential farmer representatives based upon criteria, primarily
relating to capabilities and character;
(c) motivate the identified leaders and develop their capability through
training;
(d) organize working committees to handle preconstruction needs
(generally for subjects such as: membership; by-laws; survey and
design; manpower inventory; etc.);
(e) initiate meetings of the working committees and assist the members
in planning their tasks;
(f) organize election, or selection by consensus, of office-bearers
after the by-laws have been ratified by the majority of the farmers
(1Os to act as facilitators during the proceedings);
(g) assist the FOs in obtaining legal recognition from the Commissioner
of Agrarian Services;
(h) specify the mutual responsibilities of technical agencies and the
FOs with regard to subjects such as: procedures for survey and
design; methods of construction and quality control; manpower
recruitment and placement; cost recording and reconciliation; O&M
procedures and guidelines; limits of responsibilities of the FOs and
the technical agencies; and
*i) assist FOs in larger schemes to federate in multi-tier organizations
and committees for management of the schemes.
4.        Project Support.  In addition to institutional expertise, the
project would provide the newly established FOs with office space (rented
space for minor schemes, and new or renovated buildings for medium/major
schemes). The project would also provide basic furniture for the FO offices.
Institutional Organizers
5.        Experience gained over recent years in several major and minor
irrigation schemes has clearly demonstrated the need for special assistance
(in addition to GOSL's permanent technical support services) to bring about
desirable changes in attitudes and behavior of the farmers. The project would
therefore support the temporary employment of IOs for all rehabilitation
schemes.
6.        Role.  After taking up their posts in the schemes, the IOs would
first assess the communities' needs and resources and thereafter plan and



- 47-                                  ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 7
implement strategies for organizing the farmers (see para 3). Subsequently,
they would facilitate and enhance the FOs' capability to plan and manage all
scheme related activities. They would continuously monitor the progress and
effectiveness of the new FOs. Throughout the process the IOs would closely
coordinate with staff of the technical support agencies.
7.        During the preconstruction stage the IOs, in close consultation with
staff of the technical support agencies, would:
(a) ensure that farmers' needs are identified correctly;
(b) enlist the farmers' cooperation for the necessary surveys and
investigations;
(c) discuss the preliminary and final plans for rehabilitation and
improvement works with the FOs to ensure that farmers' views are
fully taken into account;
(d) discuss various options for the FOs to contribute 102 of the
rehabilitation and improvement works and secure its formal
commitment to the preferred option;
(e) explore the possibilities for the FOs to execute part of the works
on force account and make appropriate arrangements to that effect;
and
(f) discuss all details of the proposed O&M plan with the farmers, seek
their agreement to the proposals, ensure that all obligations are
fully understood, and arrange for formal adoption of the plan by the
FOs.
8.        During the construction stage the IOs would:
(a) arrange for coordination between the FOs, implementing agencies and
the contractors to ensure that all works are executed in accordance
with agreed plans and quality standards;
(b) provide all assistance needed by the FOs for the execution of their
102 contribution to the works, and any additional works the FOs may
have contracted for, including the keeping of accurate records; and
(c) help resolve any problems which may arise.
9.        During the O&M stage the IOs would:
(a) ensure coordination between the FOs and staff of the agricultural
support services, particularly the members of the agricultural
planning teams (i.e. divisional officer for institutional subjects,
technical officer for technical matters, and agricultural instructor
for agricultural activities), and also institutions and agencies,



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 7
such as banks, input suppliers, and crop insurance agencies,
concerned with providing facilities and services to the farmers;
(b) assist the FOs with the implementation of seasonal water management
programs and rotational irrigation schedules (in close cooperation
with the members of the agricultural planning teams);
(c) assist the FOs with implementation of maintenance schedules;
(d) identify training needs and make arrangements for farmer training
classes;
(e) help resolve any disputes among the farmers and, if unsuccessful,
alert the competent authorities; and
(f) assist the FOs in any other possible way to ensure the efficient
operation of the scheme.
10.       Qualifications and Duration of Employment.  The minimum
qualification for IOs would be an 0-level certificate. They would be employed
under a contract, either by DAS (for the devolved schemes) or by ID (for non-
devolved schemes). The RSTs would participate in the selection process of all
IOs, clear their appointments, and guide them in their work. Good character
and proven ability to communicate with the farmers would be key requirements
for the IOs. Currently, ID has a surplus of work supervisors. Those who fit
the profile for IOs would be encouraged to apply for the position.
11.       The duration of employment of lOs for minor schemes would be two
years. One IO would serve two adjacent schemes. In medium/major schemes on
average one IO would be employed for about 300 families during the first two
years and about 1,000 families during the third and fourth years.
Improved Operation and Maintenance
12.       Government Involvement.  At present, the range offices of ID and the
irrigation units of the provincial councils are responsible for O&M of the
non-devolved and devolved medium/major schemes, respectively. Previously,
their responsibilities included all activities up to the field channel
turnouts. In compliance with the recent directive from GOSL, FOs are now
taking over all O&M activities at the distributory level. With regard to
minor schemes, farmers have always been responsible for all O&M activities,
with advice provided by DAS. Repairs of headworks in these schemes were
financed and implemented by DAS, depending on availability of funds. In
keeping with the GOSL's final objective of handing over all O&H activities to
the FOs, support by the project would be limited to technical and managerial
guidance. However, repair of major damage caused by floods, or from any other
cuase, would continue to be financed by GOSL. Due to the complexity of some
of the medium/major schemes, it may not be possible for the FOs to execute all
repair works and operational tasks, particularly for the headworks of tank
schemes. In such cases the central or provincial irrigation units would
execute these works against payment by the farmers (see Annex 1, para 1).



_49 -                                  ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7
13.       Reasons for Under-performance.  The deterioration and under-
performance of most irrigation schemes can be attributed to: (a) inadequate
budget allocations for medium/major schemes operated and maintained by GOSL;
(b) ineffective use of available funds in order to meet excessive operational
overheads; (c) over-dependence of farmers on GOSL agencies to undertake
maintenance and rehabilitation works; (d) insufficient participation and lack
of management skills of the farmers in system maintenance; and (e) operational
constraints due to inadequate, or non-existing water management plans, or due
to the deteriorated condition of the schemes and ineffective control
arrangements at the turnouts.
14.       Proposed Plan of Operation.  At the feasibility stage a plan of
operation would be prepared for each scheme. The plan would comprise
maintenance and operation schedules. Farmers' views would be ascertained
during the preconstruction meetings and reflected in the plan. In order to
ensure satisfactory maintenance and optimal use of water, project staff would
provide continuous technical guidance for updating the plan. The command
areas in diversion schemes would be based on the lowest discharge during the
period for which data are available, or, in the absence of such data, the
measured discharge during the preparation phase. On the basis of these data,
realistic cropping patterns and rotational systems would be determined during
the feasibility study. In tank schemes, the cropping patterns and rotational
systems would depend on the remaining storage after the Maha season and only
limited cultivation, or none at all, would be possible during the Yala season.
The maintenance schedule would be divided in two categories, i.e preventive
and periodic maintenance. The operation schedule would comprise activities to
be performed at the headworks and the downstream levels. A description of
activities follows below:
(a)  preventive maintenance would be executed continuously and includes:
(i) slashing of the reservoir and canal bund slopes to remove any
unwanted vegetation; (ii) filling of runnels in t.he reservoir bund
slopes, ar-d potholes on the bund roads; (iii) filling of minor slips
and turfing of exposed sections; (iv) clearing of shrubs in the
intake and outfall spillway canals; (v) filling of scours at
headworks and canal structures, including compaction; (vi) clearing
of debris at sluice intakes and cleaning of trash racks; (vii)
greasing of lifting mechanisms of sluices and turnouts; (viii)
cleaning of toe and lead away drains of downstream filters in tank
schemes; (ix) pevc-nting cattle damage by erecting and maintaining
fences; (x) clearing of debris and man-made obstacles, such as fish
fences, in the drainage canals; and (xi) maintaining reservations
along tank and canal bunds;
(b) periodic maintenance would be executed during the close seasons.
The plan of operation would specify the frequency of activities,
depending on the type of scheme (tank or diversion), activity,
terrain, and infrastructure. The activities would include: (i)
maintaining the design profile of tank and canal bunds; (ii) repair
of downstream protection works of spillways, sluices, drop
structures, and turnouts; (iii) repair of downstream filters in tank



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 7
schemes; (iv) desilting of main, distributory, and field canals; (v)
painting of gates in sluices, weirs, and turnouts; and (vi) repair
or replacement of locking arrangements of turnouts; and
(c) operational activities would be executed continuously, except during
the close season when periodic maintenance works would be done. The
operation schedule would include: (i) a management chart detailing
the composition and responsibilities of project committees for
operational activities from the headworks down to the field level;
(ii) an issue tree describing in a diagrammatic form the
distributory system, together with a scheme plan showing canal
layouts and farm holdings; (iii) the rotational systems to be
adopted for each of the two crop seasons in order to optimize the
use of water, especially during periods of droughts. The rotational
system would specify discharges in liters/second, as well as the
duration of supplies from the headworks and from each turnout of the
main, distributory, and field canals.
15.       Execution of O&M.  The FOs would be fully responsible for all O&M
activities up to the distributory canal level and jointly with central and
provincial irrigation agencies manage the upstream portions of medium/major
schemes. The Distributory Channel Organisation (DCO), comprising separate
farmer groups for each distributory and its field channels, would organize and
execute the activities below the distributary head. The responsibilities of
the different entities are described below.
(a) The Field Channel Organisation (FCO), comprising all the farmers
benefitting from a turnout on the distributory, would be responsible
for the distribution of water among the farmers and maintenance of
the channel. The FCO would have a representative on the DCO who
would also be responsible for water distribution. Any FCOs
receiving water directly fron. the main canal would be attached to
the nearest DCO.
(b) The DCO would be the main functional committee and comprise
representatives of the FCOs. DCOs would be registered under the
Agrarian Services Act and would have responsibility for operation
and maintenance of the entire distributory channel and its field
channels. Each DCO would prepare a detailed O&M plan and execute it
through the combined efforts of the FCOs.
(c) The Project Management Committee (PMC) would include representatives
of the DCOs, government support services, and lending banks. The
PMC would be responsible for planning of O&M of the entire scheme,
and its implementation by DCOs, including the O&M activities for the
headworks and main canal. Depending on the complexity and safety
requirements of medium/major schemes, ID and the provincial
irrigation units may decide to retain the O&M responsibilities for
the headworks and the main canal until the PMC and DCOs become
strong enough to handle the OEM of the entire scheme. In those
cases, the PMC would arrange with the DCOs to provide labor and pay



- 51 -                                 ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 7
for other cash expenditures incurred by ID or t provincial
irigation units, in accordance with arrangement :eferred to in
Annex 1, para 1.
Agricultural Demonstrations
16.       GOSL would continue to promote improvements in cropping practices by
the farmers through national agricultural support programe directed by the
Department of Agriculture ar.d implemented through the prcvincial
administrations. Irrigation schemes would particularly benefit from extension
programs aimed at increasing the efficiency in the use of available water
(rainfall and irrigation) through the cultivation of high-value field crops
other than rice, and timely planting of crops. Other important extension
activities include: (a) increasing labor efficiency by promoting the use of
simple hand-operated implements for seeding, transplanting and weeding; (b)
protection of the environment through judicial use of organic and inorganic
fertilizers, and adoption of integrated pest management practices; and (c)
increasing incomes through the adoption of improvements in post-harvest
operations.
17.       Specific support would be provided under the project in selected
rehabilitation schemes to complement GOSL's country wide extension programs.
The agricultural instructor for each selected scheme, in close consultation
with the FO. would prepare a special program of extension activities which
meets the specific requirements expressed by the farmers. Priority would be
given to the cultivation of high-value field crops and home gardening.   The
agricultural instructors would manage the execution of the scheme-specific
extension programs supported by the project. Available project funds,
estimated at Rs 5,000 (1991 prices) per selected scheme per year, would be
used for procurement of inputs for demonstration plots (about Rs 3,800) and
payment of travel allowances (maximum Rs 100 per month) to the agricultural
instructors.
Logistical Support
18.       The project would provide for travel and subsistence allowances and
for vehicle operating costs for district and divisional level staff of the
provincial support agencies, including the members of the APTs and work
supervisors of ID.



- 52 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 5
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Training and Staff Development
A. Objectives
1.        The proposed training program would ensure that management,
technical and support staff of concerned national agencies and provincial
administrations possessed the knowledge and skills required to motivate and
assist farm families in project supported irrigation schemes to rehabilitate,
operate and maintain their schemes and by the application of improved water
management practices, maintain or improve their standards of living. The
training program would have five sub-objectives:
(a) provision of a comprehensive program of local and overseas staff in-
service training;
(b) recruitment, training and support of institutional organizers (IOs)
who would motivate and guide farmers in each scheme to form farmer
organizations (FOs);
(c) implementation of an intensive training program for elected leaders
of the FOs and FO members;
(d) provision of limited technical assistance to support and increase
project management's capacity to manage training and staff
development; and
*e) support for the expansion and improvement of four training
institutes; procurement of teaching and demonstration equipment; and
purchase of vehicles for the transportation of trainers to and from
field training locations.
B. Training Components
2.        In-service Training for Proiect Staff.  Approximately 1,700
management, technical and support staff posted in Colombo, ID ranges, and
provincial administrations would be involved in the implementation of the
project. Based on a detailed training needs analysis conducted as part of
project preparation, the project training program would, inter alia, provide:
(a) limited overseas training (three masters level degrees) and short
(6-12 week) training programs for 96 technical and training
specialist staff. It is envisioned that most of the short-term
training would take place within the South East Asian countries; and



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 5
(b) in-country training covering a range of topics (Table 1). It would
be offered at Galgamua Irrigation Training Institute (ITI), in
Colombo and, in some cases, on the job. The in-service training
programs would also comprise carefully planned study tours to
observe operation, maintenance and management of successful
irrigation schemes. The study tour groups would include
combinations of senior and junior staff of different disciplines
(engineering, agriculture, institutional development) in order to
obtain the synergy value of discussing problems and solutions
together. This approach to study tours represents a departure from
those conducted in previous projects wherein groups from each staff
level would separately visit schemes without the benefit of
interaction. Training would also be offered to increase the staff's
levels of environmental awareness.
Training for Institutional Organizers
3.        The IOs, a post introduced under the INMAS program, are expected to
act as a catalyst in accelerating the establishment of FOs and to encourage FO
members to participate collectively in irrigation scheme rehabilitation and
O&M, practice improved water management, and assume leadership and decision-
making roles.
4.        Approximately 500 IOs would be recruited and trained under the
project, the exact numbers dependent on the number of schemes entering the
project year by year. Table 1 shows the projected levels of recruitment of
IOs over the seven years of project implementation. The schedule assumes that
some IOs trained during the early project years would roll over to new schemes
during the later years.
5.        IOs would be recruited from candidates who have attained GCE '0'
level (secondary) education, and would undergo a three-week induction training
course at Galgamua ITI, or other suitable sites. On completion of the
training program, the IOs would be posted to the field on the basis of one IO
for every two minor schemes, except during the first year of effectiveness
(1991) when one IO would be attached to each minor scheme. For major and
medium schemes, an average of three to four IOs would be posted to each scheme
during the first year of the schemes' enrollment in the project. After six
months in the field, IOs would undergo a one-week refresher course during
which experiences would be shared and solutions to operational problems
discussed. A further one-week training session would be offered to IOs at the
O&M stage of scheme rehabilitation. In designing the IO induction training
course for NIRP, the Central Management Cell (CMC) would evaluate the 10
training program already developed for the INMAS program and adapt it to the
needs of the project. Trainers for the IO training programs would be selected
from the best qualified and most effective available. A program of training



-54-                           ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 5
for institute staff and resource persons involved in 10 training (engineers,
range officers) would be conducted prior to the induction training for newly
recruited 10 candidates. A total of 26 persons (10 institute staff, 16
resource persons) would participate in this training-of-trainers course
(Table 1).
Training for Elected Representatives of Farmer Organizations
6.        In addition to the guidance and encouragement provided by the 1Os,
elected P0 representatives (president, secretary, treasurer) would receive
additional training in the areas of scheme specific rehabilitation objectives,
O&M, leadership skills, and financial responsibilities. The first two-day
training session for presidents and secretaries would be held at
preconstruction stage; the second lasting three days would be for presidents,
secretaries, and treasurers dealing with O&H and would also cover the
treasurers' financial responsibilities. Two additional training sessions
would be offered for presidents and secretaries during later stages of project
implementation. Each training session would include discussions on
environmental issues relating to scheme O&H, and to farming operations
associated with the scheme. The estimated target group of FO elected
representatives is 2,500. The training schedule for FO elected
representatives is in Table 1.
Farmer Training
7.        The project would organize four one-day training sessions for about
37,000 farmers at preconstruction, O&M, post-O&M and finally prior to project
termination. The training sessions would provide information and knowledge
about the scheme, crop water requirements, and environmental awareness.
Trainers would include agricultural planning team (APT) members, i.e.
development officers, agricultural instructors and technical officers. A
special three-day training course would be offered to improve training
techniques and communications skills for staff involved in farmer training. A
total of 300 trainers would be trained in groups of 20. Estimates of farmer
training for each year of project implementation are given in Table 1.
Equipment for Training and Demonstration
8.        The project would provide for the purchase of training and
demonstration equipment for the Galgamua ITI and for the three in-service
training institutes at Anuradhapura, Banderawela and Galle.
Civil Works and Other Improvements
9.        The Galgamua ITI is the principal in-service training institution
serving the irrigation subsector. Capacity has been limited despite
increasing demands for in-service training.  If the volume of training
generated by the project is to be completed in a timely manner, additional
capacity is required.  The project provides for a self-study center, a



- 55 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 5
computer center and library, a 30 place hostel, a kitchen and staff quarters,
and a recreational facility. In addition, the project provides for
improvements to a test and demonstration plot at Inginimitiya which.would
concentrate on activities relating to hydrology, soils, and land use. In-
service training institutes operated by DAS at Bandarawela, Anuradhapura and
Galle would also receive assistance. No civil works are required at
Banderawela as the facility is already completed but it requires furniture.
The site for the Anuradhapura institute has already been selected and the
design is being prepared. At Galle a site still has to be selected. The
project provides for construction and furniture at both institutes.
Vehicles for Training
10.       The project would procure four double-cab pickup trucks and two 15-
seater microbuses for Galgamua ITI and three 26--seater minibuses for the three
DAS in-service training institutes.
Technical Assistance
11.       A total of 24 staff months of internationally recruited technical
assistance for overall training program management would be provided to the
CMC. An additional 48 staff months of locally recruited technical assistance
to manage the farmer training component would also be provided. The
internationally recruited expert would initiallv be posted to the CMC for 12
continuous months and, thereafter, for three months per year for four years.
Terms of reference for the technical assistance appear in Attachment 1.
C. Management of Training Program
Implementation Plan
12.       The CMC would have overall responsibility for planning and
implementation of the training and staff development program. Given the scope
and volume of training envisaged, the project provides for limited technical
assistance to the CMC to support the preparation and timely delivery of a high
quality program (para. 11). The CMC would assign at least one counterpart to
the consultant for overall management of the training program, and one to the
consultant for farmer training with a view to developing the capacity to
sustain training and staff development program management after completion of
the project. The first task for the consultants and their counterparts would
be to develop a detailed plan for implementation, covering the entire project
period. The implementation plan, to be based on the SAR training program
description, would update the training needs determined at project preparation
and appraisal, and outline an implementation plan for the entire program. The
implementation plan would be updated annually to ensure that new or redundant
training needs were identified and that training programs were updated to
reflect evaluation findings from training activities implemented earlier.



- 56 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 5
Trainers and Training Resource Persons
13.       Over the years, the irrigation sector has benefitted from
considerable training support through IDA and bilateral projects. A reservoir
of suitably qualified persons now exists which can be tapped to serve as a
training resource. In managing and implementing the project's training
program, the CMC would select the most qualified people from training
institutes and agency staff to serve as trainers. The project provides for
training-of_trainers' programs to raise the communications skills level of
those selected.
Training Sites
14.       Staff Training.  The overseas training program, which includes three
masters level degree courses and short courses for technical and training
staff, would be implemented at regional and world-wide locations depending on
the appropriateness of course design and cost. It is likely that a large
proportion of the technical short courses would be conducted in South East
Asian countries. The in-country program includes training activities which
are institution based, on the job, and provided by external agencies. The
program also includes study tours. The CMC would make use of the most
appropriate in-service training institute for the training activity being
offered. Galgamua ITI would be the venue for many of the five-day courses,
especially for senior and middle level staff. However, arrangements may be
made to utilize other institutes should space be unavailable at Galgamua ITI.
Training for IOs would be held at Galgamua ITI, at least for the longer
induction course. Follow-up courses would be offered at Galgamua ITI or other
institutes. Training of FO representatives and farmer groups would be held as
close as possible to the project sites.



- 57                           ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 3
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
A. Training Program Management Specialist
Scope of the Assignment
1.        Achievement of the project's objectives depends on the ability of
Government agency staff to perform a variety of tasks to a high standard. In
addition to technical, engineering, and water management activities, project
staff are expected to help scheme farmers establish farmer organizations (FO)
which would operate and maintain the schemes. The project supports a
comprehensive training program which would require careful planning and
management if it is to have the desired impact on staff and FO performance.
The project would require the services of an experienced and energetic person
to spearhead the management of the project training program. The total
duration of the assignment is 24 months over a period of five years. The
initial assignment would be for 12 months, with follow-up visits of three
months per year during the succeeding four years.
Quaifications and Experience
2.        The specialist would be recruited internationally.  He/she would
hold earned qualifications from a recognized institution and have a minimum of
five years experience in the management of training programs in agriculture
sector projects. The specialist would be fluent in English.
Major Responsibilities
3.        The specialist would provide the guidance necessary for the smooth
and timely implementation of the project training program. He/she woul.d work
closely with counterparts in the CMC and in-service training institutes and
ensure that training program quality is of a high standard.
Main Tasks
4.        The main taks of the specialist are the following:
(a)   prepare with CMC counterparts annual staff in-service and IO
training programs based on actual needs;
(b)   prepare with counterparts detailed plans for annual training program
implementation, including the identification of trainers and
training sites, preparation of teaching aids, and budgeting;



-58 -                            ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 3
(c)   plan, monitor and evaluate training-of-trainers activities;
(d)   monitor staff and IO training program quality and, if necessary,
make proposals for improvement;
(e)   advise CMC on placement of staff in short-term overseas technical
and training courses;
(f)   prepare simple guidelines on training program management for use by
CMC staff as project implementation proceeds;
(g)   describe work programs for the four three-month technical assistance
visits which would follow the initial 12-month assignment; and
(h)   prepare an end-of-assignment report on the 12-month assignment.
B. Farmer Training Program Specialist
Scope of the Assignment
5.        The project aims at increased farmer responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of major, medium, and minor irrigation schemes. The
involvement would be encouraged through the creation of farmer organizations
(FO) and an intensive training program for FO representatives and farmers.
The project would require the service of a qualified and experienced person to
assist with the implementation of the farmer training program. The assignment
would be for 48 months.
Qualifications and Experience
6.        The specialist would be recruited locally.  He/she would hold earned
qualifications from a recognized institution and have a minimum of five years
experience in the planning and implementation of farmers training activities
on a large scale. The specialist would be fluent in English.
Major Responsibilities
7.        The specialist would provide the advice and leadership required to
guarantee the timely implementation of farmer and FO representatives training
programs. He/she would work closely with counterparts in the CMC, training
institutes, ID range offices, and pravincial administrations and ensure that.
all training activities reach an acceptable level of quality.



- 59 -                            ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
Main Tasks
8.        The main tasks of the specialist are the followings
(a) prepare with assigned counterparts annual programs of FO
representatives and farmer training based on the stage of scheme
development and level of farmer participation;
(b) prepare with assigned counterparts detailed plans for annual
training program implementation, including the identification of
trainers and training sites, preparation of training aids, and
budget estimation;
(c) plan, monitor and evaluate training of trainers activities for
farmer training programs;
cd) monitor training programs and evaluate quality. If necessary make
proposals for quality improvement;
(e) prepare simple guidelines for the i-Aplementation of farmer training
programs;
(f) prepare semi-annual farmer training progress reports; and
(g) produce an end-of-as3ignment report.



SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRICATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Training Program
Training Activity                  Number      Unit Cost       Duration       PYI       PY2         PY3        PY4      PY5       PY6        PY7       Location
A. Overseas Training
"asters Program                           3       Re 960.000       12 so                       1           1          1                                    Rgon/EEC
Short-term Technical                     90       Rs 300.000       6 wks                      18          18         18       18        18                 Region
Short-term Trainers                       6       Re 600.000       12 wks                                  2          2        2                           Region/EEC
S.SIJ Conir Tr inin9
Benefit Cost Analysis                    50        Re 500/day      3 days                    25           25
Small Scale Irrigation Projects
Rehabilitation Design                   200        Rs 450/day      5 days                    50           75         75                                    Provincial
ID. Range
OdM Study Tour                          240        Re 450/day      5 days                    60           60         60       60
Production, Income Asessment             SO        Rs 500/day      3 days                    25           25                                               Colombo
Supervision A Quality Control            70        Rs 425/day      3 days                                 50         20
Water Management  IE)                    50        Re 450/day      3 days                     25                     25
Water Manaement TA)                     200        Re 400/day      3 days                    50           50         50       50
Computer Aided D0wign                    40        Re 500/day      5 days                                 20                  20                           In-HouM e
Computer Aided Design                    40        Re 400/day      5 days                                 20         20
Accounting Management                    25        Re 400/day      5 days                    25
Institutional Management                 50        Re 450/day      5 days                                            25       25
Mgt. A Comunications                     50        Rs 450/day      5 days                                            25       25
On Farm 'dater Mgt.                     150        Re 350/day      5 days                                30          30       60        30
Environmental Awareness                 120        Re 400/day      2 days                    30          30         30        30                           In-Hbuse
C.  Institutional Organizers (I0l
Induction Training                      490        Re 250/day      21 days         24        95         190        165        16
Refresher, after 6 months               490        Re 250/day      7 days                   119          190        165       18
Refresher 0 and N                       490        Re 250/day      7 days                                119        190      165        16
Training of Trainers                     26        Re 400/day      5 days          10        16
D. FO Elected Neeresentativeo /
Preconstruction                       5,000        Re 150/day      2 days         270       700       1.600      1.700       750                           Local
0A Training                          7.50n        Rs 150/day      3 days                   400       1.050      2,400    2.550      1.104
Refresher 1                           5.000        Re 150/day      2 days                               270         700    1,600     1.700        750
Refresher 2                           4,250        Re 150/day      2 days                                          270       700     1.600      1,700      Local
E. Farmer Training  b
Preconstruction                                    Re 50/day       1 day          130       350         800        850       368                           Local
Wl                                                 Re 50/day       1 day                    130         350        8OO      850        368                 Local
Fol low-up 1                                       Rs 50/day       1 day                                130        350      80        8d50        368      Local
Follow-up 2                                        Re 50/day       1 day                                            130      350       800        850      Loeal
Training of Trainers                    300        Re 400/day      3 days          40       120          120        20                                     In-service
Training
Institute
La Number of representatives calculated on the basis of one FO for each minor irrigation schema, 15 FOs per medium/mior schem  and 5 0 channel FOs per major/medium aches.
Al 1 2 day training sessions would include FO presidents and secretarie whi le the 3 day session would also include FO treasurers. Annual numbers of Fas i ll depend on entry
of sechemes to the project.
/b Nueber of farmers groups per year calculated on the basis of 15 farmers per group. Minor schemea mould have one group each, medium/major schemes ould have on average 15
F channel groups and 5 0 channel groups each.  A maximum of 37,500 individual farmers would be trained in multiple sessions.
February 5. 1991



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Environmental Protection
Introduction.
1.        In earlier irrigation rehabilitation projects it was generally
assumed that the environmental effects were positive and other than the direct
benefits of rehabilitation, few proposals were prepared relating to
improvement of the environment. Under this project, however, environmental
impact assessment of the appraised schemes was undertaken by the project
preparation team. The recommendations have been included in the detailed
terms of reference for feasibility studies for all schemes, including
formulation of remedies against any adverse consequences the rehabilitation
works may have. Recommendations from the Bank initiated Environmental Actien
Plan would be incorporated in these studies as they become available.
2.        The project aims at minimizing environmentally harmful activities
and would also attempt to alleviate existing problems. The activities
proposed under the project include three categories: (a) minitnizing damage to
the eco-system during construction; (b) reducing existing environmental
problems; and (c) considering environmental problems at the watershed level.
The three categories of activities are discussed below.
Construction.
3.        Potentially harmful activities during construction are excavations
and destruction of vegetation. Borrow pits are often not levelled off upon
completion of the civil works   Water collects in these pits which p..ovide
ideal breeding grounds for mosquitoes. Plants and trees are destroyed and
usually not replaced. To avoid these problems, the contract specifications
would reflect existing regulations and include clauses that would make it
compulsory for the contractor to: (a) consult the beneficiaries in the
selection of borrow pits; and (b) strip and replace the topsoil and level off
the borrow pits under a gradient which permits unimpeded drainage.
Beneficiaries would be encouraged to plant fast growing trees or other plants
in the borrow areas. Trees would also be planted in the canal reservations of
medium and major schemes. Tank embankments would be stripped and, after
resectioning, the topsoil would be replaced before turfing. Strict
supervision by project staff would ensure that the specifications mentioned
above are adhered to. The beneficiaries would be encouraged to monitor the
implementation of ciuil works.



-62 -                               _EX 4
Page 2 of 3
Existing Environmental Problems.
4.        The project would attempt to alleviate existing environmental
problems in connection with: (a) the reservoir and headworks; (b) siltation;
and (c) socio-economic issues.
5.        The main environmental issues concerning the reservoir and headworks
are: (a) erosion cf the embankment and canal bunds; (b) drainage problems at
the toe of the embankment; and (c) cultivation of the reservoir bed resulting
in increased siltation in the canals and pollution of the reservoir by agro-
chemicals. Erosion and dr&inage problems would be corrected by and controlled
after rehabilitation through periodic maintenance. Beneficiary awareness for
proper O&M is a key issue and would be an important part of the training
program of GOSL staff and farmers alike. Although existing legislation
prohibits the cultivation of the tank beds, it is difficult to control as
farmers plant vegetables following the receding water line at the end of the
monsoon. Farmer's awareness in the prudent use of agro-chemicals would be
included in the training program.
6.        Siltation of reservoirs and canals is caused by erosion in the
catchment areas and is a threat to irrigation and irrigation management. It
reduces the reservoir capacity and hence the area under irrigation. The
project includes a monitoring program for silt build-up in a selected sample
of reservoirs after rehabilitation, including about 50 minor and five
medium/major tank schemes. The program would be implemented by the Research
Management Unit to be established in ID with technical support by IIMI (Annex
5). The schemes would be selected from the first and second batch prepared
for implementation.   Taking the tank embankment as the base, spot-level
surveys of the tank bed would be taken every two years towards the end of the
Yala season. Rain gauges would be placed and rainfall monitored. A
preliminary assessment of the catchment area conditions, including vegetation,
soils and gradients would be made and subsequently monitored. Siltation
problems would thus be identified at an early stage and appropriate measures
would be undertaken to alleviate their effects.
7.        The fragmentation of holdings and the reduction of plot size due to
population pressure is an important socio-economic issue which interferes with
the adoption of sound water management practices. The project would include a
study to examine the technical possibility of, and farmers interest in, land
consolidation or other ways to overcome this problem. This study would also be
conducted by the Research Management Unit. In co-operation with DAS, three
schemes covering in total about 100 ha would be selected. The main selection
criterion would be that farmers show great interest in improving farm
management through reallocation or pooling of their landholdings. Key staff to
execute che study would include a socio-economist, an irrigation engineer and
a cadastral surveyor of the Survey Department. After discussions with the
beneficiaries and agreeing on a course of action, a land consolidation or land
pooling pilot project would be prepared. To this end, topographical, soils
and cadastral surveys to a map scale of 1:2,000 would be executed.
Subsequently, a new land plan and technical plan would be prepared and
implemented as agreed with the beneficiaries. Preparatory works would take



- 63-                              AEX 4
Page 3 of 3
about one year and the pilot schemes would be implemented during one dry
season.
Sub-basin ARRroach.
8.        Ideally the entire hydrological system of a basin or sub-basin
should be studied whilst planning rehabilitation of irrigation projects. In
the dry zone the small tanks are typically part of a larger system, called
cascade, which are hydrologically interdependent. Three issues deserve
special attention, i.e. scheme selection, reforestation, and watershed
management. The project would consider all small tanks which are part of a
cascade, and ensure that the planning and design of the rehabilitation works
recognize their interdependence. In such cases also the watershed management
would be given high priority and specific measures would be proposed and
implemented which would optimize the performance of the individual schemes.
However, the issue of reforestation of the catchment areas at a large scale is
beyond the scope of this project.
Training.
9.        Environmental awareness training would be actively pursued
throughout project implementation. Irrigation engineers would participate in
an awareness raising course planned to be offered four times during project
implementation. Environmental awareness would be included in the training
program for IOs, FO representatives, and farmers, ensuring a broad coverage of
the topic reaching into the farm families. Training-of-trainers courses would
also include the topic and prepare trainers for the inclusion of environmental
awareness in all formal courses.



- 64 -                                 ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 9
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Institutional Support and Studies
A. Irrigation Research Management Unit
Introduction
1.        Since the late seventies it has been recognized that the benefits of
irrigation projects have not been proportional to the investments made due to:
(a) unsatisfactory O&M resulting from inadequate participation by the farmers
and lack of funding; (b) use of questionable hydrological planning parameters
for determining available water resources; and (c) mono cropping of paddy in
both the Maha and Yala seasons, without diversifying into other field crops,
even when soil and drainage conditions are favorable. Research is an
important means to address these issues. Therefore, the project would
support, over four years (1992-95), the establishment of a Research Management
Unit (RMU) in ID to manage and implement field-based research of relevant
institutional, technical, and agricultural aspects of irrigation. Technical
assistance would be provided by the Sri Lanka Field Operations Unit of the
International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI).
objectives
2.        The irrigation research management component of the project would:
(a)   assist ID to establish a RMU and foster its capacity to identify
research needs, carry out or contract for research, evaluate
results, and adopt them for implementation;
(b)   support a research program which yields results of immediate
interest to the irrigated agriculture sector and provides a training
ground for RMU staff; and
(c)   contribute to the quality of planning and implementation of NIRP.
Activities
3.        All activities by RMU would be overseen by a Research Advisory
Committee, to be chaired by the State Secretary of Irrigation. Members of the
committee would include representatives from ID, IMD, DAS, Department of
Agriculture, CMC, and IIMI. IIMI would appoint a Technical Adviser.
Activities to be undertaken by RMU and IIMI are described below.
4.        Institutional Support for RMU.  In the first year of establishment
of RMU, the following institutional requirements would be jointly developed by
ID and IIMI: (a) RMU mandate and strategic plan; (b) organizational structure
and staffing policy, followed by recruitment, orientation, and training of



- 65 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 9
personnel; (c) research procedures, policies, and plans; and (d) a work plan
which includes a strong monitoring and evaluation component. RMU's activities
would specifically be directed to generate innovations, identify research
needs, and interpret and adapt research findings to improve the performance of
Sri Lanka's irrigation systems. RMU would examine: (a) the institutional
framework for irrigation; (b) procedures of water distribution for equity,
efficiency, and productivity; and (c) prospects of new technologies for future
investments. IIMI would provide support to RMU for conceptual,
administrative, and research components. IIMI's role would be as a catalyst
and guide. Decisions on RMU's future functions and operations would be made
by ID.
5.        Development and Implementation of a Research Program.  Assisted by
IIMI staff, RHU would:
(a)   undertake rapid assessments, particularly to obtain preliminary data
for research selection and to train RMU staff;
(b)   carry out adaptive research to test institutional, technical, and
institutional innovations. Field offices would be established to
carry out this research, as required;
(c)   monitor and evaluate in a small sample of schemes, improvements
implemented under NIRP to ascertain their acceptance, benefits and
costs, and long-term sustainability;
(d)   measure the cost effectiveness of innovations identified in the
research program, as required; and
(e)   record and analyze the lessons learned in establishing the RMU and
its early operations.
IIMI, working together with RMU staff, would:
(a)   conduct a series of ten workshops to disseminate research findings
and solicit inputs to the program; and
(b)   offer eight one-year research fellowships at IIMI.
6.        Contribution to NIRP Planning and Implementation.  The head of RMU
and the IIMI Technical Adviser would attend key meetings of the PCC and the
CMC to ensure that RMU and the research programs are well represented and
coordinated. They would provide inputs to the project, based on in-country
and international research findings of IIHI's worldwi.   program.
Outputs
7.        It is expected that RMU would be well established at the end of the
four-year period, and would be functioning as an initiator and evaluator of
research which studies institutional development, water management, system
management, water resources utilization, catchment hydrology and modelling,



- 66 -                                 ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 9
siltation, land consolidation and crop diversification topics associated with
irrigated agriculture. RMU staff would be able to undertake rapid appraisals,
select sites and samples, structure research projects, undertake and supervise
field work, and analyze and write up results. In the longer run, IIMI would
share the lessons learned with the irrigation agencies of other countries.
Composition of IIMI Team and Logistical Support
8.        IIMI would provide an internationally recruited Technical Adviser
(39 staff months) with strong irrigation research credentials (an
agricultural economist, an irrigation engineer, or a social/management
scientist), and internationally recruited short term specialists (33 staff
months) in the fields of irrigation engineering, social and/or management
sciences, agricultural economics, agronomy, and agricultural engineering.
Local staff would include one research associate and two research officers.
The project would also provide for vehicles. The total cost is estimated at
about US$2.0 million, including IIMI's overhead costs (rent, utilities,
management support).
Reporting and Evaluation
9.        An annual report would be produced at the end of each of the first
three years and the final report at the end of the fourth year. Publications
would include country papers, technical papers, working papers, and training
modules.  The annual work plan and budget for the first year would be
completed within the first two months of commencement. Subsequent annual work
plans and budgets would be prepared before June 30 of the preceding year.
External specialists would conduct a mid-term evaluation at the end of the
second year and a final evaluation at the end of the fourth year.
B. Dam Safety Unit
Introduction
10.       Regular inspections, surveillance monitoring, and preventive
maintenance of storage dam infrastructure, are necessary to reduce the risk of
failures. An analysis of past dam failures indicates that the risks are
greater in dams over 50 years of age, particularly earth dams. In Sri Lanka
the dam of the Kantalai scheme failed a few years ago, and signs of distress
have been observed in other major dams. No records of failures have been kept
for dams of minor schemes. However, analysis of failed dams indicates that
the risks could have been reduced if stresses had been detected earlier and
preventive measures taken. The failure of the Kantalai dam has increased
public awareness of dam safety and has prompted GOSL to reactivate
surveillance operations, and also to allocate more funds for strengthening of
headworks. The measures taken to date by GOSL include: (a) establishment of
an expert committee to carry out frequent inspections of major dams; (b)
assignment of specific surveillance responsibilities to staff of ID's range
and divisional offices; and (c) a comprehensive study by a Consultant to
review the effectiveness of present dam safety procedures and to prepare
recommendations for introducing a workable and effective system. To date, the



- 67 -                                 ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 9
Consultant's recommendations have not been implemented, the expert committee
has not functioned effectively, and irrigation field staff continue to operate
without the required instruments, without an effective monitoring system, and
without a program for preventive work.
11.       The Ceylon Electricity Board is responsible for the safety of
multipurpose dams and the Mahaweli Authority for dams in the Mahaweli
projects. The ID is responsible for the safety of all other medium/major dams
in Sri Lanka. In order to assist ID in this work, the project would support
the establishment of a Dam Safety Unit (DSU).
Support by the Proiect
12.       The DSU would be set up under the Engineering Materials Division of
ID. The Unit would be headed by a Chief Engineer and staffed by two
irrigation engineers (experienced in instrumentation and engineering
materials, respectively), four research assistants, two technical assistants
and one draughtsman. Specialist advice would be given by consultants of the
CMC. The project would finance: (a) staff subsistence and travel allowances;
(b) office and vehicle operation costs; and (c) procurement of surveillance
equipment and vehicles.
Activities
13.       The DSU would:
(a)   update the inventory of medium/major and minor dams maintained by
the ID and the provincial irrigation units (or DAS), respectively,
and evaluate the hazard ratings following guidelines given in the
Consultant's report;
(b)   prepare a priority list of vulnerable schemes and obtain a condition
report of these schemes from the ID range or provincial irrigation
offices;
(c)   inspect the priority schemes, prepare a program of preventive works
(including instrumentation), initiate implementation, and monitor
progress;
(d)   review the recent guidelines for safety surveillance of reservoirs
issued by ID and update or amend, as necessary, ID Circular no. 42
of 1978. Using these guidelines, prepare a program for surveillance
of minor schemes;
(e)   monitor progress of the surveillance program and take corrective
actions, when necessary, to ensure its effectiveness;
(f)   conduct regular visits to dams reported to be under stress, and
check data collection and the effect of preventive works;



- 68 -                                  ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 9
(g)   for dams under extensive stress conditions, implement a program of
regular measurements. Process and interpret the observed data and
propose remedial measures to minimize or eliminate stress, including
improvements of design parameters, if appropriate and feasible;
(h)   review proposals for new dams for sufficiency of dam safety
monitoring aids; and
(i)   establish a management information system and produce periodical
reports for use by ID management.
Equipment and Vehicles.
14.       The project would provide: (a) concrete equipment: a portable core
drill, two calibrated crack monitors, two pulse velocity measurement meters,
two multipurpose strain gauges, a detection cover meter for steel
reinforcement, a crack detection microscope, a test hammer, and a portable
compressor; (b) soils equipment: a lateral inclinometer for measuring lateral
movement of earthworks and structures, a power auger and extension rods, a
water level indicator to measure levels in bore holes; (c) inspection
equipment: a trolley-mounted video camera with propulsion from suitable
conveyor system for inspection of sluices; and (d) vehicles: a four-wheel
drive vehicle and a double-cab pickup.
C. Quality Control Unit
Introduction
15.       Ineffective supervision and inadequate testing of construction
materials frequently results in substandard irrigation works in Sri Lanka and
elsewhere. The available resources in ID are over-extended. Sufficient
numbers of qualified technical staff are available to meet the needs of
existing and future projects, but logistical support, such as field
laboratories, testing equipment, and funds for operating expenses are
inadequate, resulting in substandard work.
Support by the Project
16.       The project would enhance the capacity of ID's existing Quality
Control Unit and support the establishment of nine regional field
laboratories. These would be located at Kurunegala, Kirindi Oya (Southern
Province), Anuradhapura, Monaragala, Vavuniya, Kilinochchi, Ampara,
Trincomalee, and Kandy. The laboratories in Vavuniya and Kilinochchi would be
established after security has been restored in those districts. In addition
to improvements to five existing units and construction of new buildings for
four units, the project would finance operating expenses of quality cont.ol
staff, and procure equipment and vehicles. Additional equipment would be
provided for the central laboratory in Colombo which would also service
schemes in Western Province. Engineers, research officers, and soil testers
would be trained under the project's training program.



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 9
Activities
17 ~    The Quality Control Unit would:
(a)   assisted by CMC, conduct a construction quality awareness program
among technical assistants, work supervisors, and farmers;
(b)   prepare guidelines on quality control for use by technical staff;
(c)   assist in the identification of borrow areas and conduct field
tests, including interpretation of test results;
(d)   give technical guidance on quality control in a sample embankment
section to be undertaken as a demonstration prior to the
commencement of full scale construction of earth dams;
(e)   advise on construction materials for concrete structures; and
(f)   give directions on frequency and specifications for the collection
of test samples, maintaining of field records, testing of samples,
and follow-up of test results.
Equipment and Vehicles
18.       The project would provide: (a) ten mechanical analysis stirrers; (b)
a consolidation test apparatus; (c) an automatic mechanical soil compacter;
(d) an air meter for measuring air content in concrete; (e) a penetration test
machine; (f) ten compression testing machines; (g) 15 digital soil moisture
meters; (h) two strata meters; (i) two ultrasonic concrete testers; (j) 15
electronic precision balances; (k) 15 moisture density gauges; (1) a vacuum
pump; (m) accessories for the above items; and (n) 12 double-cab pickups, two
four-wheel drive vehicles, and 36 motor-cycles.
D. Hydrological and Water Management Study
Introduction
19.       The VIRP emphasized the introduction of effective water management
systems. However, it was also recognized that efforts to optimize the use of
available water resources depend not only on an effective water management
plan but also on a proper evaluation of available water resources. In order
to expand the physical resource data base, and to improve quality of planning
parameters, VIRP supported a study of the hydrology of tank schemes in the dry
zone. The study was designed to: (a) build up the data base for planning of
tank schemes; (b) determine the hydrology of tank catchment and command areas
and formulate cropping patterns to match the estimates of probable water
availability; (c) plan for improved water management and agricultural
production under a given water supply; (d) categorize tanks into broad groups
according to productivity and reliability; and (e) modify criteria for
selection of schemes where such changes were justified. The final report will
be submitted shortly, and relevant recommendations reflected in the water



-70 -                                   ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 9
management plans to be prepared under NIRP. The project would support a
similar study for diversion schemes.
ObJectives
20.       The objective of the study is to identify, through a diagnostic
approach, the resources available and problems associated with diversion
schemes.  The study would includes (a) a physical resource evaluation; (b)
development of a model to predict water availability; and (c) development of
suitable cropping patterns for efficient use of available land and water
resources.
Activities
21.       A team led by an agronomist and supported by an engineer, a water
management specialist, and a socio-economist, would undertake the activities
described below.
(a)   Development of a Model to Predict Water Availability.  The forecast
of water availability from wet and dry season flows would help
farmers and project staff prepare seasonal cultivation plans. Three
representative diversion schemes would be selected for the study.
Relief, rainfall, runoff, infiltration, and hydrological parameters
would be monitored in each catchment area. Stream flow from each
catchment would also be monitored. A model would be developed using
these ir.formation to predict stream flow.
(b)   Development of Cropping Patterns.  The traditional cropping patterns
of paddy-paddy and paddy-fallow may be an inefficient use of
utilization of land and water, particularly during the dry season,
or in areas of well drained soils. It has also been observed that
productivity and fertilizer response by paddy in the high, medium,
and low areas in the mid-country are different, probably due to
varying hydrological conditions. Under these conditions, suitable
crop rotations could improve productivity. In addition, land
productivity could be improved by introducing suitable cropping
patterns to match water availability and land/soil types. Water
availability and cultivable areas in the three sample schemes would
be determined. Several cropping patterns, including high value
crops, would be determined, using crop water requirements and water
availability data. These cropping patterns would be evaluated in
field tests for productivity per unit of land and for socio-economic
factors.
(c)   Data Collection.  The following data would be collected in the three
sample schemes: (a) rainfall data from existing stations, or new
stations if no station existed previously; (b) command area data to
be determined from aerial photographs or topographical surveys,
supplemented by information from the farmers; (c) soil types; (d)
conveyance losses; (e) percolation and seepage losses; (f) evapo-



- 71 -                                 ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 9
transpiration using climatic data; (g) water table behavior; and (h)
runoff.
Reports
22.       The study would commence in 1992 and continue to the end of 1996.
The annual work program and budget for 1992 would be submitted before the end
of 1991. Subsequent annual work programs and budgets would be submitted by
June 30 of each preceding year. Bi-annual progress reports would include
physical and financial progress, problems encountered, and suggestions to
resolve them. An interim report would be submitted at the end of the third
year and would include preliminary study findings. The final report w.s d be
submitted within three months of completion of the study.
E. Socio-economic Study
Introduction
23.       In order to assess project impact and draw lessons for future
operations, two different series of studies would be conducted over the seven-
year project period. Firstly, benchmark and evaluation studies would be
conducted in some 45 representative schemes located throughout the country.
Information would be collected from statistical and other existing sources,
and through interviews with community leaders and a representative sample of
50 farm households in each selected scheme. Draft terms of reference and the
modalities for execution of one benchmark and two evaluation studies are
described in Annex 6. Secondly, a continuous in-depth socio-economic study of
a sample of ten schemes located in the Central and North-Western provinces
would be conducted. Details on the second study are given below.
Objectives
24.       The main objective of the socio-economic study is in-depth
monitoring and analysis of changes due to the project. Specific subjects the
study would cover include: (a) pre-rehabilitation status of the selected
scheme, including condition of irrigation facilities and cropping systems,
production and incomes; (b) changes due to the rehabilitation works and She
adoption of improved water management and maintenance practices; (c)
participation of the farmers in planning and execution of rehabilitation and
maintenance works; (d) functioning of FOs and other village-level
institutions; (e) effectiveness of GOSL and provincial support agencies; and
(f) environmental effects of the project, both positive and negative.
Methodology
25.       The study would start in three schemes in 1992 and would be expanded
to six schemes in 1993 and ten schemes in 1994. Relevant data would be
collected and continuously updated during successive crop seasons through
field observations and visits to farmers. The data would cover four broad
areas. General information would include, amongst others, data on population,
land use, physical facilities, and supporting services operating in the



- 72 -                                  ANNEX S
Page 9 of 9
schemes. Farm production and incomes would cover crop areas and production,
availability and use of inputs (farm labor, fertilizers, farm power, etc.),
sales and home consumption of farm produce. Information on production and
incomes from land outside the scheme and off-farm income would also be
collected in order to facilitate the preparation of comprehensive farm
household budgets. Irrigation data would cover availability of water,
condition of supply and distribution facilities, on-farm water management,
farmer participation in rehabilitation and maintenance works, problems
perceived by the farmers and proposed solutions, etc. Institutional data
would cover interaction of farmers with agricultural support agencies,
participation in farmer organizations, sources and use of information on
marketing and prices, etc.
26.       Tables would be developed to illustrate various levsls of resource
use, cropping intensities, production, incomes, and cross linkages among
different variables. Qualitative assessments would be made on the functioning
of irrigation facilities, farmer participation in maintenance and management
of the schemes, functioning of farmer organizations, effectiveness of
agricultural support services, and the environmental aspects of the scheme.
27.       Research assistants would be posted permanently in the schemes for
the duration of the study (one research assistant would collect data for two
schemes).
Reporting
28.       The study team would prepare the following reports:
(a)   an inception report within two months after the start of the study
which would include the proposed work plan, staffing of the team,
and proposed formats of reports to be submitted;
(b)   quarterly progress reports;
(c)   annual reports which would include preliminary findings and
conclusions and an updated work plan;
(d)   occasional working papers:
(e)   a draft final report two months before the end zf the study period;
and
(f)   a final report at the end of the study period.



73 -                                 ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 11
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance for Project Implementation and Evaluation
This Annex provides draft Terms of Reference for consultants
services to: (a) assist the implementing agencies with planning and
implementation of rehabilitation and improvement works, and improved operation
and maintenance practices in about 1,000 minor and about 60 medium/major
schemes, covering about 37,500 ha (Section I); and (b) conduct benchmark and
evaluation studies in a representative sample of about 30 minor and 15
medium/major schemes (Sention II).
I. Project Planning and Implementation
A. Scope of Consultant Services
1.01      The consultants services would cover the following:
(a) screening of all schemes proposed for rehabilitation;
(b) preparation of feasibility studies for medium/major schemes;
(c) technical review of feasibility studies for minor schemes;
(d) monitoring of preparation of detailed engineering documents for all
schemes;
(e) construction monitoring and quality control for all schemes;
(f) assistance to the Dam Safety Unit to be established in the
Irrigation Department (ID);
(g) technical support for improved O&M for all schemes;
(h) institutional support to the farmer organizations (FO);
(i) management support to the Central Management Cell (CMC); and
(j) preparation of guidelines for various project activities.
B. Responsibilities of the Consultant
Screening
1.02      The Consultant would review all identification reports prepared by
tne ID's range offices (for schemes remaining under central government
management) and the provincial councils (for devolved schemes) in order to



- 74                                   ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 11
assess whether the proposals are technically sound and in compliance with the
scheme selection criteria. The Consultant would particularlys
(a) carry out spot checks, especially for tank schemes, to determine the
accuracy of limited topographical surveys undertaken to estimate
preliminary costs;
(b) review all proposed works, unit prices, quantities, and cost
estimates, particularly for schemes which only marginally satisfy
the cost criteria, and where possible in consultation with field
staff and the farmers amend the proposals to include cost effective
systems;
(c) check if there are any existing or potential environmental problems
in the -chemes or their basins which need to be studied in detail
during the feasibility stage in order to define remedial actions;
particular attention would be given to embankment erosion and
seepage, drainage congestion, adverse effects on other schemes in
the basin, and degradation of the catchment area;
(d) assess the commitment of the farmers, their awareness of and views
on the proposed works, and their willingness to contribute part of
the investment cost and take over the responsibility for O&H of the
scheme after completion of the works; and
(e) assess the effectiveness of agricultural support services
(extension, credit) and availability of inputs and storage,
processing, marketing, and transport facilities.
Feasibility Studies
1.03      Mediua/maior Schemes.  The Consultant would:
(a) review all relevant previous engineering, agriculture and economic
studies, reports and data, including studies on any ongoing or
projected hydrological changes that may effect the schemes;
(b) determine the technical causes of under-performance and/or other
problems; identify all water resources, water demand, and flood
risks;
(c) determine all necessary repairs and replacement of existing
structures and/or construction of new structures for the headworks
and downstream parts of the system in order to restore and/or
improve irrigation, drainage and, where applicable, salinity
control; the preliminary proposals would include cost estimates and
an O&M plan;
(d) explain to farmers the preliminary proposals for rehabilitation and
improvement works, the management system, the investment and O&M
costs, and the contributions to be made by them; discuss with the
l



-75-                                   ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 11
field staff of GOSL and farmers the activities and effectiveness of
the supporting services, and the availability of inputs and other
facilities; identify constraints and make appropriate
recommendations;
(e) evaluate all available agro-economic data and conduct farm surveys
to collect up-to-date and accurate information related to soils,
farm sizes and tenancy arrangements, present land use, cropping
patterns, cropping intensity, crop yields, cultivation costs, lan.d
size, farm incomes etc.;
(f)  conduct a detailed survey of the environmental problems identified
during the screening process and prepare proposals and preliminary
designs for remedial measures to eliminate or minimize these
problems;
(g) identify the required topographical surveys and geotechnical
investigations, and monitor the progress and quality of execution of
these works, conducted by the range and provincial irrigation units;
(h) prepare for each scheme a feasibility report, including a
preliminary design of the works, an O&M plan, proposed management
system, cost estimates, and economic analysis; and
(i) together with GOSL staff, the engineering and institutional staff of
the Consultant would visit the site and explain to the farmers the
proposals, with costs (investment and recurrenc), any changes to the
management system discussed earlier, options for farmers'
contributions to the investment cost; the views of the FOs would be
reflected in the draft feasibility report.
1.04      Minor Schemes.  The Consultant would provide guidance to the
provincial irrigation units which would prepare the feasibility plars. The
Consultant would review the completed plans, undertake field checks, and meet
with the FOs to determine their acceptance of the planG.
Engineering Documentation
1.05      The Consultant would monitor progress of preparation of designs,
construction drawings, quantity estimates, and tender documents, and recommend
timely action to resolve any constraints which may adversely affect the agreed
implementation schedule.
Construction Monitoring_and Quality Con~.rol
1.06      The Consultant would:
(a) monitor physical and financial progress of rehabilitation and
improvement works and advice the Project Director on issues
affecting implementation and achievement of targets;



-76                                     ANNEX 6
Page 4 af 11
(b) monitor the quality of works;
(c) check and certify reimbursement claims against civil works
contracts, and monitor disbursements;
(d) for medium/major schemes, prepare completion reports, including as-
built drawings; and
(e) for minor schemes, check the reports prepared by the provincial
irrigation units.
1.07      Monitoring of progress would comprise: (a) preparation of work
programs and annual budgets; and (b) follow-up on preconstruction activities
such as land required for construction, topographical surveys, geotechnical
investigations, borrow area investigations, detailed engineering
documentation, end contract awards.
1.08      Monitoring of quality would be conducted by the Consultant's
Regional Support Teams (RST) with assistance from the CMC headquarters staff,
if required. The Consultant would carry out field inspections at critical
stages of construction, including establishment of reference points for
setting out works, foundations, stockpiling of construction materials,
concrete pours, fabrication and erection of form work, reinforcements, and
compaction of back fills at structures. Visits would also be made during
earthwork filling for embankments. The Consultant would also discuss his
findings with the field staff of GOSL and the management staff at the range
and provincial level. Findings would be copied to the CHC. The regional
laboratories of ID (to be strengthened under the project) would provide
services for conducting tests on earthworks and concrete works. The RSTs
would work closely with the staff of the regional laboratories. The
specialist staff of the Consultant would provide advice as required in
equipping the laboratories and conducting field tests.
Dam Safety
1.09      A Dam Safety Unit would be established in the Irrigation Department.
The project would provide instruments needed for detecting possible dam
failures. The Consultant would provide advisory services and assistance to
the Unit on subjects specifically referred to him and arrange for relevant
expertise, as needed.
Technical Support for Improved Operation and Maintenance
1.10      The Consultant would:
(a) prepare a simplified manual for operation staff; and
(b)  monitor the system of water distribution and advise the FOs ,n
corrective measures to ensure optimum utilization of water.



-77-                                    ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 11
Institutional Support to Farmer Organizations
1.11      The Consultant would:
(a)  assist DAS and ID staff in the selection of institutional organizers
(IO);
(b) assist in the formal and on-the-job training of IOs;
(c) guide the IOs in the formation of FOs, including establishment of
management systems, to ensure their effective functioning;
(d)  together with technical project staff and IOs, participate in
initial meetings of FOs to discuss and make arrangements for their
participation in rehabilitation and improvement works, and for
implementation of improved scheme maintenance plans and efficient
water management practices;
(e)  provide follow-up support and guidance in the areas listed under (d)
to the FOs (through the IOs), as needed;
(f) monitor the performance of the FOs, identify any problems which may
arise, and propose solutions; and
(g)  monitor the effectiveness of all agricultural support services in
the scheme areas, identify any shortcomings, and propose remedial
actions.
Management Support
1.12      The Consultant would assist the CMC in the following areas:
(a)  prepare annual work programs and budgets for the project;
(b)  annually review the capacity of the provincial administrations to
carry out the work assigned to them in accordance with acceptable
time schedules and quality standards, and propose solutions to
anticipated problems in this regard; and
(c)  establish a management information system at each of the regional
units which would be networked to the system at the CMC office. The
syetem would provide information on annual budget allocations
compared with appraisal estimates, physical and financial progress
of construction works, topographical surveys and geotechnical
investigations. The system would also provide information on
contractors and FOs, nrogress of disbursements, feasibility studies,
and detailed engineering documentation. Any issues would be brought
to the notice of the Project Director in a timely manner to ensure
that targets are achieved.



-78 -                                   ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 11
Preparation of Guidelines
1.13      The Consultant would during the first year prepare, and bi-annually
update, guidelines to:
(a) conduct hydrological studies covering rainfall and yield, reservoir
operation, estimation of design flood, and flood routing;
(b)  conduct environmental assessments;
(c) design headworks and canal systems;
(d) prepare construction drawings, rate analysis, unit rates, and cost
estimates;
(e) prepare farm budgets, and methodology for economic analysis during
the feasibility studies of medium/major schemes;
(f) assist the IOs in organizing and motivating FOs;
(g) prepare a simplified plan of operation for use of FOs which will
include: (i) O&M activities at the headworks and canals to ensure
adequate water supplies and prevent deterioration of infrastructure
due to ineffective maintenance; and (ii) scheduling of water issues;
and
'h) update formats on: (i) identification and feasibility studies; and
*ii) handing over of completed works for operation by the FOs.
C.  Comi2 sition and Organization of Consultants Team and Period of Services
1.14      The Consultant's team would be located in the CMC in Colombo. with
eight RSTs at the provincial level. The team leader of the Consultant would
be in overall control of the Consultant's staff. The team would include
specialists in planning and design of engineering works, operation and
maintenance, agronomy, sociology, environment, and institutinnal development.
The RSTs would be manned by a construction engineer, an institutional
specialist, and a senior technical assistant or an experienced mid-level
engineer. The Consultant's services would commence in about December 1991 and
continue till the end of December 1997. The project would provide vehicles,
office and d.awing office equipment, including computers. The Consultant
would be responsible for providing adequate support staff for the field and
office operations, including incidentals such as O&M of vehicles, printing,
stationery, per diem, etc. Total requirements are estimated as follows:



- 79 -                                  ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 11
Category                                                 Staff Months
Internationally Recruited Professionals
Team LeaderiIrrigation Management Specialist                 42
Short Term Specialists                                        8
Total                                                        50
Locally Recruited Professionals
Senior Planning and Design Engineer                          72
Planning and Design Engineers (3)                           120
Construction Engineers (8)                                  540
Agronomist                                                   30
Sociologist                                                  24
Agro-economist                                               24
Institutional Specialist                                     72
Environmentalist                                             18
O&H Specialist                                               72
Short Term Specialists                                       48
Total                                                     1,020
Locally Recruited Mid-level Staff
Mid-level Engineers/Technical Assistants                    540
Institutional Development Officers                          540
Total                                                     1,080
D. Reporting Requirements
1.15      The Consultant would keep the Project Director informed on the
progress of project implementation, including any problems which may cause
delay, and proposed solutions to these problems. The Consultant would submit
the following reports:
(a) an inception report, three months after the start of the
Consultant's assignment. This report would include:
(i) an analysis of the project budget and work plan for the first
Lwo years;
(ii) comments on the organizational set-up of the new provincial
irrigation units, particularly their capacity to plan and
design the minor schemes;
(iii) program for the feasibility studies and detailed documentation
required, with a network diagram for the full project period
and bar charts for the first and second years;
(iv) program of activities of the RSTs with detailed
responsibilities for the senior orofessionals;
(v) preliminary proposal for the management information system;



-80 -                                   ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 11
(vi) comments on the engineering aspects of the 17 schemes for which
documents have been completed, and the changes proposed, if
any;
(vii) comments on the management system proposed for the 17 schemes,
identification of any issues, and recommendations for changes,
as required; proposals for any deviation from agreements
reached earlier would be discussed with farmers and their views
included in the report;
(viii) updated formats for identification and feasibility
studies; and
(ix) form. L3 for maintaining field records to ensure construction
quality and facilitate monitoring of progress;
(b)  brief monthly and detailed quarterly reports within two weeks of the
end of the reporting period;
(c)  draft annual work programs and budgets to be submitted in time for
inclusion in the GOSL budget;
(d)  guidelines for the preparation of preliminary proposals and
feasibility studies for all schemes; these would be updated bi-
annually;
(e)  a design and construction manual at the end of the first year; and
(f) an operations manual in a form which could be utilized by field
staff and farmers, at the end of the third year.
II. Benchmark and Evaluation Studies
Introduction
2.01      Benchmark and evaluation studies would be undertaken in a
representative sample of 30 minor and 15 medium/major schemes in order to
assess the project's impact and draw lessons for similar future operations.
The studies would cover the engineering, agricultural, environmental, socio-
economic, and institutional aspects of the selected schemes.
Benchmark Studies
2.02      Benchmark studiec would be conducted in order to assess scheme
conditions prior to rehabilitation and introduction of improved O&M practices.
The study team would review and verify all relevant data for the scheme,
including those compiled for the identification and feasibility reports.
Additional data would be collected through interviews with farmers, local
leaders, and representatives of support agencies.



- 81 -                                 ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 11
2.03      Engineering data would include: (a) command area of the scheme; (b)
inventory and operational condition of headworks (reservoir, dam or diversion
weir, sluices, spillway), irrigation distribution system (canals, sluices,
turn-outs), and drainage facilities; (c) incidence and impact of floods and
droughts during the previous five years; and (d) maintenance and repair works
undertaken during last five years (cost, financing, execution).
2.04      Agricultural data would include: (a) crop areas, yields, and
production during preceding year and average years; (b) cultivation practices.
including use of inputs; (c) crop losses during previous five years due to
floods, droughts, failure of irrigation facilities, etc.; and (d) other
agricultural activities, if any (livestock, cropping outside the command area
including home gardening, fisheries, etc.).
2.05      Socio-economic data would include: (a) family size and composition;
(b) land distribution, tenancy, and fragmentation; (c) farm incomes and
expenditures (separately for scheme related and other farm activities); (d)
sales of farm produce; and (e) off-farm income, if any.
2.06      Institutional data would include: (a) details on existence and
functioning of formal or informal farmer organizations in the scheme area; (b)
management system for O&M of the scheme, including arrangements for
distribution of water and farmer participation in maintenance works; and (c)
presence and effectiveness of private and public agricultuiral support services
(inputs, marketing, processing, credit, transport, extension, credit).
2.07      Environmental dat.a would include: (a) embankment erosion and
seepage; (b) drainage congestion; (c) reservoir siltation and cultivation in
the reservoir bed; and (d) degradation of the catchment area.
2.08      In general, the study team should focus on technical or other
reasons for under-performance of the scheme, seek the farmers' opinions on
possible remedies of the problems, and ascertain their views on possibilities
and priorities for further development. In order to provide a basis for post-
project evaluation of the project works, the study team would prepare probable
future crop production estimates should the proposed rehabilitation and
improvement works not be executed.
Evaluation Studies
2.09      Evaluation studies would be conducted in order to assess the
effectiveness of project activities and determine their impact cn production,
incomes, and employment. All relevant information collected during the
benchmark studies would be updated using the same methodology and samples of
respondents, to the extent possible. The evaluation studies would
specifically:
(a) identify technical reasons for under-performance of the schemes, if
any, due to inadequacies in planning, design, or construction of
rehabilitation and improvement works and recommend remedies;



- 82 -                                 ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 11
(b) identify environmental problems and recommend remedies;
(c) identify deficiencies in the institutional arrangements for managing
the schemes, if any, causing poor water distribution or maintenance
practices and recommend alternative arrangements;
(d) assess the effectiveness of the farmer organizations and GOSL
support services and suggest improvements, where appropriate; and
(e) identify the potential for further development, including
cultivation of high value crops, and propose appropriate
modifications of the scheme.
Execution of Studies
2.10      The benchmark studies would be conducted over a period of about 18
months during the first three project years. Collection of data would be
completed before the start of rehabilitation works. Two evaluation studies
would be conducted in each sample scheme after completion of all works. The
first evaluation study would be conducted over a period of about 12 months in
the fourth or fifth project year, preferably after the scheme has been
operating for some time under the new improved conditions, and the second
study would be undertaken over 12 months during the seventh (final) project
year. This implies that sample schemes for the study would have to be
selected among the first group of 17 schemes, for which feasibility studies
have already been completed, and the second group of schemes to be studied
during the second project year (1992).
2.11      The field surveys would be undertaken in two phases.  During the
first phase the study team would collect relevant information from statistical
sources and agricultural support services operating in the scheme areas. The
study team would also conduct group interviews with community leaders. During
the benchmark studies the respondents would be asked to discuss their
expectations from the proposed project works, both positive and negative.
During the evaluation studies the respondents would be asked to state their
views on the impact of the works and the management of the scheme.
2.12      During the second phase interviews would be conducted with about 50
farm families. A stratified random sample of households would be selected on
the basis of farm size and ownership status. Factual information would be
collected on all relevant aspects needed to prepare typical pre-project
(benchmark studies) and post-project (evaluation studies) farm budgets and to
estimate the economic rate of return on rehabilitation and improvement works.
The farmers' opinions would be sought on subjects such ass (a) planned or
actual changes in cropping patterns and practices due to the project; (b)
functioning of farmer organizations and participation of farmers in O&M
activities; (c) current problems and suggested solutions; and (d) assistance
received from Government support agencies.



- 83 -                                   ANNEX 6
Page 11 of 11
Composition of Study Team
2.13      The studies would be conducted by a team of qualified independent
local experts under a contract with the Irrigation Department (e.g. a research
institute such as the Agrarian Research and Training Institute, a university,
or a firm of consultants). Given the number of schemes to be studied, about
four separate field survey teams would be established. Total professional
staff requirements are estimated as follows:
Senior Professional Staff                             Staff Months
Agro-economist/Team Leader                                  42
Agro-economists (two persons)                               84
Agriculturist                                               20
Institutional Specialist                                    20
Environmentalist                                            12
Irrigation Engineer                                         12
Sub-total                                               190
Junior Professional Staff
Research Assistants/Survey Team Leaders (four persons)  168
Total                                                   358
The team would also require support staff, including field enumerators, data
processors, secretaries, drivers, etc. The project would provide transport,
office accommodation, equipment, and report printing and reproduction.
Reporting
2.14      The study team would submit the following reports:
(a)  an inception report within two months after the start of the studies
which would include comments on the terms of reference, proposed
work plan, data storage and retrieval procedures, formats of reports
to be submitted, etc.;
(b)  brief monthly progress reports and detailed quarterly progress
reports within two weeks of the end of the reporting period;
(C)  a draft final report for each of the benchmark and evaluation
studies, detailing the team's findings and conclusions, one month
before the end of the studies;
(d)  a final report for each of the three studies at the end of the study
periods; and
(e)  lists of surveyed farms with location and addresses (to facilitate
eventual follow-up studies), questionnaires and work files, with all
relevant information collected during the study, at the end of the
assignment.



- 84 -
SRI LANKA                                                         ANNEX 7
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                     -E
ProJect Implementation Schedule                                                  SHEET 1
Activities                   Year:    CY' _         CY92        CY93          CY94          CYO95        CY 96 _       CY97
Quarter: 1 2  34  1  213  4  1 t2  314  1 2  314  1 2 3    4  1     2  34  1 21 S11
REHABIUTATION & IMPROVEMENTS
Medlum/Malor Schemes - Prepared
..............i.. ....................................I................ _ .   _._... ..  ~  ~     _ .._  . _._ .._ .....  ....___._ _. ........1
1. Maha Oalwewa-Meegahalandura Wewa
Preconstruction                            C
.3          .7            C
Construction                                                            INeedm   *  a  a a.7
2. Kaltota Diversion  Al D7 1                                    C
Preconstruction                             m .             ma        mm
.3   .6             .9        C
Constrution                                                                                      ma        U    S 'NoU 
Praon.rc.n - . -- -        i 4 -  .................*7__. _. ..'. *..........................  ...  ..,.    .. .  ...     .. .   ...     ...    ...    ...    ....    ....   .....   .....   ...    ...     .@... ... ... ... ...... ... ... ... ... ... ..
3.Wnnarwwa Tank
Preconstruction                               CLo .
Contsftrtion                                                              7 s      am     a  it L.!    a  a  a.d-1m  a  a
4. Udugods Bandara Ela Diversion
Preconstructlon                               d            N              7
Constructin                                                  ad*goI0       *   a I* a  a                        I     USaI    a Ela  a
5. Gampoiaweia Rala Ela Diversion
Preconstlrucon                                              C
Construction                                                m4a 44                       108 a  a  am          a  Esmma   a  maOe 
6. Buttals Amuna Diverslon
Preconstructon                                              C          .
Cons tuon                             I                                            a       * I  a a  a a I*1   * .   .1.     * a  .s .   .     beef
7. M itta iwa Wows
Preconstution                                 C
Consrulctin                                                aA                             a aam                     ms am
__. N_t_ea  W_w_
Precontstuction                            a
PrConstuctin
10. Dorakade Maha Ela Diversion
Preconstruction
1t3.  tiyragwnne        Tank Ib
Precnstucton                                                C
Con1sucion                                                                   a  am a  a I           a m    a 1  I  a     ma 
12. Nelugiliakada Tank
Procoratuctlon                                d 
Contruction                                                                       m.. . a   m           .. a  .. m   a  a ...     a
L   Moraga.w.wa Tank
Pronstr     b0ucftin                                        C
Constructonmmm aam                                                                                  aaam am m m a
14. -Ksrswd-eniya Mobe Wows
Preconstnuotlon
Constructionmam aaa                                                                                 m      mm ma           aa m
G1. iir,    uMbs ElN Diversion                                   C
Preownstruafton 
Constructilon                                                                ap mm amp a  aa   a  a  mm            apa mamaI al
16. Pitha Malhs Elm Diversion
Preomontucften                                CL      a
Construction                                                         ami         em     l a         elaaa    aa mm 
1.UuasAmuns Diversion 
Preconstruotln 
Constructin                                                                  a  mmo  a    a  mm a.       a  amll  a 1a  Sleelam  am
--  -  -                                    d~~~~~~~~~~~~~iltaJI5jIan   11Sxi



- 85 -
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT                                 ANNEX 7
Project Implementation Schedule                                SHEET 2 (contd.)
ActivitIes               Year:    CY91       CY92       CY93        CY94       CYOS        CY9g       CY97
Quarter: 1 2 la4 14       a    . a2  1 21314 112.314a12 a    41112aa    4  1 21314
REHA6IUTATION & IMPROVEMENTS
Medium/Maior Schemes - Unprepared
................................... . ................... __...... . ... .... ................. . . ..... . ._.._ .... ..... ... ..... . .... ..... .. .._... .. .. ..... ._ .. .... ... ..... .. ..... ..... ....
18. Tanks and Diversions                                   26         .      
Preconstructon                               m_ _ inm                                    PA__ _ _
Constructlon
Minor Schemes - Unprepared
19. Tanks and Diversions                                  .26         .5         76C
Preconstruction                   _ _                                ___                                  _
.2        .4          .6         a8
Constructdon                                                                                                 S  
OTHER COMPONENTS
Feasibility Studies & Detailed Engineering
25     I.5            75        IC 
20. Medium/Major Schemes                          '     u -       -n         u . m -
21. Minor Schemes                            _ _6 _                               _ 7...   _ _|
22. Progress Monitoring and Quality
Cntrol*.    m-. -                                                   m****---m--m                          *mm
23. Improved 0                                       - M  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Bench Mark SurveaIs                    mlad Assessment
24. Impact Assessment Studies                      mmm. m    U U   I I _m   -II
25.      - Taining                          F Mm              1-m... ..... *                    m1-1- m-m
26.irdlgetion Research                             mnm mm                    m iim            m    m     m    m i
27. Dam Safety and Ouality                         mm-
Control
28. Soclo-economic Study                                                                                            MEN _ _ _  i      .  T
I   C
29. Agricultural Demonstration        l                .mmmmm.|'                 mmmmmm..m       mm
30. Hydrological and Water Management                - T  I  I   * I  I  I  I  I          I I I  I * * cT
Studies  _ '    i     
NOTES:                                                                                  Abbreviatlons:
(1) * ' a a   ' a 9 9 Operation and Maintenance by farmers                                 C . Fuly completed
(2) Contruucfon work Is maWy carded out In the dry season l e. the 2nd and 3rd Quater



t   E     1    !1l FFppa!.zl        .    a           I      !   e?
i    .l          '! ....... ...             ........           ..
r                                         I
I& L.          ;.Iu                5   UR
HI
*  I~~~~~rt
I SI   FEYZPE       5             -ii,,                     ,
,      .a                    mImmY ausmu, Ip                      ,f
.             *              *....., -                                     -                          _R
*~~          .             - *~ .~ -                                    I; .f
3MEMIY. ~       ~          ~         S                                  -   . .. I..        3 
I.I.I.,  I            .;         .1 *,*~t                   I,      . *   * II 
i* *.  *@  *.        ,*.       1 *S .*.           Io .1 . .3
11lSl  lgl sltE"i  BO!_!g!  1l- 9p - 



hTim. MINION10  SSILITATII  99050
Table.?. OIiMil  1TAN  (mull")j8  -                   IqIMH AMISiA NM 208 1 95 Vil /a
P.1.02.4 Cost Jbil.
bostli.                                Iii.~~~~~~~~b   C.'0.                     rotals Inwhma0 Csatmintw
I. INKSM111 mm~                                                                                 -        1I2                                                -
2.    M11COIl
2. NEU
Mr12*1S - wel  no                                                   2006i          - 16.5   22  11.5    -   -   -   55   1s3            214.5  206.0  214.5    -   -   -  1,15.0   -  223.   380.2  300.9    -               - 30.6
923510 m   PILLEAT                                                     Il          - 31.1 22.2  17.1    -   -   -   57   .1.        -   53.0   70.1   53.0    -   -   -   176.7   -   65.5   92.4   72.9             -      -   220.7
MAIN1 To 91215                                                       SW                                                 -         4.0                      - - - -    4.0  4.6                                              -  - -4.2
RIP 09 "M m                                                         too 1013      -  2.9  5.2  3.9    -                 1   3   44    -   171.6  329.2  211.6    -   -   -  572.0   -  211.9  29e.  236.1   -   -   -   146.9
mISISE FI3113 M312110                                                 gm                                                            -  670.-.0 1,260.0  670.0   -    -   - 2,000.0        999.4 1.333.? 2,039.7    -   -   - 3,464.9
21130211 To 101015                                                    El                                                -       -         6.6    M.      6.6    -   -   -   22.0   -    3.4   12.0    9.5          - -      -    29.9
f,)1-o1jl W2S111                                                                                                                     4.0 2,115.7 I,5.31315.7   -    -   - 4,329.? 4.6 1,993.1 2.169.4 1,699.0    -   -   - 5.426.?
061635  - NMi  Gm                                                  200 20         - 22.9  27.2  22.9    -    -   -   43  21.3      -   145.6  294.4  245.6    -   -   -  685.9   -  167.5  267.1  212.3    -   -   -   U60.9
CN. SINEIIEI - FlUES, UET01INI  181. 609ES                           813          - 84.9 13.2  64.9          -   -  233   2.5          IV32.4  109.6  227.4   -   -   -  424.5   -   57.7  221.9  175.2    -   -   -   324.3
N122*1 21    - 861  MAli                                              gm                                     -                      2.2   69.6   52.2   -   -   -  274.0 -   64.5   M2.    71.1   -   -   -   227.2
11111111- 61816112123  CAN"                                      a3          - 91.2 229.6  97,2       -      -324 0.25              1 4.6   19.4   14.6    -   -   -   46.6   -   2.6   26.7   21.2    -   -   -    60.7
691alS2213C.210631331- 7 gs E55,Was* C20               S1S            53          -   27   3    27 - -                 90g  I.?          45.9   02.2   45.9   -   -   -   253.0   -         6.1   20.0   63.2    -   -   -    Mn..
(MIlUS  - Flu) EMU1.                                                2023           -  9.6  22.0  9.    -    -           3-   V    .3  -    9.3  119.0   09.3    -   -   -  297.6           1 20.2  123.6  222.16    -   -   -   I11.6
013131139  - FagB)m C     112    la2 65 61J19    JflS                  a3         -   205  140  205   -   -   -  338   1.5              IS27.   210.0  157.5    -   -   -   53.6   -  29.5  274.4  216.7    -   -   -   40R.
*312120K    - IIfilmmlta   I flu  CMAS                                El           -      --                     --                      63.0   84.0   63.0   -   -   -  210.0   -    7.0  209.3   86.7   -   -   -   274.2
1,*TgAI 0611153   9251321                                                                                                                  695.6  9M74   695.6    -   -   - 2,316.6   -   67.1. 1,226.4  90.9                     J    .003.1
sub-TOWa  MM38M  low3                                                                                                                   4.0 2.01I.3 2.K6.? 2,012.3 ]        6,70.3 4.6242. 3,39.7 2.61*5.9    -   -   - B."O.9 
C. I018.113    $12
wowMEU    UI                                                      2000000         -13.5    toIL.S             -   -   45   13    -   215.5  234.0  215.5 - -   -              651.0       219.1  322.0  246.2           - -      1- .9
r 1   [If MN a01.639106as  MP                                         El-         --                    -       -      -           - 26.0-- ----204.0  - 96.0--                                               - --..            3.26.0
3CCAU1IIIU      TIM MA2CE1                                            a          -06   0.3  0.6   -2   06    -   36.0   46.0   36.0    -2 -120.0                                           .      62.7   49.5     -        -   150.1
OWLiP 6OIECIIU                                                    200000U3         -  2.12  .8  2.1   -   -   -    7   00    -   92.4  323.2   92.4    -   -   -  301.0   -124.1   62.0  IV27.2                         -   -   462.2
f.h-ot.2 ME61111                                                                                                                       -  507.9  405.2  3031.9    -   -   - 3,2).0    -    04.2  534.8  42.1 -                    1,661.6
2. liNISO KUIBNE
ECMLlN   - 06IL.I WAI3COIWJ                                      200000003           3.5  4.6  3.5    -   -   - I2.   7.1    -   26.6   32.4   26.6    -   -   -   011.6              -   34.2   42.7   38.7    -   -   -   22.5
0EQ0ID 106 AM C0MK It AD                                               83         -  0.3  0.4  0.3    -   -   -  0.9  3.J           -    0.5    0.6    0.5    -   -   -    2.9              0.0    0.0    0.6    -   -   -         2.0
*3E2.LJYMT5    - MMS                                                  10                                                                 0.2   23.    10.2     - - -   34.0                1 2.6   17.1   14.0    -   -   -    44.4
Ui-1014l 353233 21139133                                                                                                                    V 3.2   49.6   27.2                  1    24.1    - 41.3   67.2   524     -             WJ9
Sut-1ot.l lENin    35 -CN645.2  454.8  343.1   -                                                                                                                                   ,401.1    -   512.6  602.0  476.2    -   -   - 3.821.1
6. 00050810  66 00613S11412&                                              El-2.3  325.6  376.4  23.3   -   -   -  9)6.7  2.7  406.2  517.2  412.2    -   -   - I.32.2
totul 119151E181 0315                                                                                                                     221.3 2,947.2 3,522.9 2,634.7   -   - - ,26.1 24.9 3,591.9 4,524.9 3IM2.2    -   -   - 2.9.
T.2Ul                                                                                                                                      21.3 2,947.2 3,512.9 2,M4.    -   -   - .130.9 24.9 3,597.9 4,514.9 3.536.2    -   -   -22939                '
/a  E3106365350. CM109 CLEARIN.ST,P123992W1SOLI2T23925. 9221T51101KM95MM. S000 FILTER COMT. 253113    FILTER 931001O061IM. 031t OF E5091I20.SUPPLt M6 PLACING FILTER 3021.11TO50AN tEa  MT0136305
F,brwor, 26, 1991 09136



Ski LNa
ITIAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION MROJECT
Table 3, 11N111  DIJERSION SCHEMES - (APPRAISED- DORAKADA MM EUA DIVERSION SClEIE(16 NA) la
Detailed Cost Table
IRS 000)
Cuantite                                          base Costs                    TotWS5 InCaludid CastiarSxS
unit 1M  Im       3 I1994  9 1996 1997 Total Unit Cost 1991 1992 13  9 15 1996 199? Total 1991 1992 1993 19  1            96 m19 ToUl
1. IINSTImI cosrs
A. SJETING aND II1EST6ATIO                                            -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -               - 10.0   -             -   -   -   -10.0    - 12.9   -    -    -    -    - 12.9
B. IEAPJS
COCRETE NS    - EFLA E     OF STIll WA BYT AC  ETE VEIR   113      - 44.5   -    -    -    -    - 44.5          3    - 133.5   -   -   -   -   -133.5    - 164.    -    -    -    -    - IU.8
fMISION ff SWU  TPE LIFT1116 6ATES                          go     -    2   -    -    -    -    -    2          24    - 48.0   -   -   -   -   - 48.0    - 59.3   -    -    -    -    - 59.3
OICIETEREgS  CrIEDo QITETS                                  113    -  6.4   -    -    -    -    -  6.4        3.44    - 22.0   -    -    -    -    - 22.0    - 27.2   -    -    -    -    - 27.2
EARf   S-FlFMSANDTRA1N1iNIM6N                               113    -  310   -    -    -    -    -  310       0.08)    - 25.1   -    -    -    -    - 25.1    - 32.3   -    -    -    -    - 32.3
Sub-Total IEARS                                                                                                          - 228.6   -    -    -    -    - 228.6    - 283.6   -    -    -    -    - 283.6
C. imSTfRi iIELiT
EARTI3S                                                     113    - 92.4 39.6   -   -   -   -  132          0.257    - 23.? 10.2   -   -   -   - 33.9    - 30.5 14.0   -   -   -   - 44.5    0
RUBBLE  SONY RETAINING CALLS                                13     -  9.5 4.1   -   -   -   - 13.5            2.5    - 23.6 10.1    -   -   -   - 33.8    - 2S.2 13.2   -   -   -   - 4.4    co
CaOCMTEN  S  - DIFS ND FIELD SDTLETS                        113    -  7.5 3.2   -   -   -   - 10.7             3.3    - 24.7 10.6   -   -   -   - 35.3    - 30.5 13.8   -   -   -   - 44.4
Sub-Total DDIISITEf IEUFIEINI                                                                                            - 72.1 30.9   -   -   -   - 103.0    - 90.2 41.1   -   -   -   - 131.3
0. DIEERNSIN B A   IlZNSThRATION                             SLI      -    -    -    -      -                           - 37.3 3.7   -   -   -   - 41.0    - 48.0 5.1   -   -   -   - 53.1
Total INlIESWTi    COSTS                                                                                                 _   34L8. 34.6   -   -   -   - 382.6    - 434.7 46.2   -            -   - 480.8
Total                                                                                                                        - 348.0 34.6   -   -   -   - 382.6    - 434.7 46.2   -   -   -   - 480.8
:55:: -r==::    5  ::5  ::=5    ,-=     = ==== -=5c :== =   ___5 =2
/a EARTHOS INCLU0ES COST VF CLEARINGt STRIPPING TOP SOIL.  IlD TWLINS
Febtuart 26r 1991 09:16
g-I 
Z.i.



RIA LAMRA
NATIOAL IRR16ATION REP 2ILITATION PROJECT
Table 4. 3IlNOR TANKS (A?RAISED  - NOBE164NE  NfA a NA SCHEME 134 HAl /a
Detailed Cost 7able
(RS '000)
Duantite                                                Base Costs                        ..,als ltcluduN  ContinseDCies
Unit 1991    992  1993  1994 1995 1996 197 Total   Unit Cost  991 9M         1993  1994 IM   6m 199. Total 1991  1992  993  1994 1995 1    199?7Taal
I. IUESTnT COSTS
A. RWS  AND INVEST16ATINS                                SIm- -                                     -       -               7.5  7.5      -        -    -    -    - 15.0   8.9  9.6   -     -    -      -    -   18.5
B. NEAN8W
EARTnMHS (RESECIIONING)                                n3       -    191  191   -          -    -    -  382     0.293      - 56.0 56.0    -   -   -   - I11.9          - 72.0 76.9    -    -   -   -   148.9
REONSTRtICTION ONSUICE                                 A13      -       5    5   -          -    -    -  10         2      -  10.0  10.0   -        -    -    - 20.0   -  12.3  13.1    -   -   -   -   25.4
ACILLIART  MO - EWNT                                  sun       -       -    -        --                                 -  9.0  9.0    -   -   -   -  18.0          -  11.1  11.8    -    -   -   -   22.9
EARTH    - PSILL TAIL CANIA                            03       -     184   84 -    -   -              36S        0.1      - 18.4  18.4    -   -   -   - 36.8          - 23.7  25.3    -   -   -   -   49.0
ELACCEMET OF GaTE RN  FERATIN6 ECMNIS3 OF SLUICE  51U           -- -         -    -     -    -    -      -                 - 42.0  42.0    -    -    -    - 84.0       - 51.9  54.9    -   -   -   -  10.?
Sub-Total WEADISKS                                                                                                            -135.4 135.4   -   -   -   - 270.7          - 171.0 181.9    -   -   -   -  ZZ.9
C. DINsIREan KDELW3ENT
1. AIN CANAS                                                                                                                                                                                                       W
EARTHLRS                                            33    469   1vV6    -   -    -           -    -  2.345   0.103   48.3 193.2    -         -    -    -    - 241.5  56.7 248.6  -     -    -     -    -  305.3
REWLATA S (@ IIOS)                                  i3       2       8    -    -    -    -    -       10        1.7   3.4  13.6        -   -       -   - 17.0   3.9  16.8       -    -   -   -   -   20.7
TURNS (29 NOS)                                       3   17.4   69.6    -    -    -    -    -        87        1.5  26.1 104.4    -    -    -    -    -130.5   29.9 128.9       -    -    -    -    -  158.
DIUERSION UEIRS (2 NOS)                             33       8      32    -    -    -    -    -      40        2.1  16.8  67.2  -                        8 -    -    - 84.0  19.3 83.0  -   -    -    -    -  102.2
ACILLAt  VREW  - CAMS                              sn        -         ---                            -              11.  47.2    -     -    -    -    - 59.0   13.  58.3    -     -    -    -    -   71.8
Sub-Total rAlN CANLS                                                                                                   10.4 425.6     -    -    -    -    - 532.0  123.4 535.5      -        -    -    -  65.9
Sub-Total  IINSTREAN D3EVP1ENT                                                                                            306.4 425.6  -          -     -     -  532.0  123.4 535.5  -    -                  658.9
D. ElINGEERINOi AND  AI3NISTRATION                       Sim                           -                                  13.7 68.2 16.2   -   -   -   - 98.1   16.1  87.8 22.3    -   -   -   -  126.1
lotal INJESTIlE3T COSTS                                                                                                      27.6 636.7 151.6   -   -   -   - 915.9  148.2 803.9 204.2   -   -   -   - 1I156.3
3=3  si=    ==   = =   -  =    c-   _:: =  =2_2z=
Total                                                                                                                         127.6 636.7 151.6    -   -   -   - 915.9  148.2 803.9 204.2   -   -   -   -1.15S.3
/a  EARThMS INcLUDES CO85 aF CARING, STRIPPING TOP SOIL, AND TWUFINS
(DIX



SRI tuA
UT11lM. INRRIATION RDA ITATIIE PR0
Tabie 5. fmR TASM (MISED) - NW1RI 1W. W   (4J 12  /a
kUtiled Cost Table
(RS @000)
0outito                                      as Costs                          Totals 3rtludin C.tiMmis
_bit
hit      I9I IM  I9m  1994 19M  ;99l IM  Totl eost 1M  IM   Im   1994 I9M  1996 IM  Tul  19m   92  1993 1I 19M  1M   97 I          otUl
3. IIESIBM   COSTS
a. 5 5  ARD IEsTITIs                                                             SUI         -       -    -    -    -    -    -    -     0o.0                            -  10.0  11.7    -    -         -    -    -    - .7
B. IIES80
EARTI8S (IECTIlI3NS)                                                      10O00000 3      -  30  45   -   -   -   -   75  7.6    - 228.0 342.0   -   -   -   - 70.0                - 293.3 469.9   -   -   -   -  7.2
COWEiV  -    SWE   PIE P tOE R   SlUICE AD M EAStRIMB UICES lb                RN           - 14.0 22.2    -     -      -   37  2.4    - 35.5 53.3   -          -   -      08.9     -  3.9 69.6   -   -   -   -  113.5
S-otal WANMSS                                                                                                                              - 263.5 395.3   -   -   -   - 658.6       - 337.1 539.6   -   -   -   -  976.7
C. I9ISI1U DD&tH
RNn                                                                       10DOODC00 3     - 5.3   8   -   -   -   - 13.3  9.5    - 50.5  15.8   -   -   -   - 126.4                - 65.0 104.2   -   -   -   -  169.2
CRUME  L         - WCPS17 NOS). PIKPVE M?uTrs(9 N  DS) M   E ULAARMS02 NM)3    N3          - 12.8 19.2   -   -   -   -   32  2.4    - 30.7 46.1   -   -   -   - 76.8               - 37.9 60.2   -   -   -   -   90.J
Sub-Total DIUSIE  IEUIWf2                                                                                                                  - 01.3 121.9   -   -   -   - 203.2         - 102.9 164.4   -   -   -   -  267.3
0. ENIGIERIIIS AN ANIIISTRAIIe                                                    SI         -    -    -    -    -    -    -        -    3.2 41.4  62.1   -   -   -   - 104.6   1.4  53.2  05.3   -   -   -   -  139.t
Total INuESTrIIN C0Sr3                                                                                                                     33.2 396.2 57".2  M-   -   -   - 97.6  13.2 493.3 709.2   -   -   -   - 127               0
Total                                                                                                                                       11.2 386.2 579.2   -   -   -   - 976.6  13.2 493.3 78M.2   -    -    -    -        7
/a ERRTNISS INCWKS CM OS CLE01I#S SIRIPPIS TV SOL. MAD AMPIUI
/b  STEUCiti1ES INCL. COST e SITE CLEUN  IA MD S1PLY  D EIN LIATISN f BATES MD 0310(1 MaREIS
Febmru 26, 391 09:16



SRI LMAa
rAtlRL zrnAerrm  wMaOLIrmar       Pfir
Table 6. IINIM  rNS IUPAISED) - NITTEIIA TAII SCIIEM22 il) /a /b
Detailed Cost Table
(RS '000)
9wantitb                                      DM Costs                          Totals Itncuding Cgati ff
thiit  119929 IM    194 9   1996 (m  total Cost 1991 1992  M   19  99s 1S M 1997 Total I1 1992 IM19   1994 199 199  M99  Total
r2222:  =:2 552:: =22 5   2=   =  ==5 5,5 55: 55= _55  :55==  =   =   =2  =2 55552  5-52  =2=55  5= 22                   5  552 822822= 
1. ItlUSTIDI COSTS
A. SUM   MIM INTAES16ANS0 Sim.- -    -                                                                   -         -0 -.                            -    -    -    -    -   .  11.7    ---7
e. EWAlATS
EMIlTWI  - TAM   B                                                         (00 113    -   22   33   -   -   -   -   55    B    -176.0 264.0   -   -   -   - 440.0    - 226.4 32.7   -   -   -   -  50.1
tcAEEIE S-REPAIJISTO30  PM DIAN. SLUICE                                     113       - 11.2  16.9   -   -   -   -   28  2.4    - 26.9 40.3   -   -   -   - 67.2    - 33.2 52.7   -   -   -   -   85.9
CKIEIE 1VOAW  - IRS TO 22 M DIL. SLUICE                                     113       -  0.4  0.6   - -         -   -    1    2           0.8  1.2   -   -   -   -  2.0    -  1.0  1.6   -   -   -   -    2.6
EART1(S - SPILMLT                                                            lI3      - 151.2 226.8    -   -   -   -  378 0.05    -  7.6  11.3   -   -   -   - 18.9    -  9.7  15.6   -   -   -   -   25.3
C8iCEllNMS-TIUs1ePlILlIAT                                                    113      -  4.8  7.2   -   -   -   -   12    2    -  9.6  14.4   -   -   -   - 24.0    - 11.9  18.8   -   -   -   -   30.7
S*-Total IEAMU08S                                                                                                                        - 220.8 31m.3   -   -   -   - 552.1    - 329.2 451.4    -   -   -   -   M3.6 %o
C. LU1Nt1        wEIIT                                                                                                                                                                                                     *
EARIJIS                                                                     113       -224  336 -    -    -   -    o 0.1              -22.4 3.6   -   -   -   - 56.0    - 28.8 46.2   -   -   -   -   75.0
0.31111 WAPS17 S) CUUEr       PIPE OUTLES(ISN (MlIAN EN    .IIES 499A )               -  9.6  14.4    -   -   -   -   24  2.4    - 23.0 34.6   -   -   -   - 57.6    - 2*.4 45.2   -   -   -   -   73.6
Sub-Total ifmlD KR WIT                                                                                                                   - 45.4 68.2   -   -   -   - 113.6    -  7.3  91.3    -   -   -   -  143.6
3. E iEERIl AND1 MIISIAIK                                                      S -    -                     -    -   -    -     -     1.2 32.0 47.9   -   -   -   - 81.1   1.4 41.1  65.9    -   -   -   -  106.4
Toal IRE5STIEIIT MoSs                                                                                                                    11.2 298.2 447.4   -   -   -   - 756.8  13.2 380.5 608.6    -   -   -   -1.0P.3
2       ---- -2- ----     82 -  = - --- =----  5 555 555 555 -    -   -
Total                                                                                                                                     11.2 298.2 447.4   -   -   -   - 1.8  13.2 380.5 608.6   -   -   -   -            3
/a EAIS IalS COST W aUM1B  SIRJPPINi 1W SOILe MID TWINI
/b  IE SEIE  MSCIL              (if COST CRITERA.  l?ISED COST SMMD BESED NO  015  T    IIITER90L CIOSSEtINSW       TlNE M . AS CUVTETD UT MMSL  tOS TIlU K REDUCED
1- Ps
(D PC
av co



SRI LAWII
NATItAL IRRIGATION PEIMUTAllTfItON PRUECT
Table 7. IED1IUIVRAJOR 1AN ANID DIVERSION SCHEES14 1s.-I#115 lit) - rPAR   /a
Detailed Cost Table
IRS '000)
luantlit                                             Ke Costs                                    Toals Inrludird Emtirntries
Un it     -         -    - S------------------------------nt --
Uknit In1 1992 Im      1994 1995 11%6 197 Total Cost Im99   Im   3993   1994   1M    1996 1997  Total   1991  Im9    1993         9    35lm 399   Ita)
=::=  :=:: =:Z= =:-: :::::=: =-     :: :::::=:=C=  =C=Z-- ==S==== =z====== =:=== ===   = __  :=._==:._::  ==== --==   G=_        -=    - =  == ===___-
1. INwsriRar costs
__________-- ____
4. SMWr[g ANP IE511ltS                 sul      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -       150.0  150.0       -      -       -   -   -   300.0 176.2   930           -       -       -   -   -   369.2
P. HEAMs
fARTIRKS114,500 43)                 SUI     -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -           - 192.0   92.0  192.0   64.0   -   -   640.0           -  247.0  263.8   279.6   98.3   -   -
SlRIIlMESll240 N3 OF CtTKUhE) lb   SU        -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -           -  24.7  284.7  2D4.7   94.9   -   -   949.0           -  351.5  372.0   391.7  17.0    -   - 1,252,2
SWtY AIND SEIAD GRM                  9       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -           -    13.2   13.2   13.2    4.4   -   -    44.0         -   17.0   16.1    19.2    6.3   -   -    61.1
'ToIaI HEWAIAIIRIS                                                                             -   M.9    489.9  489.9   63.3   -   - 1u633.0         -  615.5  634.0   690.5  242.1   -   - 2,20?. 
C. PNSTREM BEYE NTCrn                                                                                                                                                                                   NO
CaR7T     (7,000 13)                 Sim     -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -           - 2M2O5.0 2,205.0 27205.0  735.0   -   - 7,350.0       - 2?U36.4 3,029-.  3,23.1 1,129.2   -   - 104207.0
STRUCRES(500 113 oF CCETE)           SUn     -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -           - 31900.0 3,900.0 3.900.0 19300.0   -   - 131000.0     - 49015.5 5096.5 5365.2 lW876.2   -   - 17,153.4
Sub-total WOiSTR[AN IEIfmNlEMT                                                                - 6o105.0 6,105.0 6h05.0 2,035.0   -   - 20,350.0      - 7,651.9 9S,26.3 86576.7 3.005.5   -   - 27,360.4
P. ENIONEERINGlA;UIPW156Flal                    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -        111.0  909.4  791.4  791.4  263.8   -   - 2674.0  21. 043.1 1,087.4 1M15?.7  405.3   -   - 3,707.6
otallIIWSIIT Costs                                                                           IU.0 7,554.3 7M3W6.3 7M3O6W3 29462.1   -   - 24a957.0 197.4 95014 9.867.? 10439-9 3,652.8   -   - 33tU3.2
2    =z:~     =====2::S :== _: :=Sg                                 ..==             g-    -=S
lotal                                                                                          168.0 17554.3 7,386.3 7h386.3 2462.1   -   - 2469W7.0  197.4 9,501.4 9W867.7 10,419.9 3,652.3    -   319639.2
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z_C _C_Z __Z=. ____ _C.:= ____._ __~ .__.=_ _    _   __  __ __ _
/a EARTINlIS liCtURES CUST OF CtEMINIO SBPIIfMlE  P SOIL, A10 rFiOw
/b  STRiUCTURES INE  COST OF SITE CLE4;111C A  SIIU    W  I4lSALNAI0AIOI  IF CiTES AND C0lTSt MRA3UEJNTS
februatr 2611 eIfvl?O 17
wIl
-.4O



5RI LAIKA
NATIONAL IRRaiATION RlElILIrFATI   PROJMCT
Table 8. mIMOR TN  ANI DIVERSION SEESI11075. 224 11A) - PREPARED
Wetailed Cost Table
(RS '000)
Cwatit                                            Base Costs                                lotals Includinr Contirdeies
---------'------   -------------          uni   - ----------------- -          _ -       _--    ------
it    2 I92m 293 19i9   95 I116 IM7 Total Cost 199    Im             1993   1994 1[M  I96 17 Total    1991   IM         1913  14 I9  1996 1997 Total
1. IWUESTIINT COSTS
A. Si        NoS MI IESTIGATIMI I       SW       -                                    -        1o0.o  100.0        -        -     -     -    -   200.0  117.5  128.6                           246.1
P. EANAIRs
EARTN110K626#000 U) /a               suln                                          -            - 1,015.0 1,015.0    -    -    -    - 2,030.0       - 2,305,6 2,394.4    -    -    -    - 2,W00.3
STREJIURESII08 113 IF COICRETE)  b    SIll                                         -            -   21200   210.0    -    -    -    -   420.0      -   259.3  274.4    -    -   -    -   533.7
PRTECTION 1 S c                      SUn      -    -    -        -     -     -    - -           -   330,5  M39,5    -    -    -    -   677.0       -   418,0   442.4    -    -   -    -   860.3
S Total  EARS                                                                                      - 1,563.5 1,563.5    -    -    -    - 3,127.0       - 2,12.9 2,111.4    -    -    -    - 4,094.3
C. 51iiA IIUE UT
EARIIME(2I600 13)                    su -                                  -     -  --   515,0   SJS.O    -    -    -    - 1,030.0                 -   662.5  707.6    -    -    -    - 1370.2
S TE51 ftO  N3J oi CORET             SU       -     -     -)-S_-    730.0  730.0    -    -    -    - 12460.0                                        -    0I.4  954.0    -    -    -    - 2,955.3
9b-lotal  ISIIEhl EltlFIEIIT                                                                       - 2,245.045.0 1,245.0    -    -      - 20490.0      - 1.563.8 1,661.6    -    -    -    - 1225.4
e. EINIEERIN  AN   INISIRAIGII -                         -     -     -     -     -     -  -    12.0   349.0  337.0    -    -    -    -   699.0  14.1  449.0  463.1    -    -    -    -  926.1
Total INUESTINET COSTS                                                                            112.0 3,257.5 3,245,5    -    -    -    - 6,515.0  131.6 4,124.3 4,236.1    -   -    -    - 8492.0
2=223-___ :::==. 2=22=2=  =:           zz e e- 2e        -:    =         CT=     :            :===
Total                                                                                              112.6 3,257.5 3,145.5    -    -   -    - 64515.0  131.6 4,224.3 4,236.1    -   -    -    -  492.0
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2=  mr_--__                                _    --=--    _      =-=C==   T=-                              Z 
/a  M     nO s IQMXES COa   If 0.EARIU;, STRIPPING TO SOIL, AND TIUF1I16
lb  STERCHES  IlI. COST  F SITE CLEARIN MMI Sl1?tT MD ISTALLATION CF BATES AND CNTROL  RNlIS
/c  CUSP IEliJKS WI STREMI  RIF-WR  MID SOPI' FILTER, MID DONSISRE  FILTERS FOR SEEPAGE CONIROt
rebrwr, 26, 1991 09:17
lb
WU.
OD0C



slim
i1TlaK lMti  O-T4TtG4 "AMU
Tabl 9. I3DIIII sU  0w 8) - 1mm a  MMU                     0,355  ) is  lb
'JSlt to% Tbe
_.I20O                                                              80,. Cts                                             ToblS lreludios Cti in
hit     1992 I2   23    99 I     98 1996   19?"  T1u1 O bit co   199  1512    13m   1294    lffs    ISf6   159 7I"            To1     IM   152    IM       1994    1995    2996    zm    Total
1. _ SSn
*        tA. EI Sw ia21 0                       U      - 2.5382.9.8 2e8.9 2053.8           -      -  10.5        0.38    -  9837   983.7   s83.7  983.7          -           3,934.1    - 2265.4  13451.7 242.8 1,521.4        -           5,561.3
* ID nM TMWN34 N U
1. EIIA86   AG.0U
OTI2NUM       0 8ID                       a       -         I.43   1438  1,438  2.438  2.43   750            1.4    -      - 2P802.0 29002.0 2,002.0 280M2.  2802.0 1001.0    -          - 2,750.8 2915.9 3,075.9 3.204.4 3.313.4  15268.4
sTIATsI e95300 Sf (     E)                 U      -      -  2.430  2.430  13   1,438  1P43    7.15s          2.8    -      - 404.0 4,004.0   4.00 46004.0 4.04.0 28,020.0    -           - 5,232.4 5.508.2 5,778.7 6.0080 6.-212.3 28,739.8
Ws a5 Ws      s M ss   14500 83i t        N      -       -    too    ISO    Ise    lt    ISO       90o         9    -      - 1,620.0 2620. a0262.0 120.0 1,620.0  8180.0    -            - 2,117.0 2,220.6 233.0 2.430.8 2.513.5 12,628.0
inzm         fg                            U      -      -    360    360    360    3e0    360   1o82O       0.11    -      -    39.6    39.6   39.6    39.6    39.6    19.0    -         -    54.4    57.7   60.8    63.4    65.s    301.9
*-Ta            S6 -    65.6 7,665.6 7,665.6 7t665.  7,66.6 2,38.L0    -                                                                                                                    - 19,254.7 2o8nO.4 11,253.5 127106.7 12,204.7 95,930.0
2. iAlOI KiiT8
Ewwwt3 17,00U 0                           i      -      -  2,430  1,430  19430  2.430  1,430   7.150          7    -       - 10410.0 101010.0 1040.LO    10ONA 1OPR.0 So-e 50, s 0    -  - 37;54-.? 14579.5 15,379.3 16.022.2 16.5669.  76,302.1
51311AU4 0  a3 f    anKE)                 U      -      -   2438  2420  1.430  243t  243    7,250             5    -       - 71250. 70 56.0 7.19s.0 7250.0 7,156.0 35,750.0    -            9-343.7 9836.1 10,319.1 10738.7 11,03.4 51,321.0
i    jM ff FM                             a      -            30    360    360    360    360   1,80         0.11    -      -    39.A    39.6   39.6    39.6    39.6    19 .              -    54.4    7.7    0.8 6s.4    65.5    302.9
-t96 i          i KUiE WT                                                                                             _      -l 17,199.4 17,299.6 17,199.6 17,299.6 27,29.6  599.0    -    - 23152.3 24,473.3 29759.2 26,814.2 2725.9 22799.0
9*-Total I     E    li3*1 37,160 1151                                                                                    -      -24,865.224,165.2 24.86.2 24865.2 24W35.2124,26.0         -     33.3 137.35.183.7 37,012.7 30528.9 39830.6 38395.0
6.   3163   31533.95 U)
EMIins  3)                                U     -       -    640    640    640    640    640  320         0.801    -      -      0.6     0.6     0.6     0.6     0.6      3.2 -         -      8.      0.9    2.0      2.0    2.1       4.9
SB2in41.OeW        ea 839 E)              U      -      -    640    640    640    640    640   3200           4    -      - 2,5600 2,56.9 2.560.0 2,560.0 24560.0 122,80.1              - 3M3C4   3.527 3,694.7 3,802.3 3.971,9 18,375.1
S-7jWi g                                                                                                              -      - 2.s60.6 2,560.6 2M500.6 2,568.6 2.560,6 U283.2    -         - 3,346.3 3,522.7 3.695.7 3,802.3 3,973O IS2379.9
2. SI1EU 31T1
E1in4120o2    i)                          U      -      -    640    640    M       60    640   3,280       0.32    -      -   l98.4   19.4   2984    298.4    s4    992- .0             -   2726   289.0   304.8   327.6   32.4  1sS52.3
smusc34uOm  a 8 UE                        m      -      -    640    640    640    640    640   320           11    -      - 7,040.0 7,040.0 7,040.0    4.0 7,40,  35,260.0   -          - 9199.9  Vv684.8 29,160.4 10263.6 289.8  5S09.4
61105 ar                            -      -    368    360    368    360    360   1,800       0.12    -      -    39.6    396    39.6    39.6    39.6    198,0    -        -    54.4    57.7    60.8   63.4    65.5    382.9
a   MSFM                                                                                                              -      - 7,218.0 78   278.0    o 278.6  7 .0 7,278.0 36M.0          - 9,526.9 1o0031.4 20,526.0 I8.04.5119316.7 52.345.6
W Tb  d  leb i mAS     813  Ml.                                                                                                      3 -  9.38.6  9 .   9,830.6    9 436.6   9 3.6   409,93.2  -  -   2 732  13,554.  24211.7    1478   25,209.6    7e .72s6
L9111a   10236m   m 8        1 1                                                                                            IILO - - *   -  218.0 4292.5  4202.5 4,202.5 4P264,5 4.164.5 212945   -   51.8 5,834.4  6.237,4 6.57?.6 6.6657.? 0092.3 32.411.3
ital    mlTM    a8s                                                                                                        -  I2le1.9  39,7012 39,970.2 39,970,2 38868.3  38,068.3   298,748  -  1417.3  MA4I6.4  V 80.e  59,325.4   59,973.5  62m02.6  m ,523.2
IdS                                                                                                                         - 1.101.s 3?9#M.J 39sTA.1 39s#e.1 30. a.3 B3M8W8.3 198.74d.6   -  1  .3 3  9,416.4 46.408. 59.31.4 SS9W.5 62.012.6 m2.3.
DO     Of C)Mb    -I-V-                                                                                                                                  -               - -  wn- in                          -in   an 
IC CST M    mim WV    1 soM   me sea   I   Ru R O
lb   Vs I8 tWI U aE 0.32  I tWLT M   lIFIIa I1                   Ull 061  SM    m
k  U2151M9-wS 3so niwia8513 mms FU 2731501a
bt 1. 899 62 r49



FWle  nelell         fellZ 
1*3. 10. -      si    U13   - 1w  as nwugu2o.60 00 I. /
3.0.1140 Cost 1*3. ~ ~ ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       oUs midis ouud i
88 '0003
3.ltib4                                                            3t,64                                                     10133 InKIUdI  CUtI6mgII
eat1 am   Im      3n3   tm       1     3M       37 lM    l Tu tt  91 Im          3n3      394    Im9        396       97    lo.        Im   1m      1993     1994    3905      199     I39      foul
1. ISSIIEII mm1
,. 9338130 30 1    11                   U      -    163  645  hU6.5 old           -       -  246160 0.3      - 2342.)  2W342.7  2M3O.?  2b342.7         -            9,37e.s    - 3,03.5  3,219.0  3.412.1  399.3          -        - 13.243.?
3. 
ItM12 03U11 2l                                        N -  - M3   3.452   3452  343 2 452 D 0.260 30.5           - 36.240 3244.0 36,2440 3602460 36.24.0 j1.230.0            -      - 49,003.3 52,792.1  5,607.9 56.016.0 59,938.5 276 .
sTACRUMlO.0         loW   11)       IN     -      -  3.432   3642  3452  3.942  39452  1.260  2.3    -           -  7,939.6  79M.6  73.   793.6  7939.6 39,69.0              -      - 39,379.5  10,922.4  11,430.7 13,913.5  12P31.5 5M9.S
m0338     111.3,330 38                     - a          203    210   230    200   2M3   So.  2.36    -                47n.0    42.o    472.0    4n.0    42.0  2.360.         -      -    616.3   449.3        1.2    M.2    732.3  3,337.9
133S i am                           N      -      -    00    30    0O    4e0    400   2.000 0.33    -            -     44.0     44.0     44.0     44.0     44.0    220.0     -             60.5     64.1    67.6    70.4    72.3    33.4
5*sta                                                                                                       *      - 44.KAM4  44,74.U6 U44701.6 44.70M.6 44,7701.6 -Msw..o      -      - 6.0.6 64,427.3  6-.1    70.706.)  7312.2 337,402
2.    i38u.u
111113  IILI   l)                   a      -      -  3s452  Se,153   3.3     3.    3,0   17.260  4,7    -        - 162         24.4 16.2 24 6,224.4 34.4  6.124.4 33322.0            - 2233.1 23.3.7 24,927.0 25,969.1 26.2.0 123,71.9
SEIN351(3.        E U      13       U      -      -  3,452  3.30   3.452  2392  3,452   7,240  3.         -      - 13,117.6 132117,6 13,137.6 13,117.6 130117.6 45,53.3      -         17,142.2  18.045.6 1.231.3  19,683.1 20352.3 94.1.0
g1B0.3                                                    -                                                        - 29.342.0  2,342.0 29342.0 29,342.0 29.320 14no.0           -         3.435.3 41,76.4  43es.0 45.632.2 V.204.3 -:7.26.9
b-..  El 11t            3415,s63                                                                                        -703  -74,04-36  _74043.6 74,043.6 74,0   V0.211.0                  3 00.291.9 106,104.2 111.794.3 116360.3 12316.5 554,327.
L. mm  T1135111 8 35MO3 IN
*. 1111m                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ' 1
031in18.033 gm                     a      -      -  1,1   1ea0   143    1,430   WM     7.30 0.09    -           -    133.2    133.2   133.2    133.2   133.2    666.         -      -    23.0    394.0    204.6    213.2   22.  1,015.3
313513623,00  El                    V )    - -    -1340   1.4S0  W30   1.430  1.40   7n0  4.9    -               -  7.zs2.0  7,252.0  7252.0  7.252.0  7,252.0 3620.0            -      9.477.4  9,96.4 10.466.3 10.1.?7 211251.7 12.03.
S                                                                                                           -  -       7,325.2  .33a5,2  7,3S5.2  7n365.2  7,325.2  3ss92s.e    -      -  9,6.0  10,170.4  10,671.0 13,994.9 134n7.1 51000.4
2. IlmUE ICUI.3t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~711. 7352 11.2                                                                         738. 6.2.
E131430%  ,02    3n                        -      -  1.483  20   WM30  134,0   1s410   74t0  1.07    -           -  11031.6  3,10S36   WM36   1503.6  1.53.6  7,9n3.0         -          2,15.9  2,306.5  2,433.0  2,94.7  2,620.9 32071-1
1elo o31300 13  amiD                U      -      -  l,80  ,1,0  3.4sM    3.40   1,480  7MM0   12    -               717,760.0 3,60 37760.0 37e760.0 17,76 .0 oro.@           -        23240.9 24,432.1 25,631.9 24,649.1 27.55.3127477.0
S*-et.4                                                                                                    _     _13  K =  - 9343.6  39,343.6 3,.    9343. 3 343.6 961          -      - 25s384.3 26,713.6 28,64.9 2971S3.3  30,176.1 3MM43?
M-lMaI   SEElm  31383088    U33Elu                                                                             -      - 24,720.8  26,720.8 26s7.6  24.38a 26.723.0133,644.0        -         33,044.10 36109.0  30,733.9 40.273.7 414164.2193,16o.
W.    08    3_ hl-                                      -      -      -      ----                              -  20.  32,373.3  2313.  32.373.3 1S      2   120927 41,567.9           361.6 17,02.2  18,02.4 3.011.0  19nsa  20,031.9  3,76U.9
T.t.  t        e mu                                                                                                2.6233s15,I401.9 115.489.9 115.04.9 112,365.1 132,365.1 574,320.7    3,375.1 15557J.9 164,447.7 173,140.4 1759,94.7 133133.5 544514.5
----   - - - -    -----  - -    -
1.6.- 2.673.3 335s.43. 135,433.9 235,413.9 132,865.1 112235.31574,820.7                                                                                                                 3.375.3 535 A7. 164.447.7 373100.4 175.99.7 M. 5.3 s4454.5
/a  11111MMCo.                                                                                                                                    s    u                                n ffn "M S  ls  ,n iS ans
lb SX1138101 NM. CM   OF SMl 01831  3M              33VMB15131910T OF 1651M 883MM  3030113U
Ic CM? 53015  3885.4 811r  -0 AW  133.13 30 111iSIM  MO$13 FM SOW3  301
M,u.  20 1993                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o 37
3.atr,)
CDx



mlU4 tkAWAMTIN   =
it.            Im w air3WEL*0II $ in     fr     m                a
089*. II    3904 11*    S31004. tlO91  laDIE   tAUT 911. 0  WtZ S
003..d cosl table
us 'O019
Ibantits~~~~~~~~~~~~~h W os                                                                            ToUlt Lhiulirts t  Liraiy
obat   Inl In2   In3  Im I          Insm    IM   Toul    ct     an   Im2       IMn     IMf   I5         Im   I"?      lT.l   a        f2     mX      m         n       nf     I  
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  -ci                                                                                            0__t.0_ -  _w80c _ -t_  _ _  _ _
1. 1  asls~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
cmr
a.   mm m         .        5
-  D2.60   2.000.6 2.0.0 2,000.0 140.0 1400  30.000.0              - 2.434.2 2.594.4 2,14.3 2.97.6 3.59.  1,510.2 13.740.?
0m4   AuL.OaSO   *-          I n99161      M ONS4 in,                  Am       .         .                                   ,090.0  4-.320.0 11,3.44..         0        0.l 190.0 54.000.0  1.no.] U w2r1 .4 14,.39.7 23,220.7  1,731.   ,054. 702.3 n,o72.e
00402*3049109.03   II1001UT 04801*1301I.Oa. 1993/8  oJ 0    39  *29  04  485  21*   Ii  39  3,909   30  250*0 0   5.0.0.0  -      -       -      -        .7.9*0.9.3.70.1 03,870.4          -                        -  76832.
_- ttUI-5tOL   U    GItUb   tSNIE1115 Le315 Wfl5s       u la  1   I5  y I"   3s0o   eo t,D  2O   USD. Psoe 1-   30  1,50    b                                        .26.2 I.m.0 n.Zet;  a Fn62.
391- 3*IU453mm. aS *0*044 Nu                                                                                                  - . .1,000.I .0 3.o.f4. 00399.9 1.0*0.0 1,000.0      3 .0*0.0      -1.196.? 1l,5.9  13.23.*.3409                    -0,*.
amW                           It _t0 9*  M  gaiaD    fa MAm                     .                                             510.0  2009.  2,00.0  2,000.0 2,0*0.0    0 00.909.8  *o,000.0   359.4 2,100.2  2,617.2 2,174.3 2,a.5  1,524.4   29.1  1 O41
5Rt M     t       Sm        III no tmg      gI mm                      s        .                                                 -  1,208.0 1.200.0   150.0   150.0   310.   -0   3,0400            - 1,470.1  370.3   200.1   219.5   X.7   25.4  3,923.1
AMS ALumam 0                                                                    -                                                                                                                ----------                                                 -
1*0.0 14,9020.0 23.0t4.0 2-.09.0 191,o39.  I.M90 2.30.0 *0.00.0.  ;.71.8 30,76.1 1.752.0 3,270.5 27,.190.1 M3.7I5.  4,217.1 12,037d.5
S11t me m  ill MS amm
-.1*0.0 1.39.0  I3-I0.0 1,390.0 1391.09 .3*0    16,05.0                                                                I 3,1     3,tt9.O  1,929.1  2,033n 2.   2.391,  13,1.
1111.11111:Sim                                                                             _                                          ,        ,1      ,a, ,,-   1   10.4   0.  .3  60.3  -  3.105   1.04.1139.2   945.1   91S.T 1-03. 4  -   s106.2
I53*0 aDR 5* *Ui o*  *,,-_-
t.Mab       t                                                                                                                        - 3,910.6  3,390,0 2.01.1  2,071.5 2,011.3 1,90.93  930 359        - 4,364.3 2.fst.2 2.07.2.  1,030.0 3.259. 52191.0 19.074 .
I."                    -=       : t *08 W a  m o   o                                                                          -                                                                                                                                 '0  .     'oO2  tWt^:ltoXou s!_    tat"7   22's   t>    25.41' 
L     3530*31. AK MSW T0*001093-r-                                                                                                    100.0 1MU.MA   ,109.0      1,0 40,0.0 1,400.0  71004.0             IR *57  93 .0l9-.0 3,040.  2.134.2 2,2007  10.305.
Ioaveae,W_ =OM   an  Qmm            s=M    DRMK  a  U-mm       amotai;                                                                                2  600.9-  1  2.. 0.0 2.80.02.04.0  11.009.0  szo2.6 1.12 sxo.oa 2.03.4 -3.294.  4.9011.2 l6.7Ut.4
tm=1590       cm  so        M  no 40041  W                             SW04.9    004.0  1.-00,0  1*0.0 1.600.0,600.0  0- - -                                                                          -   0.3  t,046.9 2,219.4             -4 29-0 2-2. --1.14.
t m sg . -50.0    - M  -umi W M-l e.. 5                               .M. -   -   -   -   -   -                    5-0
_ S480                                                                  s,0k     . MS  m.   .                                         2.04.9 2-.1              5,04  -004,9 5,400   29.04.0   2           30,2 36..4.1 1,700.9 9.1941  B            jU    10.4199
a_ we                                                                  M e    s  .         .     .     .50. .     .                                                                       0.    .7.                                                           L
btOt                    l am                                     RN  IbXO.O- . . . . .                                  4.5100.19,5;0.0 *5.7.4-3 5.-34,.
3d     0   U7 . 0                                                                                                                1 0 .0 0 4 3 0 8   2210.9- 2 n s u   X  2 *  3 2 X . s - w a . J  n 7 2 . 5 u s 0m . o9 - z 5 2 . z  2 n p o . a  3 m 7  .   o - n n o  3 t- n 5 . 0 2s . a t . 1 m .-  22 t.1 1
0  won04                                                                                             ,0 ,03,1*90  1,079.33.67193
110,15al VOW0   133004130921001*1*MM  COSuO M                                                                                  30,500.0.0.-9,99
f8043191040cot                                                                                                                    40.09   0,039111.42030.2 9.54113.29.*.3 111 16,741.39,129.439.104.9  44.452.,24,97L.733,394.41.9139.665.41S.92.499*.319 inM .2
Tdat                                                                                                                       11.3111.3                       161.333-0 44.432.7                                 23.451.4.1.0011.4010.09519.2,31.   1.0I39,204690404445.2497.2357.1091.594*.254=. *.349    19.
i a t5*135cm ar 5315  t@siona0 *m2 u3           - m3 hilmr 2                Wt n        705 a1                    u          nu= 3A3 NW t3. 3i1u 7     mm
Melb  5913*9  C&*rno ta0  3*0 w0*71, 39    mo                    MllS 1053000995*0  IID~               D l 01*04016103913mw4 DSII 01 5r. *73JI* a
1041  399  1*0
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 >1



.MVIA tumATNnu uatAnlol     MaECT
1i6e 12. 003 5FE00. IKI1Y 1330 " NO 001E*1? iAWAEl UNITS
btai816 Cas 98
(IS1 0001
Olsilt                                                   one Coss                                         Tta I tuit 8M568   CmtlrtIn
80.6 18998 899 Om9  8994 899 3199 I"9? Total Wit8 Cost 899   899      8993    8994    809   899  899   Total    199    99       899     1794    3199  1996 199   foual
111111u.1 aiim?        SatuINK   158    own5                      Om       -                            - -8                      50.0   150.0   280.0   200.0 200.0 800.0  8,000.0    -   83.3  18943   277.4   292.6 304.9 157.6  1.412.4
11138111  IS 138128 S 0080815        I I In to VP      to        -- - - -5  -S200.0                                                      --        -         -S200         - 5.5682         -                               .561.2
33-1*1   a  Wm  Om                                                                                                               3 ,420.0   2205   .0   300.0 300.0300080.0  6.700.0       S .M)6.    294.4   416.1   439.0 457.3 236.9  I.03.1
9. mim I   am
u 0081M8U44                                      U       -~~~~~~~~~                ~~~~~ 2   2 - -   -  -    4  liW0  - 3..0  I.a.0                                   3,635.3 3M.92.                                7,608.8
6819   rFM      ) FIN    90 1111   93D Cln  U 38801              so                                        -               -    5.0  810.0   800.0   800.0 8000.0  0    5.0  0O.           Al.;   ::.      38.7   340.1189.4 70.3    710.
13081  13F a'i                9   ML08  1393938                   SUN                                                       - -  2,800.0             -       -          -2,300.0    -2,245.9                   -       -    -    -  7.26.9
u.mmm2msza   34tm.i             gS 6mUS0013cOWl)                  VA        .                                               -9.00 .-   .-  ..4.o.                                        0.500                -        -            - 8.5.
M4aW  OK          II3193    v                                                                                                  -84.650-0  38010.0   800.0   800.10800.0 50.0 10110001-    U- 8412.  64056.?   130,7   846.3 852.4 70.0 20,715.?
C. 0003            9 Ut?
UN I8 513M10  KammW   0 9439v MI)                          0             2  12   9   4   -           39       4817      S.M$0S.05004.0  3,'M3.  2.102.0    -    - U4,263.0    - 5351.6 So533  4,29.2 2,950.              -    11.1)4.4
00n0Ma'ugu Q           33M OM  0 M  4FKM 1*9 UAF 2            0/rn           6  0    6   A               50       417    - 2,502.0 5,004.0  2,0.0, 2,50.0,   -    - 12.580.0    2- 265.8 5,5)3.5 b2060,0  2,158.8    -    - 84.0W.I.?
1U3IU9 eMus dUE.I00K0818  inaMMU  1=1                                       36 I   36  M4  36   -   -  144         if    -   612.0   682.0   682.0   682.0    -    -  2,440.60    -   39.0   0009   048.    09.5          -        3,293.1
13333I M   M 93 S NiOEs 023Ml3i 0 I                                         24  24  24  24   -   -   9"            17    -   400,0   400.0   400.0   461.0    -    -  8620         - 499.0   533,9   566.0   59.0    -         -2.196.?
in3        din as3 1U411194  ml5                                M 8- - -                           -      -               -   840.    58.4   506.4   50.4A               18.9.      .0    0-  3100.    403.?   427.2            -   .991.2   8
imNI. mm.m                                                     so0.               .    .    .    .0.    .8.93-3.300.0 4.80.4 4,300.0  4,540.0                           8467.0    - 4.081.? 5,2)5.1 S.M3.4 6.380.1    -        -21.9)2.3
am                        90       -         -    -    -    -    -    -     -       - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,883.0 4.280,0 3,28.0  2,941.0  13.4)2.0    -  .692.6 5,293.0 4.240.5 4,105.2'       - 8.34.
M38401 MM99003                8 -1101800   Omlim  &INK=  1311686                                                            - 85.1020 89.904,4135,3434184,387.             6 -44733.0   - 87,142.023.583.) 89,M0.5 815,958.8 1       78.9)3.    8
2. 3880830 0111,41114111121C
19310 00981  ~IM1111           31 IMo                          /8 0        J 2  12  82  82              40        go    -   96.0   940,0   960.    960.0    -        -3.340.0   - 1.176,  1.256.3  8,338.7 1.404.?                5.184.;
M30080 833000  lamim  51609                                    gm        - -                 -- - --   410.0   480.0  493.0   400.0    -                                  .M.0.    -   31110    43.8   65.3   70.3    -           -3149.4
M  3? 31609 8 1833 SnB   As a men,93                           33---- 8-   -                        - -0- 8.0   0  84.0 S .0   00.0                             -        4.040.0    I-MA29.  8.317.8  1.40.4 I.250.4    -           .4107
31516033                                                       gm..3-.- . .                                                   m.o  8.000*  J1,010.0, ,0400.0             5  .ooo.0      900.1 18.12.8  1.94,M .04,        -        6.0.
COMM 003AK                                                     Ste-.4--8-- -                                                 2,040.0  4,000.0  4,0010.0 4,00.0    -        o3404,0    2,419.2 5.2)4.5  5.503,5 5.05,9     -     9, 1I.35.8
33-  - - -                             -   --                           40.0    00.0    00.0    -          200.0   -        -    52.3   138.0   3878                 3304
33--. .                                .   .240.0   30.0   330.0   32.0                                   1 -  3,0.0   - 294.0   483.0   443.9   403.2    -    -8,64.9
aimm                                            M        -        -      -      -    -3-       --    60.0                          -    4.0    -      -    400.0            -   209.         -   358.2          .    540
33-ida  8u8011                Kw0393                                                                                         -S,5N.6 3420.0 0,300.0 0,340.0    -            0,40".0 9     .508,8.  853?8.0.                          41.571.l
J.           OF 10381119111PONi
41111M                                    -        -    -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~   444. -       -      -    -    -           4.400 04.70, -              -       -                                       -.0.  4.7156  81.6
1833                                                           so3-- -- -                              -   -0.0   000.0  680.0   330.0                                -3.040.0   - 60..?   M3.7   984.?   96.             -        3,339
5935 100818                                                    so        -           - -        -- -800.0                                 -        -       -     -    -    800.8        INA.9       -       -            -           106.?
an  M0835-38U2-800 ---2.-0                                                                                                                                                 -2-9.5-                            -   --        .94-
-             -.- -        ------------------------------ -m
Sub-1 1.1110 II0  A33   8N 1 t- 23,647.0 29.8124.4 24,443.4 '3.057.4                                                                                                    - -105,4'3.0   - 248?3,5.  84053.0,                              38,3.409 (D
ValuE 8S8E01 0591                                                                                  - 00.722.0 37,449.4 24,043.4 23,051.4 .00.0 200.0 838,473.0 -- -5-.4--.- 3--.-7- - ---3-4------ -----9.----5.--------  N
1843  IAKfcm- 4P.M2.$ 33,449.4 24,043.4 23,057.4 480.0, 2M.0 130.473.0   - 5.430.7 39.107.1 32.23.,4 33.685.3W 419033.2 360,804.2"
flit ...    ....  .... ....7..  .. fl-**W-*fllS.-.--                            ann-  -itsl             -. f
fou3l 1815



98-                         ANNEX 8
Table 13
1'~~~~~~~S
!Xi 1l    -is1s                    I! isS-1   liZ1941f31Z' II
E  !   I    I      ^;13    B~~~~~~~~ ~Id1R11i
]1s1     i  -''*1,  1a  6ii1ijj        l13|12
g  || -|| !j.         i   !3I3 -|  VB_|  *}    | 3|  |i
RI 3ii;;4!j                       d,B{  l-!igs
El             II.*     I 'Is
11              .. I              I 'I1   ' jXS 1glidlS.l;.
II ~   U    III,    U       li   31111 1IBei
:  51      31i   *'-l   ii  i   1I           1R     1    ii1
:!i~           ~iii                             Ii'   Ii
{!~~ig ij 'qi  I jf's
-   ]l  [i ii   ill: ~             '        '                 .



1M  34 mau- maam sW? EfiN   gum   imw                    N
bCalae Cat lI*l
am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nm
baIh                        _a 'iS                                         _                  21d,,*s.e _
Mal11t 1t 11931r119w  ISIS 17191119111  bit1Cat  liNt   lilt   2123  334 12-5 1 SML  81    N 0 am    a        Mw*   am   a     m     m ,
I. - -
ldMNKW  _E  _           N        m      _W                                                      S i   * -   1h 3  3  3                                     ' -  2 '14 SN12 dSM -   b3.39   .3. 1m.  .4    1.a      - 13.7
stats inmim ra  mmU s,elI ,|fIa, ww                                         a       - 12 Rt at 12  -  -  _             S           4610N        m.   n.        ,     2~.        -  122   13.2  531   p.9       -  - ob
- 6N    2&*., t.US.. 2b.1. ae.s.   -843*       - 7 zsa.s 2.43 7.4W.; 2.65;;1.4 2.83.   -6.m2
*. aCm  1   -     MINaim           _ a mi11. Is
_ 11mm - _m                                                                 M -.-i.s. we- m-h                                                                  - -  -    -   * - 1.01.3 .-78.0 20.64- - - - W.A7.4
mam   .           -   do                                                     M  -              - - - - - -  -               1'O  61.0  . 0                           I - - - M..  a   u1e ms   -   -   -
-.a                     _                                                                                       a.,a.  em".g am.        -     *     -  - 75?.sm.e .zm   *.m33.? a..a    -      -     -  - g12.a e
C.       . 0111111111111  EM 111111-11
a.       - .inaOa e.    _s     e  l. 1111                 IN, m1 .s ae  M                            e  5                  1     b1  # ^3.        -     -     -                              -  - 2.23.0 1  1,.641.3  -  -  -  - u.
.     u11111*  -                                                                                                           *m   -.2 0   01.0      -    -      -     2J. -  6.3 -a.e                -     -     -  -  .Eu
1       - Ia FM isum           a2  -U---3                                                                 -   2    2.4         48M.-                                            - -   -  - 1.1.41-14   -   -    --  -ta
111am           1 d                                                               -  -  -  -  -    -      -                     W.3*  - 3.                      - 1.   M.*   - I .23.4               -            3.4
auiaa man                                                                                                                     - t2.m.  i*.   age  US.. U,  - at.e              -  a,.lINJ 118.6  aatl.2I   tI2.2  -3t.7
43-"_  mus.            #11011a 11e                                                                                          hA.   1,.0 &m.   We2 "Li                -2W.03.0 1.39.421.s2 .S0.a  a4..1 IU.I  It?        2 t22.2  22
ki           _                                                       c                                                              2.4  1.15 7                                2.       4         b2 ? .1         .e   -    2 . 133.
W~~~~~~~~~~~~ h0                                                                                             -@     --   -  -24hS1          -     t.at. t 2  MarIWts -X. 2as 7*-b  - 
Ib O rM .  m1  &U l M      mA t WM 1   VI    M     0 11 1111- M  FI1 0Na.            rai   .  _                 . E  E
*  _is  ma" sag    sum warR gingum _. _mxui. islEtS  minus maim,4
mp.4e



avITIaIK Iamum awolta MMI
lao IL  1171g11 111i M1 M IUTInII 0  IITM  11W  tT                           SMF    B    0 IRT
PrIf cot TA
as ~ ~       ~        ~        ~       ~        TW IGIOJI
Gl.a.t                                                    kwmammotr   aon  sam    ins- LmW mama. mann asti
mat awImi am nasm s  m  u  i0 Ft am  im 11                               94  a    m    awi ".W31   am  awI   am S                    m nn m5            m        l ow
_-                                     -      -      -      -      --..  --                             -  _   _   _   _-                    - _     _   _ _____n. .
URNIML DM    S
a. _nlm maD
3           _e aNnAu 3021                                                  oil    -  #    2  32   6   -   -   42           s0    - a.e   Gam.  6m..                     -      - 310         -    .416.37 4.9  .0.5 3,.549         -       - 23.40.0
m5  m TUaL4                                                                 all    -   2   2   2   2        -           - I  so   -   m.0  Ia.M.  a.XO.a I.l.O                 -  4,00.9    - 1.0t.5 1.1.0  3.434 I.tl.3           -       -  4*.5
o-laa u m_12 aw            em 011331                                                                                                - 117.m     .90.  10o. o4,90.         -       - mo.00       - 7?48.2 7.73.? l0.  4.72-,.?         -       - 220.0
2. _L? W       S uuz 1 a tm              was a  1naKa
mm aamM       MaE                                                           Bia     -       12   2  12  32  a2 U   2 n       5   -   s01.0  te.    91o.o        40.0 D 0.0   M0.9O  s.e.0    - 2.302  1,277. 31 I.0.4      1 -.1.2372.0 1.a.4  7.0.2
nM             " a  KMi  mIIS                                              all0      -  24  24  24  24  24    -  In               - a2.0 1.2;.  .0.  1.20I .0 3200.0           -  6.00.0    -   ..ae.l  15.3 t.t44  2D.9 1,129.3           -  3219.2
m032mTM   aMU"                                                     min    -  9o   o  9D  10  *0  go  540            SD   -  ,5203.0   .    .5064.0 43X.YO  4.30.0 4.50.0  D00.0    - 5.5U2.t 5.L.  4h242.1  4,504.5  a.1.1 213.0 38,15.1
mU O3m.  II_alaDU                    9                                     OtO -im a  a1  U a   U   13  13 1) a)e3   7a Oa        -   a ...   aea.o   ae1.0   wl.0   as..,  400.0  50.0    -   1 96. 3t 00        543J In a   M.,    .5  321.1
IaNi   Wuam                                                                aid a        U   12 1212   2       U2  72        50   -   in..  ie.0   W.9   W0.0  60.0   60..  3.co.0    -   7.5.1   12   a32.3   *7.   no4    9.1  So.0
_um     N T                                                                  /Ba    -   3   3   1   J   1   2   U           St   -     A   Je .#   3-50.0  2Y#   5e,0   aI%#   30.0    -   I03.0  1a?.3   m.a   'In5   270.7  234.4  I-M.?                       C
M  O3ai                                                                    gin    -         it  12  12  12 U   U2   U 3    -   A"..    o.o    0.0    a0.   ale.0  MnA 3. a.O.O    -   13               5.1 712   SL.A     MI.1 ntJ  9         5.01.O
.osetr MmWanm                                                              03            a   a   0   a   I   a   a          2O    -       O O0.0O0.O   40.0   40.0   4Y0.0   400.  2,3.400   -   49.0  523.4  55.9   1    *   1.3   630ao.s  3.'sL
oma sa niu_mci a1su11                                                      all   0       3o  3o W    0 Wo 0   o0 5s0        30   - 2,10.0 2,170.0 2,10.0 2.23.  2,70.0 2790.0 16,200.0   - a,.J.7 3,523.*  3.745.3    .7 4.,15.  4.21141 22.90.7
SIIINT    KTM          3m933                                               a, l    -         30 e    0  to 10so             30   - 2,11o.0 2.710.  2.10.0 210,.0 2.710.0 2.70.0 10.210.0    - 3,37.7 232.3 32 .3 37950.7 4.115.t 4,*2D922.390.7
Muim      mNAIR%  43im. flft  M    333130103E.                      M       -       - - - -             - -             --       -  2        D0 O 2.0.0 2030   2.   l-0,00.0 1-00.0  0.90.0    - 2,450.2 2.417.2 2.74.3 2.923,5 13524.4 2.52.2 a8aa
M W mom   FM= on.Fe in909902 03                                             Sll F- -  -     -     -    -     -    -     -    2-_ _-  2,4.0 2,40.0 2.40.0 2b4D3.# 1.250.  13210.0 12,00.0    - 2,940.2 3,114.7 3.29.1 3.511.7 1329.3 3.359.? U..s 2.5
26-T$1d U133    UUl      RIIDM  0 lM 3 tin             II 34   F.90 339331 -390.0  e0.0.0o U,l9.031.9t0.03 6,60.0.. CD A 10723.0    -23.031.4 24,92.1 26.0923.27,331 .221. 24.271. 2010.4
9w-04363 ermV       1 -                                                                                                                 25 e00.02.%.OA 23,00.0 -0S0.  WA1O.O 35.01.0 132,20.0  - 3,517.0 32.23C2 34.012.1 32.25.1 Z.303, 24.2713  173251.4
0.  _ina  w gon   M 13230  Is
en0 O3 40                                                                                 to - a- - '   - - -                             e.o8,0. - o..a  -I--- --SSs
*901333                                                                        g       -  25   -    -    -    -    -   25   3.400   - 2.03sao.a    -PAID31.--                                                                                -    ..
Mm X canso                                                                           a   -    -    -    -    -   40      40   -I.630 .-1,60.0   -3171133.31-hlu
-                         -- - -    -                   4.Y.0                                         4,50.0 - 4,12-.5            - -443*
3913                                                                           S       -   - -   -   - -   -                        - 4,9.0-4,600.0- -tJ                                        - 4*?3.5--             -       -      --4X.3.
Nd 111 wr iU5                           b w_ h- - -    -- -  -      --  - ----
bi * 9=  cm t                                                                                                                               W0s.0 2Mee.0 25.0.A 22 t4. 16.e U    0 M401. MA   L m.95e.e    - t.     2     3t2.e 1 s   v.2 32 74  WOLOs 2b2n.1 242.0
Thl    -n OSYOA 2U.0E,                                                                                                                                     2s30  -1e C0aUl 903  43330     m  t5eA    - 3(33    T2.Y U  34a3 .2.1 92(297a 3 36 . 2 2.1 23919 2  0
U'
/



ml l.
labi. tO. 1W  6599(31113
lots e6 IN    l  e
ht.1lle Cost Table
as 'OX
eoatftw                                                 kw Cout                                        Totls twioll" .   . __1us
U       mit  19 12 193 114 9m  1M    197 total Uit cost 19m    Im    199  1         1m5m    Is  199    to 1m t        192   1m    199    195  Im   Im           b..
1. umrm1 com
A.   LME SmaES
1. KMLV 351    SPECIAISTS, OIM    STOA  IM 9 N    LS
s        CMU      I1W LEM                                               1 -   12   6   6   6   -  32   42      60    -   72.e  360.0  30.0  360.6           M20.0 2:50        -   32.1  471.3  419.4  26.    -1.L.9 3t4.
MORIWULNSISIT20 WI)                                        B/I       -  10   -   S   -           S   20         50    -   500.0       -  20.             -      .0  1.0.           612.5      -  345.0             -3 1.2  1.33L
DsTiTi   9CIMzISI                                          3/u       -  20   -   S   -   -   5   20            e0    -   s0.0         -  2se.0       -   -  250.0 100.0    -   U2.5           -   4e         -   -  34.1  1t.
01UN3       mIST                                           a/l       -   6   -   3   -   -         3 12         50    -   300.0       -  15.0            -   M.0   Mo.6    -   367.5          -  233.        -   -  234.4   32.
unadEMS |4           uDM 04 IN AnnBi                                 -  24  12  12  12   -        U4            50    - 1200.0  600.0  ue0.0  u.    - 1*200.0  1240.0    - 1.470.1  152    3             12.3   17.9  1,91.S 5W..
32IATIUSIEI.                                               3/e       -   6   -   I   -   -   3   12             50    -   300.0       -  2se.0           -  I350.0   4O0.     -   37.         -  21          -   -  2.4   312.
fEAI ISSISITS14 NM                                         o i           43  24  24  24   -  0   1             30    - 1,440.0  73.0  720.0  72.    - 1V..  5,O0.6    -                   tn1.1    4.2   9.1  s    -2.204   .4
Finls3 ( hT3   KUNSS MSD 0m  am5     sP                     sl       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -             -   An.0  336.0   36.0  316.0    -  70.0 2.40.0    -   I33  439.7   461   493.    - 1.14. 3.35
OUSN W    l S.M    1 M  S IUEfIfAlt                         sm       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -             -   336.0  148.0  1ao  166.6   -  30.  12o0.0    -   411.6  210.   21.0                     -  537.4  l7S3
-Tol.1              mAT  uu21  UILISISn  oK L STAF  M  IIKIOTLS                                                         - 5h9U.0 28.0 2s3.0 2#134.0   - 5,2e0. 1330.0    - 7.311.1 2s.. 4.21.2 35                  - S25.4 2.767
Ib4BW  11TI13   SmlIu                                                        h0,48.0 2o-.1340 Z.s.0 2,114.0   -200.0                                                         .0U    - 7#311.12.50.0 41.2 MM9             - 023.4 21v73.
3. I0021t o 1205M 1me now
40  11                                                          3       -   2   -   -   -   -   -    2          I        --.50.0    - 24.5.                                                      -      -       -   -       -  MM
8331E  CO Fur                                                   g       -   2-        -.22                               - t.uo0e        -      -      -   -       - 2l.4.0    - 2.09.5          -      -       -   -       - 20.
mill CYCLES                                                     I-                             --                   40-200.0             -      -       -   -      -2a.               213.       -       -      -   -       -   2139
C12911TE0S315         3931112 0Xlt|I S                                  -   2.-- - - -                   2        200    -   00.0        -      -      -   -       -   0e.0    -   427.0         -      -       -   -       -   07.3
5P119t 43191111                                                                                                         - -   -.0 -    -    -   -                      1-2.0 -       100. -  -                      .t
c5ol tFN   T     a tam MSlW                                                                                                 - 3490.0               -      -   -       - 5.1.0              .               - *  _              - hSL t
oItl W         C-1N OM.0 2,184029b .0 2,13.0   - S250. 24;. t10.                                                                                                                       -1 UALt 2.534aU13.2 3.tlL7   - L25t.4 2l116.I
XP1 ~~~~                                            ~              ~             ~             r  a   ats.  au-          a2 -l @U    2ee2X    -  tL                         a SltI. t. - a2   a 2tl
ammm~~~~~~~~~a
Fonor 26# 1M 01517
IW
OD



-102-
ANNEX 9
*11 LMA                       ~Ta=e
15,IWAL INRIATION RAILITATIIO MPOCT
FinA ir Plr n    Sbmmm AmomaO
(GI  '00)
INTERNTIUOWL    (AWPA
OEVELO9OET     FCPOIIC   OWNSW  O
ASSCIATION    comiTy          RILWSA         Total
AeS   2   AbWlt  S    Abat   I    Aaowt   I   For. WxeN.    Tasxua           Tomw
IOWSTIENT CO9TS
A. RENAPIITATYIN A0   IAOMNTS
1. SUAYS MD IMNESTIATIONS                                                 502.9 I0000       -   -                    502.9  1.0           -        102.9
2. CIVIL VMS
MIIM SCNI                                                            061086.5 65s r.,     -       2.201 14.5 164.14.6 37.    2'113.o         W6H21O.7    420.9
IEDIUIWAJOR SSCE                                                      69033.5 15.1       -   -  18125-0  14.1  778.5 1 .6   t1366.1           6136.1    256.3
VIRP WY OVER MS (CIVIL  OsS O .)                                        72.0 95-0         - -        41.2  5.0    823.2  1.7       11.S        687.1      20.6
bsub-rout CIVIL  nS                                                     23502.0  5.e        -    -  1.94.3  14.2 27.o63 14.9   S164.6          23.033.9   697.
3. ENGINEERING AND ADNINIITRAtION                                        1,674.4 SI.O       *   -  1.674.4 10.0  39340.8  6.7             -        .30f.0
Sub-Total REHADILITATION AND IlA  ETS                                      21,679   82.2               14.8.6  17.8 31.24f.0 62.7    3.64.6        26.8b-5    097.8
P. IMPROVED OWERATION MWD HAINTENMCE
SALRIES. MLLOACES AND oWERAtINs COSTS                                    2242.9 100.0       -                   -  24242.9  4.1           -      2,242.9
BUILDINGS (RENTAL OR NEW)                                                 324.1 95.0                    17.1 10    341.1  0.?          14.3        318.3      8,*
AGRICULTURAL  EMOSTRATIONS                                                  97.6 100.0      -                   -     97.6  0.2           -         97.6        -
'ujb-TotaI IMPROED OPERATION AND rAINtENNCE                                2.664.6 99.4             -     17.1  0.6  2.611.6  5.4         14.3      29.6109      B.5
C. TRAINING
TRAINING ACTIVITIES                                                           -    -   947.4 11.2    708.4 44.6  1,711.8  3.4         912.8        754.2       8.8
SUILDIN6S (MEW AND ADDITIONS)                                                 -                  -    223.1 100.0    223.1  0-4        29.9         IJ7.7     5.6
IECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR TRAINING                                                -       33   80.6      80-2 19.4    412.6  0.6       332.1         80.2         -
Sub-Total TRAINING                                                               -        1279.8 14.4  1W071,7 41.6  2.51.6  4.7    14315.1         1,o22.1     14.4
D. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
REFORESTATION                                                                  -    -        *         712.2 100.0    712.2  1.5          -         752.2
SURVEYS AND STUDIES                                                                   -          -    250.7 100.0    210.7  0.5            -        210.7        -
Sub-Total ENUIRONMENTAL PROtECTION                                                     -            -  1,003.0 100.0  1,003.0  2.0           -       1,003.0
E. OTHER COMONENTS
1. RESEARCH MNAGEMENT U31                                                      -    - T1454.1 35.3  1s935.e 64.7  2.990.0  6.0    1,023.8         1,966.1        -
2. DAM SAFETY UlIT                                                             *          -  -   -      52.6 100.0     52.6  0.1                     52.6        -
3. DUALITY CONTROL UNIT
aLLOVAcES FOR STAFF AM  W TIONL COSTS OF VEICLE AG EUIEN                    -    -            -      17.6 100.0     17.6  0.0           -         17.6
NEW BUILDINGS                                                                                  -    166.6 100.0     18.6  0.4           -        169.       18.9
Sub-Total OUALITY COI0t.1L UNIT                                                -    -        -         206.2 100.0    206.2  0.4           -        If7-3      18.9
4. NYDROI.OSICM. MW MATER IMOAEMT STUDIES                                      -    -        -   -    12f-7100        028.7  0.3           -        128.7
S. SOCIO-ECMONIC STUDY                                                         -    -        -         344.6 100.0    344.6  0.7           -        344.6        -
6. VlRP CaRR O(JM STUDIES                                                  124.9 100.0       -                        1 -  024.9  0.3      -        124.9
Sub-Total OIlER COMPONeNTS                                                    124-9  3.2 1 014.1 27.4 2.647.9 69.4  36047.0  7.7    1,023.8          26043        1.9
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONuLTNcY SERVICES FOR PfINI  NO IlE ATATION                                             6 -  .938 15.6  3,741.9 84K4  4435.7  8.9     693.6       3,741.9        -
IMA  ASSEST                                                                    -             -   -    639.3 100.0    639.3  1.3            *        639.3         -
Sub-otal 11061CML ASSISTANCE                                                            -   693.8 13.7  4,381.2 86.3  1.075.0 10.2        693.6      4.381t2         -
6. DROOEWT W    1I.L1ES AB ERIIT                                            1,069.9 29.3  19010.3 27V.6  I7.3  43.1  3v637.4  7.3    l,w5.             213.1  1u547.3
Total IdMSTNT COSTS                                                           29.138.7 59.2 41039.0 3.1 16,216.9 32.7   .463.6 100.0    I3.666         39*000.1  2W2868
otal Ihvesesmt                                                                29P538.7 59.2 4.038.0 8.1  162U.9 32.7 49,863.4 100.0    8.5U.6          3,006.1  2286.8
pil 30. 199i lf6f4



-103-                             ANNEX 9
Table 2
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IUIUGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
ProD osed Credit Ailocation
Percentage of
Allocated         Expendiures to
Categorv                                      (USS million)         be financed
Civil Works                                       21.5                95X
Surveys and Investigations                         0.4               100X
Engineer'ng and Administration                     1.5                501
Farmer Organizations                               2.5               100X
Vehicles and Equipment                             1.0          1001 for imported
and locally manu-
factured goods and
701 for locally
procured goods
Consultants' Services                              0.1               1001
Unallocated                                        2.6
29.6
March 28, 1991



-104-
ANNEX, 9
Table 3
SRILAK
NATIONAL IRRIGATION-REHABILITArION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Accumulated
IDA Fiscal Year        Semester           Disbursements       Disbursements
-----US$ million-
1992                       I                    1.5                1.5
II                    0.5                2.0
1993                       I                    0.9                2.9
II                    1.0               3.9
1994                       I                    2.7                6.6
II                    2.8               9.4
1995                      I                     2.8               12.2
II                    2.8              15.0
1996                       I                    2.8               17.8
II                    2.8              20.6
1997                       I                    2.5               23.1
II                    2.5              25.6
1998                       I                    2.0               27.6
II                    2.0              29.6
March 28, 1991



- -  -  -  - -     - -  -  -  - -         > - 2
t tt   _    _
6              Mm
wII  II4I.II.I.II II II..
.     ...  .....                         .     a    0
I~                                                L11Ri t 8tt1W;Sttt
ha                                       4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........... ............ ...1...5F
t~~~~ - h- t--t              -  t- t   - - t t 
4-t~
1.-                 .    -t l -t -t  t   1     -1. .   1   -1-  t  .     .
I1...t-    1-  --t--l -1   I.   - ......  -+           a   f
L   _ _                                            4   - I1   1 1  
OT~~ X                     --0                           0



-106-                         ScheX 10
(continued) g
a-       --~~~~.. ....... ... .i.T......-  -----
I  H. 1.~~~~~~~               U
U                                                       II     I II
N  1 1 W U~~~~-   --    t
3:'.                        WT    111 1
SXX  I.;V     I
_   ILL             }t                                    11   fii
aw1h1 : ~- t-                 :8-           -       : --z      
o@  -t-*-~---'-.. i. ;                                         ;.!



-107-                        ANNEX 10
Schedule 1
-   -  -  - - -- - -- - -   - - -- - -- - -    4~~continued)6
..  ..  ....         :     ......  ......
--              - - -   -       n. -  3ii' i-E  -.
a    I                2 1 1 I a 1-                     .
*g    - Iil   II?t'      i Lh I
.3.  10T tttSt11 17
I  j           I  1              }I1  1   
:i~~~~~~~7                   "~~~~~~~~~"IIt: L   I      I
a0                                                   * =  0 !  3t  fl    ;;  @  @ 1   04 h <
w11 S  _  !   !  B       !   _  Bs 3  |  1  1! B   C   | t  I
! jAiMiMiSj !~~~~1111



SRI LANKA
NATrONAL IRRtGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Procurement of Vehicles and Equipment
Financier             ------------IDA_----------                       -------------EEC__________
R-hab &           Improved                           TA for Plan-   TA for Impact
Protect Components    Improvement           O0M           oSU        QCU    ning & Impl.          Assesment         RMU      Training     Total
Vehicles
Car (1400 cc)               8                 -           -          -           2              -                    -                        2 I0
Four-wheel drive           19                4            4          2          6               4                    4           -           43
Double-cab
pick-up                     -                 -           1         12           -              2                    -           3            17
MInibus (26                 -                             -          -                                                           3             3
seater)
Microbus (15
seater)                     -                 -           -          -           -              -                    -           2            2
Motor cycle                35                 -           -         36           5              5                    6           -            87
Bicycle                     -              300                       -           -              -                    -                      300
Equipment
Computer with
software                   20                -            -          -          10              2                    4           -           36                    
Photocopier                 -                                                    -              -                    1           -            I                    I
Survey                     lot                -           -          -           -             lot                   -           -            2 lots
Office                     lot              lot           -                      -             lot                   -          lot           4 lots
Concrete and soil                                                                                                    _
testing                     -                -            -         lot          -                                               -            Ilot
Dam surveillance            -                -           lot         -           -              -                    -           -            I lot
Training                    -                -            -          -           -              -                    -          lot           2 lot
Note: All vehicles and equipment would be procured In 1992.             Abbreviations:
DSU   Dam Safety Unit
QCU   Quality Control Unit
RMU   Research Management Unit
March S, 1991



ANNEX 11
-109-                                        Table  1
SRI LUNKA
NATIONIL IRRIGATION RIBABILItATION PROJBCT
CROP AREA, YIILD AND PRODUCTION
SCHENK: KALTOTA
t1/               .2/
Area (ha)        Yield (WOtOha)    Production (m.t)
Crop                         --           --  -
P     W/O   N      P     3/0   3        P     W/0   I
laha Season:
Paddy    819   655   819   3.9   2.7   4.2   3194  1769  3440
OVC1J/    -       -     -      -      -     -       -     -      -
OIC2           -     -      -     -         -       -     -      -
All    819   655   819                        3194  1769  3440
Yala Seauon:
Paddy    819   655   799   3.8   2.6   4.1   3112  1703  3276
OICi       -      -            -     -      -       -     -      -
01C2        -     -    20      -     -   1.2        -     -    24
All    819   655   819                        3112  1703  3300
Total:
Paddy  1,638 1,310 1,618                        6306  3472  6716
OvCl        -     -     -                           -     -      -
OIC2        -     -    20                           -     -    24
All  1,638 1,310 1,638                        6306  3472  6740
2/ Present cropping intensity is 2DO1; Without proJect, cropping
intensity vould resain unchanged during first five years and
decline thereafter to 160S over a period of ten years.
With project, cropping Intensity gould remain as at present.
a/ Without project, paddy yields would remain unchanged for three
years and decline thereafter as indicated, over ten years.
3/ OICI  indicates other field crops (OICs) of low value, such
as cow pea and green gram. 07C2 indicates other high value
field crops such as chillies and onions.
Januarr 30, 1991



-110-                                          ANNEX 11
Table 2
SRI LINIA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REIAILI?ATION PROJECT
CROP ARIh, YIILD AID PRODUCTION
SCRUE: NAIAGAL MINA
J/                .2/
Area (ha)       Yield (WOt/ba)    Production (nt)
Crop       ---------------- ----------------- ----------------
P     N/O   N     P      3/0   0      P      N/o   N
Naha Season:
Paddy    195   150   195   3.9   2.1   4.1  760.5 315.0 799.5
OJCL3/    -      -      -     -     -      -      -     -      -
o0C2       -     -            -     -      -      -     -      -
All    195   150   195                      760.5 315.0 799.5
Yala Season:
Paddy     10     -    20   3.7      -   3.9   37.0      -  78.0
OICi       -     -      5     -     -   1.2       -     -   6.0
OC2       -     -      3     -     -   0.9       -     -   2.7
All     10     -    28                       37.0     -  86.7
Total:
Paddy    205   150   215                      797.5 315.0 877.5
o0C1       -     -      S                         -     -   6.0
OIC2       -     -      3                         -     -   2.7
All   205   150   223                       797.5 315.0 886.2
_/ Present cropping Intensity Is 105S. Without project, cropping
intensity would remain unchanged during first flre years and
decline tbereafter to 77S over a period of ten years.
Vith project, cropping intensity would licrease to 114
J/ Vithout project, paddy yields would remain unebaged for three
years and decline thereafter aS ladicated, over ten years.
J/ OIC1 lidicates other field crops (OFCs) of low value, Such
as cow pea and green gra. OFC2 indicates other bigh value
field crops such as cbIllies and onions.
January 30, 1991



ANNEX 11
Table  3
NATIONAL IRRAIATION BRIABILITATION PROJECT
CROP AREA, TIELD AND PRODUCTION
SCHENE: DORUAADA LITADDE
-2/
Area (ha)        Yield (o.t/ha)    Production (at)
Crop        ---------------- ----------------- -----------------
P      I/0   1     P      1/o   N       P      1/o   N
Naha Season:
Paddy     17    12    17   2.3   2.0   2.5   39.1  24.0  42.5
OICX.3/    -      -     -      -     -      -       -     -      -
OIC2       -            -      -     -      -       -     -      -
All     17    12    15                        39.1  24.0  42.5
fala Season:
Paddy     17    12    15   2.1   1.8   2.2   35.7  21.6  33.0
OfC1       -      -     -      -  -         -      -      -      -
OIC2       -      -     2      -     -   0.8        -     -   1.6
Ill     17    12    17                        35.7  21.6  34.6
Total:
Paddy     34    24    32                        74.8  45.6  75.5
OiCi       -      -     -                           -     -      -
oFC2       -      -     2                           -     -   1.6
Ill     34    24    34                        74.8  45.6  77.1
1/ Present cropping Intensity 1i 200. Wlithout project, cropping
intensity would reaaiD uncbanged during first five years and
decline thereafter to 141 over a period of ten years.
With project, cropping intensity would remain as at present.
-2/ Without proJect, paddy yields would realn unchanged for three
years and decllie thereafter as indicated, over ten years.
_J/ OECI Indicates other field crops (OFCs) of low value, such
as cow pea and green gra. OFC2 ladicates otber high value
field crops such as chillies and onions.
January 30, 1991



ANNEX 11
-112-                                         Table 4
SRI LANIIA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION BERABILITATION PROJECT
CROP AREA, YIELD AND PRODUCTIOI
SCRIEN: KOBEIGANE
-1/           -~2/
Area (ha)        Yield (at/ha)    Production (at)
Crop       .        -       - -                   -------.
P     W/o   N      P     N/0   N       P     W/o   a
Naha Season:-- - -- ---- ---- ----- -- --- -- --- -- ---  -*---- -----
ahab Season:
Paddy     32    25    32   4.0   3.1   4.4  128.0  77.5 140.8
OICl_3/    -      -     -     -      -     -       -     -      -
OfC2       -      -     -     -      -     -       -     -      -
All     32    25    32                      128.0  77.5 140.8
Yala Season:
Paddy      -      -     -     -      -     -             -     -
OFCI       -      -     4     -      -   1.1       -     -   4.4
OIC2       -      -     2     -      -   1.0       -     -   2.0
All      -      -     6                2.1       -     -   6.4
Total:
Paddy     32    25    32                       128.0  77.5 140.8
OlCd       -      -     4                          -     -   4.4
OIC2       -      -     2                          -     -   2.0
All     32    25    s8                       128.0  77.5 147.2
}1/ Present cropping intensity is 100l. Without project, cropping
intensity would resain unchanged during first five years and
decline thereafter to 78S over a period of ten years.
With project, cropping intensity would increase to 118S.
2/ Nithout project, paddy yields would remain unchaaged for three
years and decline thereafter as indicated, over ten years.
_3/ OFCI indicates other field crops (OICs) of low value, such
as coe pea and green gra. OFC2 indicates other high value
field crops such as chillies and oaions.
January 30, 1991



-113-                                               ANNEX  11
Tabl1e 5
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION 11E1BILITATION PROJECT
CROP AREA, YIILD AIND PRODUCTION
SCRINE: eAU hIRI IBBEWA
-1/               -2/
Area (ha)        Yield (a.t/ha)    Production ln.t)
Crop                          - -         .
P     N/O   N      P      /0 Nv         P    ./O       .
Naha Season:
Paddy     39    25    40   4.0   3.1   4.5  156.0 112.5 180.0
OIC1_9/    -      -     -      -     -      -       -     -      -
OIC2       -      -     -      -     -      -       -     -      -
All     39    25    40                       156.0 112.5 180.0
Yala Season:
Paddy      -      -     -      -     -      -       -     -      -
OFC1       -      -     4      -     -   1.2        -     -   4.8
OIC2       -      -     3      -     -   1.1        -     -   3.3
All      -         -  7                          -      -   8.1
Total:
Paddy     39    25    40                       156.0 112.5 180.0
OlIC       -      -     4                           -     -   4.8
OFC2        -     -     3                           -     -   3.3
All     39    25    4?                       156.0 112.5 188.1
.1/ Present cropping intensity is 98S. Without project, cropping
intensity would remain unchanged during first five years and
decline thereafter to 63% over a period of ten years.
With project, cropping intensity vould Increase to118%.
-2/ Witbout project, paddy yields would remaia uncbanged for three
years and decllne thereafter as indicated, over ten year,.
_3/ OICi  indicates other field crops (OlCs) of lov value, such
as cow pea and green gram. OIC2 Indicates other high value
field crops such as chillies and onions.
January 30, 1991



ANNEX 11
-114-                                             Table  6
SRI LANUA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION BEBABILITATION PROJICT
CROP AREA, YIELD IND PRODUCTION
SCEhE: NITTENA
-2/
Area (ha)        Yield (WOtOha)    Production (n.t)
Crop                           ---                              .-
P     V/0'         P      b/0   I       P     3/0   N
Naha Season:
Paddy     22    17    22   3.6   2.7   4.0   79.2  45.9  88.0
OfCl  /    -      -     -      -     -      -       -     -      -
OEC2       -      -     -      -     -      -       -     -      -
All     22    17    22                        79.2  45.9  88.0
Tala Season:
Paddy      2      -     3   3.1   2.8   3.4    6.2        -  10.2
OICl       -      -     2      -     -   1.2        -     -   2.4
OFC2       -      -     1      -     -   0.9        -     -   0.9
All      2      -     6                        6.2      -  13.5
Total:
Paddy     24    17    25                        85.4  45.9  98.2
OICI       -      -     2                           -     -   2.4
OEC2              -     1                          -      -   0.9
All     24    17    28                        85.4  45.9 101.5
1/ Present cropplng intensity Is 109%. Wlithout project, cropping
iAtensity vould recain unchanged during first five years aid
decline thereafter to 77S over  a period of ten years.
1ith proJect, cropping intensity would increase to 1271.
2/ Without proJect, paddy yields would resain unchanged for three
years and decline thereafter as indicated, over ten years.
J/ OIC1 indicates other field crops (OICs) of low value, such
as cow pea and green gra. OIC2 indicates other high value
field crops such as chillies and onions.
January 30, 1991



-115-~ ~~~~AMX1
Table 7
SRI LANK
NATIONIL IRRIGATION RSIBILITATION PROJECT
PARE B1DG: KALTOTA _a
aba Paddy            Tala Paddy           Tala OICI        Tala OC2                 Total
P   W/o /               P   3/0   3  P 3/G I   P 3/0                              P   3,0 3
....    ....----        ---.   ....    ....   .... ... ........ ................    ....
Crop Area (ha)    0.4   0.32    0.4    0.4   0.32   0.39   - _            _     _      _   0.01       0.8    0.6    0.8
...........
Production Cost (8a/farm)
.............. ......
Seed                416    333    416    416    333    405   _   _          _    _    _       2       832    665    623
Labour           2,150  2,200  2,860  2,750  2,200  2,681   _   _           _    _    _   127    5,500  4,400  5,668
Poler            1,040    800  1,080  1,040    832  1,014   _   _           _    _    _    18    2,080  1,632  2,112
Urea               323    242    343    323    259    315   _   _           _    _    -       9       646    501    667
TSP                293    234    312    293    234    285   _   _           _           _      7      585    468    605
lop                 209    152    209    209    161    204   _   _          _      -    _      8      418    319    420
Chesicals          500    416    560    460    304    468   _   _           _      _    _    15       960    720  1,043
Other               340    272    360    340    212    335   _   _          _      _    _    15        680    544    110
,~~~~~~--                    ....    ....   -- --- ...    ... ..  ...                  .... .... ...    ...      --- --
Total Cost:      5,554  4,371  5,780  5,491  4,328  5,373   -   -           _      _    _   184   11,044  8,705 11,337
of which
Cash Costjc/  4,422  3,509  4,634  4,382  3,441  4,295   _   -            _     _    _   137    8,803  6,780  8,863
Cross Value of Production (Is/Farm)
.............  ..  ... ...
10,140  5,616 10,920  9,880  5,408 10,394   -   -           _     _    _   348   20,020 11,024 21,662
Iet Value of Production (Rla/arn)
................................
4,587  1,239  5,140  4,390  1,080  5,021   -   -           _     _    _   164    8,976  2,319 10,324
let far  Incoae (s/farm)Jd/
.......
5,119  2,101  6,286  5,499  1,967  6,099          -    -   _         _     211   11,217  4,244 12,798
. ............................. . ..... .... ....... .. .. ..,,............................. ..  . 
Source: feasibility Study Reports nd  lission Bstimates.                                          lote: P :  Present
ja/ Raed on farm size of .4 ba. ad 1991 financial prices  in Iane  12 , Table I                       3/0 : lithoiit
b/ Rased on yield and cropping intensities given in AtIne  11, Table I                                  3: 1ith
.e/ lssuing hired labour and farm power accounts for
60B   and 30S  of total labour and farm power costs, respectively.
d/ Including the value of fally labour and own farm power;
excluding otber farm Income and off-ftar incore.
february 6, 1991



-116-                                                  ANNEX 11
Table 8
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION R18ABILITATION P1OJ3C7
WARI BUDGITS: HARAGALNIWA
Naba Paddy            Yala Paddy           Yala OVCi         Yala OIC2                  Total
P    W/o   N    P   N/0  W   P W/o 1    P W/0                                     P    N/o W
Crop Area (ba)    1.1   0.85    1.1   0.06           -   0.11   -   _  0.03        _    _  0.02       1.16   0.85   1.26
Production Cost (Bs/fare)
Seed             1,126    665  1,126    133                131   -   _    36                    - _  _    1,259    665  1,295
Labour           6,958  4,111  7,260    751          _    822   -   _   125        _-          -    7,708  4,111  8,208
Power            2,860  1,625  2,970    338          -    351   -   -    81        _-           -    3,198  1,625  3,402
Urea                889    525    833       92       -      92     - _    30       _          _        981    525    955
TSP                 804    444    858       76       -      82   _   _    29       _    _       _      880    444    970
HOP                 470    247    575       62       _      68   _   _    31       _    _              532    217    674
Chesicals        1,265    683  1,320    143                169             33                        1,408    683  1,522
Other               990    553    990    104         _    107   _   _    88         -    _      _    1,094    553  1,185
Total Cost      14,097  8,170 14,612  1,556          _  1,656   -   -   421         -    -      -   15,653  8,170 16,689
of whicb:
Cash Costjc/ 10,863  6,233 11,246  1,195              1,285   -   -   355        -    -      -   12,538  6,4177 13,397
Gross Value of Production (Bs/farm)
28,958 15,120 31,185  3,247         -  5,002   -   - 1,466         -    -      -   32,204 15,120 37,653
let Value of Production (Is/Fars)
14,860  6,95% 16,573  1,691         -  3,346   -   - 1,046         - _         -   16,552  6,950 20,964
get fare Iacome Rs/farm) J/
18,094  8,887 19,939  2,051         -  3,716   -   - 1,111         -    -      -   19,666  8,643 24,256
... ......... .......... . .. ...... . . ......... .......... ...  ....... ....................
Source: feasibility Study Reports ad lission estimates.                                           Note:    P =  Present
_p/ Based on farm size of 1.1 ha. ad 1991 flancial prices given in An  nex 12, table I                   W/0 : Without
_b/ Based on yield and cropping Intensities given in Annex 11, Table 2                                      I   W Hith
e/ Assuming hired labour and fars power accounts for
60S and 40% of total labour ad farm power costs respectively.
_a/ Including the value of family labour and own fara power;
excluding other farm income and off-fara income.
February 6, 1991



-117-                                                    ANNEX 11
Tab le 9
SRI LANKA
dATIONAL IRRIGATION BRBABILITATION PROJICT
YARN BUDGET: DORABADA LITADDI .j/
Naha Paddy           Yala Paddy           Yala OICI        Yala OIC2                  total
P      li/O    11       P       /O       N    P   /0   1       P U/O N            P       W/o      I
Crop Area (ha)    0.2   0.14    0.2    0.2   0.14   0.17   _   _             _     _    _  0.02       0.40   0.28   0.39
Production Cost (Rse/are)
Seed                205    143    205    205    143    174   _4                                        410    287    382
Labour            1,380    924  1,500  1,260    840  1,173   _   _           _     _         222    2,640  1,764  2,895
Power               360    210    380    360    224    315   _   _           _     _    _    30        720    434    725
Urea                115      81    106    115       74    114   _   _        _     _    _    14        230    155    234
TSP                  98      61    107    107       68      99                                1 _  _  _    _    13  205    130    219
lOP                  55      32     64      92      58      86   _   _       _     _    _      9       147     90    160
Chemicals           160    112    180    160    112    153   _   _           _     _    _    25        320    224    358
Other               180    126    180    160    112    136   _   _           _     _    _    25        340    238    341
Total Coet:       2,396  1,564  2,542  2,299  1,519  2,114   _ -             -     -    -   317    4,695  3,083  4,973
of which
Cash Cost_c/  1,905  1,276  2,025  1,847  1,234  1,694    - -    -            -       -   256    3,752  2,397  3,794
Gross Value of Production (Is/Far.)
3,174  1,932  3,588  2,898  1,739  2,698    -  -           -          -   504    6,072  3,671  6,790
Net Value of Production (08/Farm)
778    368  1,046    599    219    584   -   -               _ _         187    1,377    588  1,817
get farm Incose (Rs/Farm)../
1,269    656  1,563  1,051    505  1,004   -   -           _     _    _   248    2,320  1,274  2,996
Source: Feasibility Study Reports and Mission estinates.                                         Note: P :  Present
-a/ Based on fars size of .2 ha. and 1991 financial prices given in Inn e  12, Table 1               N/O : Without
_b/ Based on yield and cropping intensities given in AInnex 11, table 3                                 N : With
c/ IAssuming hired labour and farm power accounts for
60% and 30S of total labour and farm pover costs, respectively.
_d/ Including the value of family labour and own fare pover;
excluding other fare Income and off-farm Incose.
February 8, 1991



ANNEX 11
-118-                                                            Table 10
S1I LalKA
NATIONIL IBBISATION IIBABILITATION PIOJKCT
fill BUDET: IOBIIGIAI  _a/
laba Paddy           Tala Paddy            Yala OIC1         Tala OIC2                   Total
P       W/o      N       P      R/O      N    P  U/O            P7   /0N             P       I/0      I
.. .. .. .... ... .. .. ....... ......    ....    ... .. .o......    ....   .....   . ..  .....  ......    .... ..... ....  . .....    ....
Crop Area (ha)   0.20   0.16   0.20            _       _       _   _   _  0.03       _    _  0.01        0.20   0.16   0.24
..............
Production Cost (Is/fara)
Seed                205    164    205         _12                                    0    0       2       205    164    219
Labour            1,265    968  1,320          _       _       _   _   _    76       0    0   135    1,265    968  1,531
Power               440    336    460          _-   -   -    34                      0    0    22         440    336    516
grea                154    115    173         _-   -   -    10                       0    0       9       154    115    192
TSP                 127      94    156                         -   -   -    12       0    0       8       127      94    176
HOP                 101      74    129         _          _    _ _ _.12               0    0      6       101    74       146
Cbesicals           220    156    240          =       _       _   _   _    14        0    0    20        220    156    274
Otber               180    144    180                          -   -   -    15       0    0    18        1t0    144    213
Total Cost:       2,534  1,906  2,682              -           -   -   -   169       -    -   201    2,534  1,906  3,052
of which
Cash Cost.c/  2,026  1,541  2,167               -            -   -   -   139       -    -   164    2,026  1,514  2,422
Gross Value of Production (ls/fare)
5,200  3,224  5,460             -           -   -   -   261        -    _   468    5,200  3,224  6,189
Net Value of Production (Is/fare)
2 666  1,318  2,778         -                -   -   -    92       -    _   267    2,666  1,318  3,137
let Tar Income (Rs/lara)Jd/
................................. ......................................... ......
3,174  1,683  3,293             -            -   -   -   122       _    _   304    3,174  1,710  3,768
Source: feasibility Study Reports anid lission estimates,                                           lote: P =  Present
_a  Based on fare size of .2 ba. and 1991 financial prices given in Inn ex 12, Table 1                   3/0 =Witbout
.J_/ Based oni yield and cropping lnteasities given in Innex 11, Table 4                                   U : With
_c/ assuming hired labour and farm power accounts for
65% and 30S  of total labour ad far  power costs, rospectively.
J/ Including the value of family labour and own  farm power;
excluding other farm Income and off-farn income.
february 6, 1991



ANNEX 11
-119-                                                  Table  11
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REBIBILI?TAION PROJlCT
VAIN BUDGET: NABR  llBI IBDEWA ./
Naha Paddy          Tala paddy           Yala OICI       Tula sOC2                 total
P      W/o      N      P  t /0             P  N/ON         P   N/0            P      N/O      N
Crop Area (ha)   0.35   0.22   0.36         -      -       -   _   _  0.04    _    _  0.03        0.35   0.22   0.42
Production Cost (Rs/fars)
seed               358    225    369        -      -       -      - -   22    _    _        5      358    225    395
Labour           2,520  1,518  2,700        -      -       -   -   -   112    -    -   347    2.520  1,518  3,220
Power              840    484    900               -       -   -   -    56    _    _    51         840    484  1,0t7
Urea               286    148    311        _      _       _        _    16    _          23       286    148    350
?SP                222    129    246                       -   -   -    12    _    _    22         222    129    280
lop                177    101    199                       -   -   -    15                 i s 16  177    101    230
Chemicals          438    264    504        _-   -   -    20    _    -    43                       438    264    567
Other              315    198    324                       -   -   -    22    _    _    40         315    198    386
Total Cost:      4,863  2,869  5,228        -      -       -   -   -   312    -    -   508    4,863  2,849  6,048
of ohich
Cash Cost_c/  3,853  2,297  4,157         -      -       -   _   _   246    -    -   411    3,853  2,239  4,683
Gross Value of Production (Rs/Fars)
9,100  4,433  9,594        -      -       -   -   -   517    -    -   788    9,100  4,433 10,898
get Value of Production (is/far.)
4,237  1,564  4,366        -      -       -   -   -   205    -    -   279    4,237  1,564  4,851
let farm Incose (s/Iarm)_d/
5,247  2,136  5,437               -       -   -   -   271    -    -   376    5,247  2,194  6,215
Source: feasibility study reports and lisslon estimates.                                      Note: P :  Present
ja/ Beased on farm size of 0.35 ha. and 1991 financial prices given in Annex 12, Table 1 1/0: Without
_b/ Based on yield and cropping Intensities given in Annex 11, Table 5                              3: With
_c/ Assuming hired labour and farm power accounts for
65S and 30S of total labour and farm power costs, respectively.
_d/ Including the value of family labour aDa own farm pover;
excluding other farm incose and off-fare incose.
Vebruary 6, 1991



ANNEX 11
-120-                                                  Table 12
SRI LANKU
NATIONIL IRRIGATION RIBABILITATION PROJECT
FARN BUDGIT: NITTEWA -a/
Naha Paddy           !ala Paddy           Yala OIC1        Tala OfC2                 Total
P      W/O      N       P      N/O          P  W/O  W        P   N/O W           P       W/I      U
---  --      --- .. ..    ....   ....      ... ... ...    ...  ...  ....    ..         -- --
Area              0.60   0.47   0.60   0.06          _   0.08   -   _  0.06    -    -  0.03          0.86   0.47   0.76
(ha)
Production Cost (Rs/Farm)
Seed               673    527    673        62       _      90   _   _    31    _    _        5       735    527    798
Labour           3,795  2,844  3,960    336          _    528   _   _   229    -    -   297    4,131  2,844  5,014
Power            1,440  1,034  1,500    105          _    156   _   -    86    -    -    53    1,545  1,034  1,795
Urea               346    226    403        32              541            16        - l     24       378    226    497
TSP                 410    298    410       22       _      39   _   _     24           - _. 23       431    298    496
fOP                386    281    386        18       _      33  _. _    23              - _    22     40i    281    464
Chemicals          660    447    720        50       _      88   _   _    28    _       -    44       710    447    880
Other              540    423    540        47       _      68   _   _    33            -    39       587    423    680
Total Cost:      7,732  5,656  8,052    624          -    988   -   -   436    _    _   468    8,357  5,656  9,944
of which
Cash Cost_c/  6,175  4,553  6,429    502           -    796   -   -   345       _    _   383    6,677  4,489  7,829
Gross Value of Production (ls/farm)
14,040  9,471 14,430  1,550         -  2,236   -   -   632        -    -   961   15,590  9,471 18,259
Net Value of Production (Rs/Fare)
6,308  3,815  6,378    926         -  1,248   -   -   196        -    -   493    7,233  3,815  8,315
let farm Incose (Bs/Farm)_d/
7,865  4,917  8,001  1,048         _  1,440   -   -   287        -    -   577    8,913  4,982 10,430
Source: Feasibility Study Revorts and hission estimates.                                         Note  P :  Present
a/ Based on farm size of 0.6 ha. and 1991 financial prices given in Amnex 12, Table 1   W/0: Without
_J, Based on yield and cropping intensities given in Annex 11, Table 6                                      W: Vith
_c/ Assuming hired labour and farm power accounts for
65S and 30S of total labour and farm power costs respectively.
_d/ Including the value of family labour and owa farm  power and
excluding other farm incose and off-fars income.
January 28, 1991



-121-                                                 ANNEX 12
Table 1
SRI LANKU
NATIONAL IRRIGATION BERABILITATION PROJECT
DIRIVATION Of ICONOWIC PRICES
Iaport Parity                        Rice   Urea   TSP    hOP
.....  ----   .. ---  .. ... .. ..
(US$/m.t)
Projected FOB Price:
1991  Price -a/                   270    170    149    103
Quality factor                       0.80   1.00   1.00   1.00
Adjusted FOB price                    216    170    149    103
freight & Insurance _b/                22      60     60     60
CII Value Colosbo                     238    230    209    163
(Rs/m.t)
CIF Value Colosbo, US$1:Rs4O         9507   9204   8370   6508
Port Charges, handling.c/             250    250    250    250
Transport to Wholesale Point_d/       400    995    995    995
Value, Narket store                 10157  10449   9615   7753
Transport, handling to Faragate_e/   800       25     25     25
Sub Total                            9357  10474   9640   7778
Processing Ratio                     0.68       1      1       1
Faragate Price                       636+  10474   9640   7778
... ... ........................... ................................................ ...... .. ...................... ..
-a/ Source: World Bank Conodity Price forecasts, Dec. 19, 1990.
.j/ Between Coloabo and Bangkok.
.c/  Average cost, converted  to border price values by SCF 0.85
_d/  Average 200 kb  transport costs, Coloubo-local market,
converted to border value by SCI 0.85.
_e/  Transport cost, local market-fars,  converted to border values
by SCF 0.85. Includes processing cost for paIdy.
February 6, 1991



ANNEX 12
- 122-                                                     'Tab le  2
SRI LAlA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION IEBABILITATION PBOJECT
SUNWARY 01 ICONONIC IND FINANCIAL PRICES -A
financial-b/            Economic
Outputs            Unit       (1991)          (1991) (2000) (2005)
.......                  ...........  .
Paddy           is/kg    6.50 - 7.6S         6.37   7.09   6.43 _c/
Cowpea           is/kg    9.10 - 9.70        7.99   7.99   7.99 _d/
Chillies        ts/kg   29.50 -35.50        27.63  27.63  27.63 _d/
Inputs
hertiliser:
Urea          I8/kg    9.20 - 10.40       10.47  11.37  10.86 _c/
ISP           Is/kg    9.60 -  9.75        9.64  10.99  11.05 .c/
lOP           Is/kg    8.75 -  9.50        7.78   8.29   8.29  s1/
Labour          ts/day  55.00 - 60.00       51.75  51.75  61.75 je/
Seed:
Paddy         Is/kg    9.25 -  9.75        8.08   8.08   8.08 _dl
Cowpea        Is/kg   11.50 - 12.50       10.20  10.20  10.20 _dl
Chillies      is/kg  175.00 -225.00    170.00 170.00 170.00 _d/
fare Power:     Bs/ha    2250 -2750          2125   2125   2125 _d/
leed/Pesticd'es islha      900 -1100          850    850    850 _dl
Source: feasibility Study Reports and Mission lstimates
-a/ In constant 1991 prices.
4/ Indicates the range of lowest and the bighest price used in the
analysis of the six appraised scheBes.
ec/ Derivation of economic prices given In Annex 12, Table 1
=d/ Idjusted by the SCI of .85
=e/ Unskilled labour wage  rate adjusted by Cf of .9
february 6, 1991



AUNNEX 1 2
-123-                                                          Table 3
SRI LANVA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUNNARY OF PROJECT ECONONIC BATE Of RETURN AND NET PRESENT VALUE
OF SIX APPRAISED SCHENES
ia8. 000)
Year    ------------------Incresental Net Benefit------------
laltota  babagal  Dorakada lobeigane Nahakiri Nittewa
weva      Liyadde              Ibbewa
1    (564)       (70)       (7)      (130)      (30)       (32;
2   (4,896)  (2,755)   (316)         (588)     (369)    (312)
3   (4,796)  (1,948)    (18)          (65)    (537)    (455)
4   (4,749)  (1,214)         62        186         67        50
5     (34)    1,626         101        255        155        86
6    3,849    2,046         168        387        307       185
7    8,243    2,495         171        397       472        223
8   12,360    2,872         179        413       557        278
9   16,339    3,350         180        419       581        290
10   16,751    3,389         183        424       600        293
11   16,387    3,382         178        413       603        282
12   15,954    3,465         175        403       588        273
13   15,522    3,380         170        394       586        265
14   15,090    3,568         167        381       570        258
15   14,691    3,575         162        373       555        258
16   14,661    2,999         162        373       555        258
17   14,661    2,999         162        373       555        258
18   14,661    2,999         162        373       555        258
19   14,661    2,999         162        373   .  555         258
20   14,661    2,999         162        373        555       258
21   14,661    2,999         162        373        555       258
22   14,661    2,999         162        373        555       258
23   14,661    2,999         162        373        555       258
24   14,661    2,999         162        373       555        258
25   14,661    2,999         162        373       555        258
-a/    36.10    29.81    30.40         30.60    30.89    21.51
_b/   58,509   12,423    1,454         1,716     2,229        827
-a/ Econosic Rate of Return
.b/ Net Present Value at 10 OCC
February 6, 1991



SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Performance Indicators
Unit    1991      1992      1993     1994      1995      1996     1997      Total
Completion Feasibility Studies and
Engineering Documents:
Minor Schemes                            ha       332    4.418    6,750       6,750   6,750         -        -        25,000
Medium/Major Schemes                     ha    2130    1.300   3.250    3.250   2570                -        -        12.500
Total                                   ha    2,462    5,718   10,000    10,000   9,320            -        -        37,500
Start Construction Works:
Minor Schemes                            ha         -       332    5,918      6,250   6,250    6,250         -        25,000
Medium/Major Schemes                     ha         -     2.130    1.300      3.250   3.250    2.570         -        12500 
Total                                   ha        -      2,462    7,218      9,500   9,500    8,820         -        37,500
Completion Construction Works:
Minor Schemes                            ha    2,600 a/   -           332     5,918   6,250    6,250       6,250      27,600
Medium/Major Schemes                     ha        -        -          -      2.000   3050    3,900        3550       12500
Total                                          2,600       -        332      7,918   9,300   10,150       9,800      40,100
Employment Institutional Organizers         No       24       120       315       465      375       165        36       1,500
Training:
Staff (in-country)                       No        -        290      385        360      270       30        -         1,335
Institutional Organizers                 No        24       214      499        520      197       16        -         1,470
Farmer Representatives                   No       270    1,100    2,920       5,070   5,600    4,404       2,450      21,814
Farmers                                  No       130       480    1,280      2,130   2,368    2,018       1,218       9,624
Trainers                                 No        50       136      120         20      -        -          -           326
a/ VIRP carry-over works
April 10, 1991                                                                                                                    2
'i



-125-                             ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Related Documents in Project File
1.       National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, Main ReporEi and
Feasibility Reports (18 volumes); Project Preparation Cell/Engineering
Consultants Ltd., November 1990.
2.       National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, Research Proposal for
Hydrological and Water Management Studies; Land and Water Use Division,
Ministry of Agricultural Development and Research, December 1990.
3.       Proposal for the Setting Up of a Dam Safety Unit in the Irrigation
Department; Irrigation Department, November 1990.
4.       Proposals for an Agricultural Extension Program under NIRP for Major,
Medium and Minor Schemes; Extension Division, Department of Agriculture,
December 1990.
5.       Outline of a Proposal for Socio-economic Studies of the National
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (NIRP); Department of Agricultural
Economics, University of Peradeniya, January 1991.
6.       National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, A Proposal for IIMI
Support; International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI)/Ministry of
Lands, Irrigation, and Mahaweli Development, February 1991.
7.       Recommendations of Special Committee on NIRP; November 1990.
8.       Provincial Council Administration, Main Issues and Recommendations;
S. Nadarajah, et al, Steering Committee, Public Sector Restructuring Project,
October 1990.
9.       Public Sector Restructuring Project, Irrigation Department; K.
Yoganathan, Director of Irrigation, November 1990.
10.      Farmer Organizations for Agricultural Development (draft), J.
Medagama, Commissioner of Agrarian Services, November 1990.
11.      National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, A Proposal for Effective
Participation of the Beneficiaries; N.G.R. de Silva, October 1990.
12.      Irrigated Agriculture and Irrigation Management in Sri Lanka:
Policies for the Next Decade and Beyond, Policy Working Paper No. 1 (Draft);
Irrigation Management Policy Support Activity (IMPSA), November 1990.



-126-
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
13.      Efficient Management of Irrigation Water in Village Tanks, A Report
Based on Experiences in Water Management under Village Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (VIRP) in Anuradhapura District (Draft); W.M.U.
Navaratne, Department of Agrarian Services, December 1990.
14.      An Assessment of the Effectiveness of the Programme for Integrated
Management of Major Irrigation Schemes; Agrarian Research and Training
Institute, April 1989.
15.      Socio Economic Evaluation of the Village Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project, Report No. 2; H.M.G. Herath, et al, Department of Agricultural
Economics and Extension, University of Peradeniya, March 1989.
16.      Environmental Issues in Irrigation Rehabilitation: the Need for a New
Approach; A.S. Widanapathirana, undated.



SRI LANKA
NATIONAL IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Management and Implementatfon
Organization Structure
I Pmentoo.comnulflso                   Pm*wWcl Cowdoi~i1 CoamnitZe
I               I .
-SMLMD    S_ecoaAgcu                  _Na ChSet
|hwigon         Ont of  |
DeJsnient       _
Dbecto         ;mos
hfkW  Rare        Unl            e a             o    *& gbnsMp   r 
O1111_                 _  Mangement Coell_  Regil Scpolt      ProvincilC
Dep Drft      - Design             ietrTas                           e. 
- oim D M
-LAiI-msoD
I  _ r _eDh s



IBRD 228/6
8D'~ ~~~~~~~~~~~e 8152'
ffti 4 X                                                                        SRI LANKA
. h J  - >3t\' \\%<\                                                      NATIONAL IRRIGATION
<2>                                       REHABILITATION PROJECT
MIES  _ ____0  30                                                                           LOCATION OF SCHEMES
om5(fEltS   O 10  2D 30  40  u0 \ro                                                                         Appraised Schemes:
gX  t      Medium ond Mojor Schemes
0      Minor Schemes
Monnrxr\s< \ r                                 S                                           jX, . Prepared Schemes
t \(:   .Medium and Major Schemes
Gulf              '5               -               S     @8  (             >                   t       Minor Schemes
of
Mcinn g8DTfKorab Agro-Climatic Zones
()   AnuradhapuraX,/                                    \       -      Major Roads
'-     4                  1'               0   Distdrict Capitals
/.I  Province Capitols
/    Nationol Capital
-     International Boundary
\ ,  \  <            >   t g    0 ~~~        ~     ~~73  nne
14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
0\       t ~) I                                       iAt} 2r^/iLx #  -. d  g Ba1tr icaloa
^ ~~ tnegol~~an  T) Et|         
l~~               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ f                                    TH ArDSl 's 1
COLOMBO                                                                                                                            7 -
I AMohGo  (4ogah~i.d oarVw\\  o%                                                    </ia a 
2                       \0--                      Ratnapua
4 oVt..oi b6,
a Cookd.I WA.o, El. ai-...
B Wbd Bad-w Eb D-in\  \ 
9 G.W-ohlb..   El. Di.... n                                                                                             INDIA
10 Bdfaj a- D - 1\g< r                                                                                 
2I P.tlfk.yo~  Tork
:3 Nl4x1%wdoTori- Glle                                                                                                                 SRI
LANKA
15 &..ro A,bh. El. . Cc, ..
16 F9.1. Mbo El. 0....-.
17 Ubkob A- D9i-nicA BD9l
FEBRUAt 1991



