Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2260 CE
           (National Irrigation Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 24, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2260 CE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 24, 1991, between DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself
as to the feasibility and priority of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested
the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the
European Economic Community (EEC) a grant (the EEC Grant)
in an amount of ECU 3,340,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the EEC Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and EEC; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Agrarian Services Act" means the Agrarian
Services Act No. 58 of 1979 as amended lastly by Act No.
4 on February 23, 1991;
      (b)   "Irrigation Ordinance" means the Irrigation
Ordinance No. 32 of 1946 (Chapter 453) as amended lastly
by Act No. 34 on September 6, 1990;
      (c)   "Farmers Organization" means a farmers'
organization established under the Agrarian Services Act,
and operating with certain powers conferred under the
Irrigation Ordinance;
      (d)   "minor irrigation scheme" means an irrigation
scheme with a command area of less than 80 hectares;
      (e)   "medium and major irrigation scheme" means an
irrigation scheme with a command area of at least 80
hectares; and
      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 21,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in a bank and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1998 or such later date as the Association shall
Page  3
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year,
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from
the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on March 15 and September
15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
March 15 and September 15  commencing September 15, 2001
and ending March 15, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on March 15, 2011 shall
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national
product per capita, as determined by the Association,
shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant
Page  4
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association
determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out or cause to be carried out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, agricultural and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower
and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to
                  in paragraph (a) of this Section
                  including those for the Special Account
                  for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than
                  nine months after the end of each such
                  year, a certified copy of the report of
                  such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the
Page  5
                  Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records,
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report
                  for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                  payment out of the Special Account was
                  made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to
                  in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
                  the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to
                  whether the statements of expenditure
                  submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   the Agrarian Services Act or the Irrigation
Ordinance shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as, in the judgment of the
Association, to materially affect the carrying out of the
Project; and
      (b)         (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
paragraph:
                  (A)   The right of the Borrower to
                        withdraw the proceeds of any loan or
                        grant made to the Borrower for the
                        financing of the Project shall have
                        been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part,
                        pursuant to the terms thereof, or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due
                        and payable prior to the agreed
                        maturity thereof.
           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
Page  6
                  not apply if the Borrower establishes to
                  the satisfaction of the Association that:
                  (A) such suspension, cancellation,
                  termination or prematuring is not caused
                  by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                  any of its obligations under such
                  agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower
                  from other sources on terms and
                  conditions consistent with the
                  obligations of the Borrower under this
                  Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to
the proviso of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the EEC Grant Agreement has been executed by
the Borrower and EEC; and
      (b)   the proposed work program, budget and staff
requirements for the fiscal year 1992 specified in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, have been
received by the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
            Colombo, Sri Lanka
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  SECMINFIN                 FINMIN 21409
                  Colombo                   FORAID 21232
      For the Association:
            International Development
Page  7
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                  By /s/ Susantha de Alwis
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works under         15,900,000       95%
     Part A of the
     Project (including
     construction
     materials)
(2)  Geotechnical investi-        300,000       100%
     gations and engi-
     neering surveys under
     Part A of the Project
(3)  Administration and         1,110,000        50%
     engineering under
     Part A of the Project
(4)  Equipment, vehicles          740,000        100% of foreign
     and spares                                 expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
Page  8
                                                cost) and 70%
                                                of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5)  Expenditures for           1,850,000              100%
     building rentals,
     salaries, travel and
     agricultural demon-
     strations under
     Part B of the Project
(6)  Consultants'                  80,000              100%
     services
(7)  Unallocated                1,920,000
                               __________
      TOTAL                    21,900,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than
that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
and
      (c)   in determining the percentage of expenditures
to be financed under Category (1), the contributions of
farmers organizations are to be excluded.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
       (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 890,000, may be made
on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after December 31, 1990; and
      (b)   expenditures in the Northern and Eastern
Provinces unless and until:
            (i)    on-site appraisal has been completed to
                   the satisfaction of the Association, of
                   schemes selected by the Association; and
           (ii)    implementation arrangements satisfactory
                   to the Association have been made.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to protect and
increase agricultural production and incomes, through:
(i) rehabilitation and improved operation and maintenance
of irrigation schemes, (ii) skills upgrading of farmers
and staff of implementing agencies, and (iii) formation
Page  9
of farmers organizations to manage irrigation schemes.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:
Part A:     Works
      Rehabilitation and improvement of about 1,000 minor
and about 60 medium and major irrigation schemes covering
about 37,500 hectares.
Part B:     Farmers Organizations
1.    Establishment of Farmers Organizations to manage
irrigation schemes referred to in Part A above.
2.    Improvement in operation and maintenance of
irrigation schemes referred to in Part A above.
Part C:     Training
      Training of farmers and staff of implementing
agencies in technical and management aspects of
irrigation rehabilitation, and operation and maintenance.
Part D:     Environmental Protection
1.    Environmental protection works.
2.    Environmental protection studies.
Part E:     Institutional Support
1.    Formation of units responsible for irrigation
research management, dam safety and quality control.
2.    (a)   Hydrological and water management study; and
      (b)   Socio-economic study of irrigation
rehabilitation schemes.
Part F:     Technical Assistance
      Technical assistance in:
1.    planning and implementation of rehabilitation and
improvement of irrigation works, and of improved
operation and maintenance of such works; and
2.    impact assessment studies of irrigation
rehabilitation and improvement.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
       Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985
Page  10
(the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured
in Sri Lanka may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs
1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Works may be carried out under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Works, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$5,500,000, may be carried out under force account by
Farmers Organizations in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Geotechnical investigations and engineering surveys
may be carried out in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
or under force account.
4.    Items estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or
less per item, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement
Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards
and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, and
each contract for vehicles, equipment and spares
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by
the preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
Page  11
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes
of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall by June 30, 1992 and by June 30
of each year thereafter furnish to the Association for
review, the proposed work program, budget and staff
requirements at the central and provincial levels for the
Project for the following fiscal year, together with the
actual staff positions and recommendations with regard to
the division of responsibilities between the central and
provincial implementing agencies.
2.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   by June 30, 1992 furnish to the Association for
review, a plan for organizational arrangements for the
irrigation sector; and
      (b)   by December 31, 1992 furnish to the Association
a timetable for the implementation of recommendations
agreed with the Association.
3.    The Borrower shall by December 31, 1991 appoint in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, consultants to assist in carrying out Part
F.1 of the Project.
4.    Without limiting the generality of Section 9.04 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall under
arrangements satisfactory to the Association cause the
dams and related structures constructed or rehabilitated
under the Project to be periodically inspected in
accordance with sound engineering practice in order to
determine whether there are any deficiencies in the
condition of such struc-tures, or in the quality and
adequacy of maintenance or methods of operations of the
same, which may endanger their safety. To this end, the
Borrower shall propose to the Association appropriate
arrangements for the Association's review by December 31,
1992.
5.    The Borrower shall select schemes to be implemented
under Part A of the Project in accordance with criteria
outlined in the Annex to this Schedule.
                         ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
                      Criteria for Selection
              of Schemes under Part A of the Project
1.    The proposed schemes are listed in the Borrower's
inventory of operational schemes.
Page  12
2.    A Farmers Organization has been established and
registered to manage the irrigation scheme.
3.    The Farmers Organization contributes at least 10% of
rehabilitation and improvement cost in labor or other
form.
4.    The Farmers Organization operates and maintains the
scheme in accordance with a plan acceptable to the
central or provincial implementing agencies.
5.    The Farmers Organization:
      (a)   bears the full cost of operation and
maintenance of minor irrigation schemes after
rehabilitation and improvement works are completed;
      (b)   (i)    bears the full cost of operation and
                   maintenance of the distributary and
                   field canals of medium and major
                   irrigation schemes after rehabilitation
                   and improvement works are completed; and
            (ii)   bears the cost of operation and
                   maintenance of head works and main
                   canals of medium and major irrigation
                   schemes starting 2 years after
                   rehabilitation and improvement works are
                   completed.
6.    The command area of the scheme is not less than 4
hectares and benefits at least 10 families.
7.    The investment cost of works is not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,000,000 in 1991 prices.
8.    For a medium and major irrigation scheme, the rate
of return is to be at least 15%.
9.    For a minor irrigation scheme, the base cost of
rehabilitation and improvement is not to exceed the
equivalent of $750 per hectare in 1991 prices.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly
Page  13
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request
or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special
                   Account, the Borrower shall furnish to
                   the Association requests for deposits
                   into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such
                   request, the Borrower shall furnish to
                   the Association the documents and other
                   evidence required pursuant to
                   paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis
                   of each such request, the Association
                   shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such
                   amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown
                   by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective
eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents
and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of
this Schedule, the Association shall not be required to
make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by
the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures
Page  14
as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only
after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account
will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the
Association, refund to the Association all or any portion
of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
