CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 406 IVC
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 28, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 406 IVC
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 28, 1973


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 1973, between RE-
PUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST (hereinafter called the Bor-
rower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion
of Sections 5.01 and 6.02(h) thereof and to the renumber-
ing of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof (said General
Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements
of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
SECTIoN 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following terms have the following
meanings:
(a) the term "DGTP" means the Direction GInrale
des Travaux Publics, a department of the Borrower's
Ministere des Trazaux Publics et des Transports; and
(b) the term "Transport Survey" means the study fi-
nanced under the Plans of Operation (Transport Survey
Phase I and II) between the Borrower, the United Nations
Development Programme and the Bank, dated October 31,
1968 and July 21, 1970, respectively.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred
thousand dollars ($7,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be
made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services sup-
plied from, such territories.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services (other 0-an services of con-
sultants) required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be )rocured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April
1972 and revised in October 1972, and in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1976 or such other date as shall I)e agreed between the Bor-
rower and the Association.


﻿5
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/ of 1% ) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTIoN 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
SECTIoN 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable
on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1983,
and ending January 15, 2023, each installment to and
including the installment payable on January 15, 1993 to
be one-half of one per cent (  of 1%ec) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1%  ) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.08. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out, or cause
DGTP to carry out, the Project with due diligence and ef-
ficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, ad-
ministrative and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and. other
resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
supervision of the construction of Parts A and B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) In carrying out Part D of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association upon


﻿terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and
shall furnish the Association, promptly upon their comple-
tion, with a copy of the report and recommendations of the
said consultants.
SECTION 3.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be em-
ploved contractors acceptable to the As-ociation upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the im-
ported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the
Project.
SECTIO2 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents
and construction and procurement schedules for the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's ac-
credited representatives to examine the Project, the goods
financed out of the proceed,s of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the As-


﻿7
sociation all such information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
SECTION 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such steps as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such
rights of way as shall be required for carrying out the
Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
obtaining such rights, evidence satisfactoi.y to the Associa-
tion that such rights of way are available for purposes
related to the Project.
SECTION 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the civil works included
in the Project in conformity with the design standards set
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Bor-
rower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the roads and
bridges in its highway system to be adequately maintained
and shall cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made
promptly, in accordance with appropriate engineering prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, equipment, services and other resources required
for the foregoing.
SECTIOx 4.03. (a) The Borrower (i) shall maintain a
road inventory of all roads, the construction or mainte-


﻿nance of which were financed in part out of the proceeds
of a loan from the Bank or a credit from the Association;
(ii) shail collect in accordance with appropriate statistical
methods and procedures such technical, economic and finan-
cial information as shall be reasonably required for proper
planning of maintenance, improvements, and extensions
of the road sNsten of the Borrower; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association such information in respect of the fore-
going as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall (i) maintain, within the DGTP, an appro-
priately staffed unit with responsibility for carrying out
traffic counts on a regular basis, and (ii) take the measures
necessary to strengthen the planning functions of DGTP
and provide DGTP with such staff and resources as shall
be necessary to enable it to carry out these functions.
SECTION 4.04 (a) The Borrower shall ensure that its
traffic rules and regulations relating to vehicle dimensions,
weights and speeds are appropriate to the geometric and
structuraI standards of the Borrower's road system and
shall take all necessary action to implement and enforce
such traffic rules and regulations, and without limitation on
the obligations contained in the foregoing, the Borrower
shall ensure that unless otherwise agreed with the Associa-
tion the present 10-ton axle load limit will be maintained.
(b) The Borrower shall inform the Association of the
results of the review of its road transport regulations
which it will undertake and shall exchange views with the
Association with regard to such results before any sub-
stantial change in those regulations shall be made.
SECTION 4.05. Upon completion of the road-user taxa-
tion study financed in part out of the proceeds of the loan
provided under the Loan Agreement (Second Highway
Project) dated June 22, 1971 between the Borrower and
the Bank, the Borrower shall provide the Association with


﻿w                                  9
copies of the reports and recommendations resulting from
that study, review the said recommendations with the
Association and determine in consultation with the Asso-
ciation such measures as may be necessary to give effect
to those recommendations which shall be appropriate.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall, from time to time, at the request of
either party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the admin istra-
tion, operations, resources an(d explenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Bor-
rower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project,
the selection of roads for inclusion in the Borrower's three-
year investment program   for the years 1974-1976, the
formulation and implementation of the Borrower's 1976-
1980 National Development Plan in respect of the trans-
port sector, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its
balance of payments, and the external debt of the Bor-
rower, of any of its political subdivisions and of any agency
of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as


﻿10
the Association siall rensonably request concerning the
athiniiistratiol, operations, resources and expenditures, in
respect of the Project, of the departmnts or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the
Project.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with,
or threatens to interfere with, lie accomplishment of the
plirposes of the (Iredit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the perforimance by eitber of them of its obliga-
tions under the Developient Credit Agreement.
SE'rION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to visit anv pcart of the territories of the Borrower for
puiposes related to the Credit.
ARTIOLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SET1x O6.01. Tlv principal of, and service charges on,
the  redit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
SErTio  6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from nily taxes on or in connection with the execu-
tion, delivery or registration thereof, iiposed under the
laws of the Borrower or Liws in effect in its territories.
SECTIoN 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and
service eftarges on, the Credit shall be freC from all restric-
tions, regulations, conf rols and nioratoria of any nature
imposed nider the laws of the Borrower or laws in effeet
in its territories.


﻿w                                   11
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the princi-
pal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service
charges shall become due and payable immediately, any-
thing to the contrary in the Development Credit Agree-
ment notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section
10.01 (b) of the General Coniditions, namely, that the Bor-
rower has retained the consultants that the Borrower is
required to employ pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement.
SECIroN 8.02. The date February 1, 1974 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Article IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿12                                              W
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. The Ministre   de   l'Economie  et des
Finances of the Borrower is designated is representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the
General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere do 1'Economie et des Finances
B. P. 1766
Abidjan
Ivory Coast
Cable address:
MINIFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
Ix WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective


﻿13
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
writtei.
REPUBLIC OF TIIE IVORY COAST
By /s/ TIMOTHEE N'GUETTA AH-oUA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ XAVIER DE LA RENAUDIERE
Director
Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in      % of
Dollar       Expenditures
Category          Equivalent)   to be Financed
I. Civil works under      5,100,000  60% of total ex-
Part A of the Project             penditures (repre-
senting the
estimated foreign
exchange
component)
II. Civil works under       750,000  60v of total ex-
Part B of the Project             penlditures (repre-
senting the
estimated foreign
exchange
component)
III. Consultants' services  50,000   100% of foreign
for construction                  expenditures
supervision
IV. Feeder road study         50,000  100% of foreign
expenditures
V. Unallocated             1,050,000
TOTAL              7,500,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term  "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories, and in the currency, of any country other than


﻿the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the terri-
tories of which goods are produced or from the territories
of which services are supplied, expenditures in such cur-
rency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures"; and
(b) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreigii expeiidituires and of expenditures for goods pro-
duced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the
Borrower.
8. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
(b) payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third col-
umn of the table in paragraph 1. above in respect of any
Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such
taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no
proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of
payments for such taxes.
4. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph 1 above:
(a) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allo-
cated to such Category and no longer required therefor
will be reallocated by the Association by increasing cor-
respondingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b) if the estimate of the expenditures under any Cate-
gory shall increase, the percentage set forth in the third


﻿16
column of the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of such
expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such in-
crease, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by
the Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such
Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, sub-
ject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as
determined by the Association, in respect of any other ex-
penditures; and
(c) if the Association shall have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Sec-
tion 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such item
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate
of total expenditures under Category I or II shall increase
and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A. Construction of the Yabayo-Gagnoa Road (about 79
km);
B. Reconstruction of the N'zi Bridge over the N'zi River;
(. Supervision of the civil works included in Parts A and
B; and
D. A feasibility study of feeder roads in cotton growing
areas.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1976.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Bidders shall be required to prequalify, and the Bor-
rower shall, before qualification is invited, inform  the
Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequali-
fled bidders, together with a statement of their qualifica-
tions and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Association for its comments before the applicants are
notified and the Borrower shall make such additions to or
deletions from the said list as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
(b) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its conents, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding docu-
ients, together with a description of the advertising pro-
cedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modifi-
cation to the bidding documents shall require the Associa-
tion's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is
made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder to
whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to
the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids re-
ceived, together with the reasons for the intended award.


﻿19
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth
or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.
(d) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Association promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Ac-
count in respect of any such contract.
2. With respect to any other contract, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Ac-
count in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, rec-
ommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not
consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
Yabayo-Gagnoa Road
Design speed               80   km/h
Maximum grade:
normal                     6  per cent
exceptional               7.5 per cent
Pavement width              6   m with two 20 cm wide
curb-lines
Shoulder width              2.5 m
Width of bridge
(curb to curb)            7.5 m
Design axle load
(for pavement)           10   tons
N'zi Bridge
Overall width              10.5 m
Curb to curb width          7.5 m
Length                     175  m
Maximum design loading          specification French
Ministry of Equipment


