Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
MAY 16, 1991
Human Resources Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This docurment has a restricted distribution and mav be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banli authorization.
r~~~~~~~~~~~~



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Gourde (G)
G 1 - US$0.20
G 5 = US$1.00
Since 1919, the Gou-de has been pegged to the US dollar at the above rate.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
km  =  kilometer    (1km =  0.62 miles)
m  =  meter         (Im  =  3.28 feet)
m2  =  square meter (lm2 = 10.76 ft2)
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ACADEMIC YEAR
October 1 - June 1



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBUVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADEPP       Association des Directeurs d'Ecoloo Priv&ex de Port-au-Prince
(Association of Port-au-Prince Primary School Directors)
CEEC        Conf6rence Episcopale de 1'Eglise Catholique
(Episcopal Conference of the Catholic Church)
CEFOPAFOP   Centre de Formation et do Perfectionnement des Agents de 1.
Fonction Publique
(Center for Professional Development for Public Administration
Personnel in Public Administration)
DEF         Direction do l'Education Fondamentale
(Department of Primary Education)
DFP         Direction de la Formation Professionnelle
(Department of Professional Training)
DGS         Direction du G4nie Scolaire
(Civil Works Department)
FEPH        F5d6ration des Ecoles Protestantes Haitiennes
(Federation of Haitian Protestant Schools)
FONHEP      Fondation Haitienne de l'Enseignement Priv6
(Haitian Foundation for Private Education)
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
HIV         Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IDA         International Development Association
INAGHEI     Institut National d'Administration, de Gestion et des Hautes
Etudes Internationales
(National Institute for Management Administration and Higher
International Studies)
INFP        Institut National de Formation Professionnelle
(National Institute for Vocational Training)
IPN         Institut P6dagogique National
(National Pedagogical Institute)
MEF         Ministere de 1'Economie et des Finances
(Ministry of Economy and Finance)
LSMS        Living Standards Measurement Survey
MENJS       Ministire de l'Education Nationale, de la Jeunesse
et des Sports
(Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports)
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PROBED      Projet Bilat6ral d'Education
(Bilateral Project for Education)
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNESCO      United Nationo Education, Science, and Culture Organization
UPEF        Unit6 des Projets d'Education et de Formation
(Basic and Vocational Education Project Implementation Unit)
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
STAIF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page Number
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKARY                    .. . .. .. .. . . ............................  iv
I.    INTRODUCTION ....................................... ...........  ..... o.     I
II.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR ....................... o   ............ .                3
Background ... ..-   ............ ..oo ..        ...........  ..o  ... ... o.  3
The Public Education Sector .......... . ... ......... .0..-. .               4
The Private Education Sector            .       ...................           5
Main Issues in Basic Education   .o.                . .....        ...        7
Government Strategy ....  . ...........  .o........ ***ooo.                  11
IDA Country and Sector Strategy ......         ........    -oo .....         11
Rationale for IDA Involvement           ................. .....              12
III_  THE PROJECT ... .   .....      .....  - ... ........  .....o.. .              13
Project Origin ...... ..... ...... . * . . ....... ... ..........            13
Project Objectives ........ . ..  ...... o ..... ........ ... .   .e.    13
Project Description .......- ................ .......   .                    14
A. Sector Policy and Investment Program Development                        14
B. Quality Improvement Componentn........ .......                          18
C. Resource Management Component  ..........o ..            .......       21
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..........o......................                      22
Project Implementation          ............. - ........ ....... .  .... .   22
Monitoring and Evaluation .. .. ... .  .... .oo- ...... ...-.. ...... . .    24
VY     PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .............. .             . .-. ..... .-. .   25
Project Costs- ......... . .         0 ....      .... ...... .......... .    25
Basis of Cost Estimatesoioe........ ........ ....... ..s. .....              26
Contingency Allowances ................... ....... ....... . .               26
Project Financing......           *.. .*. ....    .0-. .....                 26
Procurement         ... ........                                             28
Disbursements  - ........  ....  .... ....... . .... ...                     28
Accounts and Audits         utits. . ..........  .... ........... ....       30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard (Mission Leader), Jean Moisset (Education Specialist
CIDA), Uli Locher (Private Sector Management), Jacques Waechter (Architect), who
visited Haiti in September 1990.   It also incorporates input from an earlier
preparation work led by Alain Tobelem. Helen Abadzi contributed substantially
to the appraisal after the return of the mission.   M. Grosch and A. Tobel-m



-iii-
(LATHR) were the peer reviewers of the Staff Appraisal Report.
Table of Contents (cont.)
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS .......................................... ...o.  31
Benefits ...................... * ........ o...................    31
Risks   .     ........ *.,*..    .......        .. .......         31
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .        .....*.......    31
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex I:    Basic Socioeconomic Indicators
Annex II:   Recent Developments in Haitian Education
Annex III:  Organizational Charts
Figure 1:   Organizational Chart of MENJS
figure 2:   Organizational Chart of FONHEP
Annex IV:   Public Expenditures in Education
Annex V:    The Role of the Private Sector in Education
Annex VI:   Statistical Information on the Education Sector
Table 1: Evolution of Primary School Enrollments
Table 2: Geographical Distribution of Educational Resources
Table 3: Formal Education of Teachers
Annex VII:  History of IDA Involvement in the Education Sector
Annex VIII: Sector Policy and Program Development
Annex IX:   Policy Letter
Annex X:    Project Tables
Table 1: Project Components by Year
Table 2: Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Table 3: Summary Accounts by Year
Table 4: Summary Accounts by Project Component
Table 5: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table 6: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 7: Implementation Schedule
Annex XI:   List of Documents in the Project File
HAP: IBRD No. 22879



-iv-
H A I T I
FIFTH EDUCATI0i; PROJECTr
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Hait.
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports  (MENJS), Haitian
Foundation for Private Education (FONHEP), and the Ministry of
Economy and Finance.
Amount:            SDR  9.40 million  (US$12.61 million equivalent'
Terms:             Standard IDA terms vith 40 years maturity
Proiect            The project would seek to maintain the gains made in public
Obiectives         and private basic education through the previous four IDA
and                projects and to prepare for future development.  It would
Description        finance transitional measures to permit resuming long-term
improvements in the access, quality, and efficiency of basic
education with emphasis on the first four years of schooling,
and on the rural and poorest schools.   Specifically,  the
project would seek to:   (a) Prepare recommendations  and
corresponding action plans for a sustainable sector Policy and
investment program development in the areas of: primary-level
instructional delivery; educational finance; organizational
structure; and school construction and maintenance.
(b) Consolidate prior invest-nt benefits in primary-level
quality improvement in the pt    Iand private sectors t!hough:
(i) training, and providing Jaans of travel to pedagogical
advisors who would render technical support at the school
level; (ii) providing inservice training to selected school
personnel and administrators; (iii) providing textbooks and
teachers' manuals in schools of limited resources serving low
income   students;   (iv)   developing   and   administering
end-of-cycle (4th grade) achievement tests; (v) reconstructing
or rehabilitating 48 schools with limited resources, and
providing the furniture and equipment to those schools and an
additional 70 schools; and (vi) continuing and expanding a
technical support program to private schools which agree to
comply with performance criteria and to be monitored,
including  teachers'  salary  supplement.    (c) Improve  the
resource management of the sector by: (i) updating MENJS's
personnel management, budgeting, and monitoring systems; (ii)
rationalizing the administrative and accounting procedures of
MENJS, the National Foundation for Private Education (FONHEP),
and the participating schools; and (iii) financing the project
administration through the project implementation unit as well
as through the FONHEP.   The project would also require
adequate level of funding for recurrent expenditures in MENJS.



_v 
Benef ts:          The project's main benefits would be consolidation of the
gains of the previous education projects with respect to the
1982 education reform, support to the Govarnment's priority to
the   education   sector,   the   quality   improvement   and
encouragement to the privata sector to participate in an
integrated sector development effort. The project would also
prepare and carry out the preliminary measures needed to
support future lending with far-reaching modernization and
efficiency   objectives.   The leadership of FONHEP and the
participation of NGOs which operate private schools would
contribute to improve donor coordination, and to alleviate
some aspects of poverty.   A large number of private- and
public-sector personnel would be trained or retrained,
including 42 educational advisors as well as 6,400 teachers
and administrators. Also, 70,000 students would gain access
to textbooks. Female students would benefit from increased
access to education, and attention to soil erosion in school.
would prevent environmental damage.
Risks:             The project faces major risks.  They are associated with the
possibility of continued financial distress, economic
instability, and an uncertain sociopolitical environment.
These risks have been min-imized in four ways: (a) the
transitional character of the project, its small size and
short tike-frame would facilitate project execution; (b) the
participation and strengthening of the private sector would
help ensure continuity and timely project executioni (c) the
reorganization of the project unit with fewer, better
qualified, and motivated staff would facilitate the management
and coordination of the project; and (d) the establishment and
maintenance of a coordinating committee would ensure that the
project receives adequate support from the relevant partners
in the sector and from the donor community.



-vi-
Zstimated CostA (a3cluding taxes):
Locgl  Foreign  Totol
----- US$ million-----
Policy Development                                      0.17   0.47    0.64
Quality Improvement                                     6.58   3.23    9.81
Resource Managem.ut                                     2.62   0.14    2.76
Base Costs                                              9.37   3.84   13.21
Physical Contingencies                                  0.31   O.i9    0.50
Price Contingencies                                     0.46   0.34    0.80
Total Project Coats                                    10.14   4.37   14.51
Financing Plan:
Local Foreign Total
--US$ million----
Government (including UNDP)                             1.90   0.00    1.90
IDA                                                     8.24   4.37   12.61
Total                                                  10.14   4.37   1A.51
Estimated Disburements:
-US$ million-----
IDA Fiscal Year                                 FY92    FY93   FY94   FY95
Annual                                           1.8      4.3    3.5    2.0
Cumulative                                       1.8      6.1   10.6   12.6
Rate of Return:   N/A



HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       Haiti is a small, densely populated, and predominantly rural
country with an open economy. Its 6.3 million inhabitants occupy 28,000
square kilometers, the western end of the island of Hispaniola, and are among
the poorest in the world, with a per capita GNP of US$400 (1989).  Their
poverty is unmatched in the western hemisphere: the infant mortality rate is
116 per 1,000 live births, and some 65 percent of adult Haitians are
illiterate. Declining rural incomes have led to substantial rural-urban and
international migration. The total population is growing at 1.8 percent per
annum, net of emigration of 0.5 percent, while the urban population is
expanding by four percent (Annex I). Family planning efforts, largely by non-
governmental organizations, have yet to show widespread results. About 25 to
30 percent of the labor force is unemployed.
1.2       Three-quarters of the population live in the rural areas, and
depend on agriculture, the output of which has increased little since the
early 1970s. Physical production per capita has fallen steadily as population
pressure has forced peasants to cultivate even more marginal hillside land. A
shortage of arable land, coupled with insecurity of tenure and the demand for
wood for energy, has generated a relentless process of deforestation and soil
erosion. In recent decades, output and employment have shifted toward urban
activity. Agriculture now accounts for only one-third of GDP compared with
one-half in the early 1950s.
1.3       The economic growth and limited social gains of the 1970s were lost
during the 1980s. In the second half of the 1970s, economic growth, averaging
5.3 percent per annum, allowed for some improvement in real per capita income.
This was mainly due to increases in public investment supported by foreign
aid, and a large expansion in Haiti's export assembly industry. The export
base remained narrow, however, and sensitive to world price fluctuations and
to hurricanes, with coffee accounting for about 20 percent of all exports. In
1980-85, Haiti pursued policies that increased the inefficiency and inequity
of the economic system. Large portions of public revenues and public
borrowing were deployed to undertake capital expenditures that were
uneconomic or unaccounted for, and tourism also declined. This led to
significant erosions of the country's income, living standards and finances.
To reform the economic system, policies from March 1986 to November 1987
focused on reform of taxes, public expenditure, public enterprises, monopolies
and industrial incentives, trade liberalization, and agricultural pricing.
Expenditures were also reallocated and education and health spending were
increased by over 20 percent in real terms. The reform measures began to
stabilize and restructure the economy during 1986/87, and economic growth
resumed. However, the collapse of coffee export volume and prices and, in the
latter half of 1987, the disturbances related to the electoral process



- 2 -
compounded the effects of the added competition; the upsurge of contraband
imports reduced the effectiveness of reforms. The economic conditions from
1988 on, a period of recurrent political crises, have been characterized by
work stoppages, investor uncertainty, shortfalls in public revenues, and the
suspension of vital external assistance.
1.4       Haiti's per capita GDP is estimated to have declined by more than
one percent in the twelve-month period ending September 1989. Investment
activities also declined and consumer prices rose by 15 percent. At the same
time, the premium on the US dollar in the perallel market rose from about 20
percent in September 1988 to over 35 percent in September 1989. The balance
of payments deteriorated further. The value of both exports and imports of
goods and services decreased. As a result, the current account deficit of the
balance of payments remained at about 5 percent of GDP. The Government
adopted an economic program for FY89-90 in an effort to reduce inflationary
pressures, strengthen the balance of payments, and help reverse the decline in
investment and economic activity. After Haiti cleared its arrears to the IMF,
a Stand-by arrangement for SDR 21 million was approved in September 1989 to
sustain a stabilization program. However, the program could not be maintained
because of weak revenue growth, rising public spending, and increased Central
Bank deficit financing.
1.5       Although constant in real terms, the wage bill has used up the
growth of operating budgets, and the already limited execution capacity of
public entities has been reduced. The wage bill grew from 48 percent of the
current expenses of the treasury in 1986 to 61 percent in 1989 and was 70
percent of the budget for the first quarter of 1990. To pay the growing
number of civil servants, the Government reduced counterpart funding for the
investment program and non-salary recurrent expenditures, including basic
maintenance and operating expenditures. Capital outlays declined from 5.8 to
3.9 percent of the GDP after 1987. Streamlining of the payroll is now the
only Government option for limited budgetary reallocations. Some entities now
lack operating budgets for basic supplies, making field supervision impossible
and causing virtual paralysis. Weakened authority lines in all agencies of
the public sector hamper corrective actions.
1.6       The GoverDnment of President Aristide assumed power on February 7,
1991, following an overwhelming victory in the first democratic elections ever
held in Haiti. Although it has not yet had the time to formulate its economic
development policies, the new Government has already given a high priority to
human resource development in general and to the education sector in
particular. This social orientation renders possible for the first time the
implementation of key decisions which had been identified since the initiation
of the 1982 educational reform, but which could not be implemented for lack of
an appropriate socio-political environmant. In particular, it may now be
possible to initiate the organization of communities, be they of teachers, of
parents or of school principals which are needed for a more participatory
management of the schools, for lucal feed-back, and for the iwplementation of
a more modern instructional delivery. It may also be possible to plan some
decentralization of accountability which is necessary for improved sectoral
management and efficiency. Finally, the call for managerial transparency and



integrity should permit to reorient the activity of the Ministry of Education,
Youth and Sports (MENJS) towards assuming its full normative role in the
entire public and private educational uector (paras. 2.5 and 2.18).
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
2.1       Education for the general population has only recently been
developed in Haiti. Traditionally, it was directed to the urban elite, and
emphasis on excellence of selected urban schools sometimes prevailed until
recently among policy makers over access to education for the poor and rural
segments of the population. The French language and traditional pedagogical
methods dominate Haitiar. education and reinforce the exclusiveness of the
system. Lictle attention and investment have been directed to public
education, except for donor aid (e.g. the US-financed construction of rural
schools in the 1920s, as well as more recent French and multilateral aid
programs). However, the educational needs of the country's general population
have gradually come into focus. The principal benchmarks in educational
development have been the establishment of the University of Haiti in 1944, a
first comprehensive review of the teacher training curricula in 1976, and the
merging of the rural and urban systems under the NENJS in 1978. In 1979, a
law defined Creole as the language of instruction in basic education and, more
significantly, a major educational reform was launched in 1982 (Annex II).
Although enrollments nearly doubled to one million students during the 19809,
students enrolled in grades one to six represent only 50 percent of the
children in the corresponding age group. Public schools are mostly located in
well serviced rural centers and develcped urban areas, and are inaccessible
from the poorer rural areas. The private sector absorbed the bulk of the new
enrollments; public enrollment even decreased by 12 percent between 1986 and
1988 (para. 2.8).
2.2       Secondary education is not developed and still accounts for only 14
percent of all enrollments. It depends mostly on private schools which
provide about 83 percent of all secondary schools. Most schools are located
in the capital and a small portion of the population has the ability to pay
for them.
2.3       Vocational and technical training has been developed mostly as part
of the implementation of the 1982 educational reform (para. 2.4). The
National Institute for Vocational Training (INFP) has, by law, full
jurisdiction on the sub-sector, and a mandate to promote regular contacts with
the informal and formal sectors. INFP's vocational centers provide formal
programs for youths and non-formal training courses for youths and adults
focusing on the informal sector and the starting of new businesses. INFP's
technical centers provide technical education and in-service training for
technicians already in the labor market. A number of private institutions
also provide some technical training of uneven quality, without supervision or
coordination. Despite the mostly good record of execution of INP?, the sub-
sector failed to adapt to the deteriorating economic conditions of the 1980s.



- 4 -
2.4       Th, 1982 educational reform had a profound impact on the education
sector. The reforim program, prepared with the assistance of the United
Nations Science and Culture Organization (UNESCO), sought to make education
more responsive to the socioeconomic and cultural conditions of Haitian
society. The basic education was divided into two cycles of four and two
years duration, followed by three years of basic secondary education. After
the first cycle students are expected to be functionally literate, especially
in Creole. At the end of the second cycle, students are expected to be fluent
in French. Other reform innovations weret (a) the use of Creole as the medium
of instruction into the seconid cycle; (b) the follow-up of the cohorts cf
students by the same teachier during two years, to improve efficiency in the
first cycle; (c) the introduction of more application-oriented curricula and
syllabi; (d) the modernization of the instructional methodology; and (e) the
upgraded and intensified supervision of teachers. A comprehensive evaluation
of the reform was made in 1989. It showed that the public vas not made aware
of the tenets of the reform, and that its mandatory introduction was highly
unpopular among those parents who doubted the efficacy of the proposed use of
Creole as a vehicle to French literacy. Furthermore, the reform program was
overly centralized and ambitious, and it overwhelmed the sector's financial
and administrative capacity. The MENJS was unable to retrain a sufficient
number of teachers, school principals and inspectors, or make available the
manuals and textbooks required for new cohorts of students entering the
system. Although the private sector applied varying aspects of the reform, it
did not adopt it fully or systematically (para. 2.13). The Government which
came to power in 1986 modified some elements of the reform and allowed both
Creole and French to be used in the basic curricula. By 1989, only one-third
of all privmary school etudents were in schools that conformed to all
provisions of the reform. Tne reform was responsible, however, for improving
access to basic education during the first years of its implementation, and
for a moderate reduction in repetition (now about 15 percent) and dropout.
Furthermore, the use of Creole has gradually become accepted by most educators
and by the upper socioeconomic strata. Nonetheless, no significant difference
in achievement has leen found between students using the reformed and the
traditional curricula (Annex II). The learning achievements, which vary
enormously among schools, are related mostly to the quelity of the school
management.
The Public Education Sector
2.5       The Ministry of Education. Youth, and Sports (MENJS), the main
recipient of the country's educational budget, is responsible for all
government policies and public activities in education. It is the largest
national ministry with 13,700 employees (Annex III). The Minister is
supported by a cabinet of advisors and a secretariat and oversees several
technical directorates: for planning, basic education (DEF), professional
training (DFP), civil works (DGS), administration and personnel. Much of the
administrative control of the MENJS is vested in the general directorate to
which four regional directorates report. The central administrative structure
in Port-au-Prince concentrates the managerial and budgetary functions of
MENJS. A Budget Commission, which includes representatives of various
directorates and decentralized institutions, prepares the budget. The



effectiveness of MENJS in setting norms, supervising, and administering is
limited, and the regional directorates remain almost inoperative. The MENJS
has been unable to finalize sector policies needed to sustain the reform and
to ensure their efficient implementation. Two decentralized institutions also
report directly to the MENJS: the National Pedagogical Institute (IPN),
responsible for curricula, textbooks, and teacher training programs, and the
INFP. These institutions have been relatively effective executoes of
components in previous IDA projects.
2.6       Public expenditures in education, traditionally low in Haiti,
increased dramatically in 1987 without yielding tangible benefits. The
increase of the current budget of the MENJS was part of the reform program
supported by the donor community. Public education expenditure grow from 1.5
to 2.7 percent of the GDP, which is still low compared to the 2-9 percent in
other lower-income countries. The share of education expenditures in the
national budget since 1987 has been relatively high, however, at 17 percent.
In order to attract and keep qualified teachers, salaries were increased by 70
percent and were brought in line with the rest of the civil service; they
averaged US$175 per month in 1990. The wage increase has left no budgetary
margin for non-salary recurrent expenditures or maintenance: the share of
salaries in MENJS expenditures grew from 91 percent in 1985 to 93 percent in
1989 (Annex IV). Instructional delivery, however, has not improved because of
a lack of in-service training, supervision, and instructional materials.
MENJS allocates 65 percent of its budget to basic education, which is
adequate. About eight percent is allocated to unspecified activities in
preschool education; about 13 percent to secondary education and vocational
and technical training, and five percent to higher education. The
student/teacher ratio is around 40 in public schools and 35 in private schools
which is acceptable. The average total operating expenditure per primary
student per year is about US$100 but it varies greatly between schools.
2.7        Direct household financing of public education amounts to about 25
percent of total costs in the primary, 12 percent in the secondary, and five
percent in the tertiary levels. The studonts pay for textbooks, compulsory
uniforms, tuition (15 Gourdes per year in public schools) and other fees.
Education expenses amount to 8-12 percent of rural family incomes. Although
cost recovery is generally considered desirable, such high contributions in
basic education reduce the attendance among children in rural areas and in
large poor families. Furthermore, the use of tuition and fee revenues is not
transparent and the extent to which MENJS receives such revenues is not clear.
The resulting inequitable access to public schools has been associated with
resentment and political discontent, low sustainability of projects a.nd the
destruction, during the tlmes of political upheaval, of rural public schocls
and furniture.
The Private Education Sector
2.8       The private sector has responded with flexibility and relative
efficiency to the demand for education services and to the extreme poverty
conditions of the students. It provides cheaper and more accessible schooling
to the scattered rural population and urban slum dwellers than the public



- 6 -
sector. The large participation of the private sector in basic education (50
percent of all expenditures) in unique to Haiti. Private schools now
represent 82 percent of all schools, with 72 percent of the students at
primary level (against 40 percent of enrollment in 1973). Growth in private
sector enrollments was particularly marked in 1978-EJ and was linkced to the
initially poor acceptance of the reform Ca well *a to the breakdown in public
services during 1988-90 (Annexes V and VI).
2.9       Private schools are heterogenous and target specific groups of
students. The better-endowed urban schools provide high-quality education and
are more efficient than public schools. The smaller and poorer schools in
isolated communities are less efficient. The average total operating expenses
per student per year is about US$50, or half the amount in the public sector.
Private schools are divided into the following:
(a)     The non-profit schools are mainly located in the rural areas and
poor urban areas of Port-au-Prince, Cap and Cayes. They are run by
missions, dioceses, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) or,
occasionally, by communities. The largest group among them are
protestant schools with about 2,317 buildings or 37 percent of all
primary schools. They are often cheaper and more accessible than
public schools. They require a minimal financial contribution from
students, usually less than one dollar a month. These schools have
very few resources and sometimes no infrastructure other than the
church or a courtyard. They hire mostly unqualified teachers who
may be volunteers or may be paid on average about US$50 a month.
They provide an uneven quality of instruction, often supplemented
by nutrition programs. The non-profit schools are responsible for
most of the growth in private-sector enrollments.
(b)     The profit-oriented schools are small, mostly urban schools
("6coles borlettes"). There are about 1,411 in Haiti, or 22
percent of all schools. They cater to the lower-middle income
population and are operated by entrepreneurs, who may not be
educators. Since these schools must maximize profits, they tend to
have very poor instructional materials, buildings, and staff
qualifications.   Receiving little supervision, they provide the
poorest quality of education.
(c)     The affluent private schools are in Cap, Cayes, and mostly Port-au-
Prince. They include for-profit secular schools as well as
religious schools run by various religious orders and are attended
by middle- and upper-income students. Usually staffed with well-
qualified teachers, these schools provide high-quality education
with very high student fees.
2.10      The private sector has been strengthened by substantial foreign
assistance. Donor funds have been increasingly channeled to private schools
through the Haitian Foundation for private Education (FONHEP). FONHEP, which
became operational in August 1986, is a non-profit foundation seeking to



promote coordination among educators in the country as well as improve sector
data and educational quality for Haitian children without losing private-
sector initiative, versatility and relative efficiency (Annex V). It
represents approximately 300 member schools and organizations, including the
Episcopal Conference of the Catholic Church (CEEC), the Federation of Haitian
Protestant Schools (FEPH), and several affluent secular schools represented by
the Association of Port-au-Prince School Directors (ADEPP).   PONHEP
administers a program of instructional support and quality control financed by
the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). This
Bilateral Education Project (PROBED) has shown a positive impact on the
student achievement '-n over 300 scattered private schools. FONHEP also
manages a program of salary supplements to teachers in selected private
schools, with financing from the Swiss Goveruament and IDA, under the Fourth
Education Project. Finally, PONHEP has supervised service contracts with some
NGOs for the pre- and in-service training of teachers and school principals in
disadvantaged areas through the Fourth Education Project. FOUEEP is seeking
to diversify its sources of financing and improve its management by setting up
local offices outside Port-au-Prince.
Main Issues in Basic Education
2.11      The shortcomings of Haitian education are linked to the country's
financial and political difficulties and to the poverty of the population.
The most salient issues includes (a) the limited enrollments; (b) the low
quality of instruction; and (c) the inefficient management of educational
resources.
2.12      Limited Enrollments.  Only 50 percent of primary school-aged
children attend school because of the lack of schools, the poor health of
children and the cost of education. Although about 74 percent of Haiti's
population lives in rural areas, mostly in dispersed settlements, there is
only one primary school for every five square kilometers (5800 primary
schools). There are also few roads and no adequate transportation in large
portions of the territory. The northeast and central departments are the most
disadvantaged (Annex VI). School attendance is difficult for children who
have to walk for more than an hour to school and is reduced by the poor health
and nutritional status of the children. The direct and indirect costs of
schooling and the traditional reliance on child labor also make education
inaccessible to many, particularly the children of large and poor families.
As a result, there are large rural-urban disparities in school attendance; 34
percent of rural children complete the first four grades as compared to 52
percent of urban students. As in many poor countries, female enrollments lag
behind, but the gender gap is mostly seen in Port-au-Prince; equal percentages
of 11-year old boys and girls are enrolled in rural areas.
2.13      Low Qualitv of Instructional Delivery.  The low quality of
instruction is associated with poor teacher training and recruitment
practices, limited in-service training and classroom supervision, the
uncoordinated development of curricula and instructional material and the lack
of books in classrooms, the absence of achievement testing, and the poor
physical conditions of schools.



(a)     Poor Teacher Trainina and Recruitment Practices.  Minimum
certification standards for primary-level teachers require ten
years of schooling; only 82 percent of teachers meet these
standards in the public sector and 48 percent in the private sector
(Annex VI). In fact, 15 percent of all private-school teachers
have no secondary education. In rural private schools, only 20
percent of teachers meet certification standards. The 10 teacher
training colleges ("les ecoles normales") produce about 200 high
quality teachers a year. Of these, only a small share (10 percent)
and decreasing number are hired by the MENJS. Teacher training
colleges attract students who are too highly qualified to remain in
rural teaching jobs, even with the relatively attractive salaries
of certified teachers. Hiring has been reduced by the large
numbers of substitutes engaged during times of instability.
(b)     Limited In-service Training.  The responsibility for in-service
training is not clearly defined in the public sector and is shared
among the IPN, DFP and DEF. Teacher training colleges and the
Association of Haitian Teachers also conduct in-service training.
In the private sector, FONHEP, CEEC, FEPH, AND ADEPP have developed
low-cost training programs for teachers and school principals. All
these entities compete keenly to attract foreign financing and do
not coordinate their activities; as a result, in-service training
has been poorly linked with the implementation of the reform
curricula and the issuance of new textbooks. These institutions
lack the executive and logistic capacity to carry out systematic
training, and no public buildings are available for that function
outside Port-eu-Prince. Finally, except for the Fourth IDA
project, which linked training to salary supplements in the private
sector, there has been no attempt to link the in-service training
with personnel management and career advancement in MENJS; training
has been used mostly as a reward without consideration to cost
efficiency or effectiveness. The Fourth Education project sought
to contract in-service training to private sector institutions
which were more efficient than the MENJS. Delivery of in-service
training, however, has been hampered by high turnover, the low
level of teachers' formal education, and by inadequate facilities.
(c)     Limited Classroom SuPervision.  MENJS has a corps of about 200
primary-school inspectors that mainly carry out administrative
functions. Associations of private schools have often employed
their own inspectors. A complementary corps of about 80
pedagogical advisors was transferred from IPN to MENJS as part of
the Third IDA project to support instruction and transmit
curricular guidelines to teachers in private and public schools.
These educators have been successful in mitigating the effect of
insufficient teacher training, and in disseminating the goals of
the reform. Their effect, however, has been limited because they
have no conveyance means or financial support to travel to rural
and remote schools. Furthermore, approximately 42 additional



- 9 -
pedagogical advisors would be necessary to fulfill this function.
Their support to teachers should focus on improving the quality of
instruction in order to reduce grade repetition the proportion of
students overage by at least three years (51 percent), and dropout
(30 percent in the first grade, 15 percent annually thereafter).
(d)     Uncoordinated DeveloDment of Curricula and Instructional Material
and the Lack of Books. 3oth the public and private sectors have
adopted the reform only partially and are delivering a mixed
curriculum, sometimes more traditional and sometimes more reform-
oriented. Although IPN was expected to approve and rationalize
textbooks and curricula, poor management prevented it from assuming
its normative function. Therefore, a multitude of co-mmercially
prod-ced textbooks is utilized in the country without official
authorization, and FONHEP has taken on an informal role of
reviewing textbooks using IPN criteria. As a result, and because
of the high cost of books, only one out of four students in rural
schools has access to textbooks. The Third IDA project attempted
to provide free books in public schools, but the poor
implementation and supervisory capacity of MENJS made this
objective unattainable (Annex VII). Private schools, however, have
fewer organizational constraints and are more likely to utilize
resources effectively. Integrated collaboration with the private
sector and with the Inter-American Development Bank (who will
finance textbooks, mainly for grade 1) may also enable MENJS to
distribute textbooks and teachers' manuals in schools of limited
resources.
(e)     Absence of Achievement Testing.  No standardized tests are
administered at the end of each primary cycle in public schools.
The lack of testing prevents valuable recognition of the students'
achievements and feedback to improve 'nstructional quality. The
responsibility for developing a permanent testing program in the
public sector remains unclear and depends on curricular decisions
that have yet to be finalized by IPN. FONHEP has developed
standardized achievement tests in French, Mathematics, and Creole
for the end of the first cycle (4th grade) and needs assistance for
improvements in validation, administration, scoring, and school-
based feedback.
(f)     Poor Physical Condition of Schools.  The physical condition of
public and private schools is poor, in part due to a lack of
maintenance and soil erosion. The overall ratio of two teachers
per classroom nationwide also illustrates the shortage of
infrastructure. Private school facilities are often in a worse
condition than public schools. Many private schools function in a
church with up to seven classes in the same space, and some have no
infrastructure at all ("les 6coles tonnelles"). Many schools lack
furniture, and students sit and write on the floor. In MENJS, all
responsibility for maintenance planning, execution, supervision,



- 10 -
and evaluation rests in the civil works directorate (DGS), leading
to inefficiencies and corruption. Although district supervisors
represent an asset in civil works supervision, MENJS lacks an
incentive policy that would ensure the appropriate maintenance of
the infrastructure and furniture. It also lacks construction and
maintenance standards congruent with current reduced technical and
financial capacity in the public sector. Yet, there is no shortage
of private contractors and supervisors to ensure adequate execution
of maintenance contracts. Given the unstable conditions that have
resulted in destruction in the past, it may be unwise to build a
large number of schools until adequate construction standards,
building procedures and maintenance policies are developed.
Rehabilitation or refurbishment of some public and private schools,
however, is necessary now in selected areas.
2.14      Inefficient Management of Educational Resources.  The inefficient
management of educational resources is due primarily to the lack of a clear
national policy on educational priorities and programs, and to the poor
management of MENJS's human and financial resources:
(a)     Lack of a Workable Sector PolicX.   Sector policies wEbre developed
during the first years of implementation of the reforn. These
policies did not take fully into account the sector's institutional
constraints, the overly centralized decision making and poor
coordination. It did not permit adequate phasirg of the execution.
Above all, it ignored the prevalent role played by the private
sector. As a result the proposed policies are not directly
implementable and more modest and phased objectives need to be
defined. The political and institutional instability during the
last years makes necessary an updated assessment of the sectoral
entities and their institutional capacities. The more open
political environment also requires some public debate and
information, and some participation of the pedagogical advisors,
school principals and teachers who will implement the policy. In
addition MENJS has scant updated information on the use of
textbooks and the textbook market, the curricular and instructional
status of the reform, the characteristics of students, the
financial flows in the sector, the actual conditions of schools,
and even the location and size of functional schools. The last
census was carried out in 1982, and little comprehensive updated
data is available. Schooling demand is also poorly understood: a
Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) would provide valuable
information regarding all aspects of the demand, its patterns and
obstacles, and would create a data base to support sector planning
and policy updating (Annex II).
(b)     Poor Management of MENJS's Human and Financial Resources.  The
inefficient use of human and financial resources is primarily
linked to the lack of personnel management in MENJS. Staff records
are neither accurate nor updated; only 5,000 of the 13,700
employees are registered on the payroll. The staff turnover rate



- 11 -
is unknown, recruitment and relocations are often done on an
informal basis, and payroll lists of the Ministry of Finance do not
agree with those of MENJS. IDA's Fourth education project provided
some resources to update MENJS personnel %nd budgetary functions.
However, file management must still be rationalized.
Government Strategy
2.15      Following the installation of a ditmocratically elected Government
in Haiti, political and economic conditions are expected to stabilize.
Although problems are multiple and severe, the priorities of the Government
are tot (a) recover full control over the MENJS's personnel costs and ensure
that the Ministry assumes its role over the entire sector, including the
private sector; (b) take short-term measures to increase the access to basic
education in a cost-effective manner, including support to and reliance on the
private sector; (c) define a medium-term sectoral policy through a
consultative process with all relevant parties in the sector; and (d) prepare
a medium- and long-term investment program and corresponding financing plan
for the sector in coordination with the donor community in order to improve
quality and access to basic education beyond the year 2000.
IDA Country and Sector Strategv
2.16      IDA country assistance strategy for Haiti has three main lines of
action: (a) technical assistance and dialogue on policies that would support
the economic reforms and recovery program th,t was initiated in 1986; (b)
alleviation of poverty which has been exacerbated by continued political
instability and the decline in external assistance; and (c) selected
investments in critical social services (water supply, health, and education)
which are directed to the lowest income households with attention to finance,
sustainability, and institutional development. A Port-au-Prince Water Supply
project, approved in June 1989, helped the water company to become an
operationally efficient and financially viable entity, while improving the
supply of water and expanding coverage of service. A First Health project,
approved in January 1990, seeks to improve the country's health status through
selected investments linked to increased efficiency and effectiveness of
expenditures in health. An Economic and Social Assistance Fund approved in
January 1991 has also been launched to support small, labor-intensive projects
prepared by NGUs and communities in the health, education, nutrition, and
infrastructure sectors, on a demand basis.
2.17      Since 1976, IDA has financed four operations in the education
sector (Annex VII). The first and seco-nd projects (Credit 618-HA, US$5
million, 1976; and Credit 770-HA, US$10 million, 1978) sought to increase the
access to the basic and non-formal education. The third and fourth projects
(Credit 1305-HA, US$9 million, 1983; and Credit 1592-HA, US$10 million, 1985)
supported respectively the first and second stage of the 1982 educational
reform with curriculum changes, training of teachers, school principals, and
inspectors, management development, and increased access to baRic education.
Amendments to the Fourth Education credit agreement allowed resources from the
IDA and Swiss co-financing to support private schools with salary subsidies,



- 12 -
and provision of textbooks and teaching materials. Because of the chronic
staffing instability in MENJS and overall inadequate management, all projects
have been implemented through a Basic and Vocational Project Implementation
Unit (UPEF). Project completion reports were issued for the first three
projects, and project performance reviews (PPR) for the first two projects.
They indicated that the quantitative objectives of some projects wore reduced
after the civil disturbances of 1987. Though they have been mostly met, with
delays of no more than a year, implementation has been severely constrained by
mismanagement. Lessons learned from implementation experiences include:
(a) coordination among sectoral agencies and in the donor community needs
continued support; (b) procurement capacity is limited in the sector;
(c) Haiti has many dedicated educators in various public entities and NGOs,
whose expertise and organizational capability can be relied on and utilized
for project development and implementation; (d) the 1982 reform has provided a
sound basis for sectoral development which has not been fully utilized in
particular for lack of high level support and because of political
instability; and (e) the unabated demand for education even among the poorest
rural families has been associated with the development of a responsive and
cost-effective private sector. These lessons have been incorporated in the
design of the proposed project.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.18      In order to respond to the difficult macro-conditions of the
country and to the great potential and assets for sectoral development, the
Fifth Education project would be a transitional proiect with limited scope and
duration. The elected Government has the difficult task of resuming the
management of public affairs, restoring essential political and social
stability and minimum confidence in the public sector, correcting the erosion
of discipline among civil servants, arresting the financial and economic
deterioration, and promoting policies that will lead towards the resumption of
growth. Positive developments in the education sector, however, support IDA's
involvement. The Government is emphasizing poverty alleviation and basic
education for all: the support which had been lacking since the launching of
the reform can now be harnessed for the benefit of the sector; a genuine
interest exists for private sector participation in educational development
which would permit to enhance the sector's capacity to deliver services; the
recent evaluation of the 1982 reform provides well-defined and broadly
accepted areas for further sectoral development; the unabated demand for
education, even among the poorest rural families has been associated with the
development of a responsive and cost-effective private sector; and the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) and other agencies and donors are committed
to supporting the development and implementation of a realistic sector policy.
Current IDA goal is to ensure continued sectoral dialogue with the Government,
maintain the quality improvement benefits of the previous projects and take
advantage of the existing opportunities for sector modernization and
integration. During the proposed transition project, the sectoral gains would
be consolidated, technical preparation would be made and policy conditions
would be set for resuming growth and qualitative improvements in basic
education, through the launching of possible future projects that would have
an integrated public/private financing and management framework.



- 13 -
III. THE PROJECT
Proiect Origin
3.1             The proposed project, initially prepared during 1989, intended
to continue at a faster pace the efforts of the Fourth project towards the
improvement of educational access and quality. The project scope and
objectives were revised during 1990 in view of the deterioration of financi&l
and institutional conditions and to take into account the commitment of the
Government to basic education and the potential for resuming sectoral
developLent. The project was appraised in September 1990. Project
negotiations were concluded in May 1991.
Proiect Objectives
3.2       The project would seek to maintain the gains made in basic
education to date, and to prepare for future progress. It would finance
transitional measures to support long-term improvements in the access,
quality, and efficiency of basic education with emphasis on the first four
years of schooling, and on the rural and poorest schools. Specifically, the
project would seek to:
(a)     Prepare recommendations for a sustainable sector policy and
investment program development;
(b)     Consolidate the benefits of investments in quality improvement in
the primary-level public and private sectors; and
(c)     Improve the resource manaeement caDacity of MENJS and of resource-
poor private schools associated with FONHEP and servirp low-income
students.
Project Description
3.3       The project would include three components: (a) A sector policv and
investment pro&ram develoRment component, consisting of diagnostic studies and
policy recommendations in the four priority areas of: instructional delivery;
educational finance; organizational structure; and school construction and
maintenance. (b) A qualitv improvement component including: (i) training, and
providing travel means to pedagogical advisors who would provide instructional
support to primary schools; (ii) providing in-service training to selected
primary school personnel and administrators; (iii) providing textbooks and
teachers' manuals for a total of about 70,000 primary-level students in
priority areas; (iv) developing and administering end-of-cycle (4th grade)
achievement tests; (v) reconstructing or rehabilitating a total of about 48
primary schools in high-priority areas of the country; (vi) providing
furniture, equipment, and instructional materials to newly rehabilitated
primary schools as well as to other schools in high-priority areas; (vii)
continuing and expanding a technical support program including teachers'



- 14 -
salary supplements in private primary schools which agree to comply with
FONHEP's performance criteria and to be monitored. (c) A resource management
component including: (i) technical assistance for updating the personnel
management, budgeting, and monitoring systems of MENJS; (ii) improving the
administrative and accounting procedures of FONHEP and of participating
private primary schools; and (iii) financing project administration through
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), as well as through FONHEP.
A. Sector Policy and Investment Program Development
3.4       The component (US$0.69 million including contingencies) would
finance brief, well-targeted diagnostic studies and corresponding policy
recommendations in four priority areas identified by Haitian public, NGO and
private sector educators (Annex VIII). The recommendations would focus on:
(i) policies/procedures that can realistically be instituted given current
financial and institutional conditions and (ii) identification of removable
technical and institutional obstacles to policy implementation, as shown in
the Table 3.1. The four diagnosis and recommendations would be carried out in
the first year of implementation by public and private sector entities which
would be supported by international consultants according to a work plan.
This work plan would include in particular the contracting of consultants by
October 30, 1991, according to the criteria set below (paras. 3.5-3.8) and the
presentation to IDA of the policy recommendations by December 31, 1992
(Annex VIII). During negotiations the Government agreed to follow the agreed
work plan for the execution of this component (para. 7.1(a)). A Coordinating
Co  ittee with members with qualifications acceptable to IDA from inter alia
MENJS, FONHEP and UNDP/UNESCO would be formed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA as a condition of effectiveness (paras. 4.3 and 7.3 (a)).
It would ensure the technical supervision of the studies and the coordination
and consistency between recommendations. Through these recommendations, the
Government intends to define feasible medium-term policies for sector planning
and financing. This intention is outlined in a policy letter to be signed by
the Minister of Education, Youth, and Sports (Annex IX). Signing of the
Policy Letter would be a condition of Board presentation (para 7.2). Based on
the findings of the four studies, it is expected that the Government would
discuss proposed plans and investments in a donors' conference to be organized
by IDA in March 1993.
3.5       The first study would focus on primary-school curricula and
instructional delivery. It would include an evaluation of the degree of
implementation of the reform. It would design the procedure to finalize
curricula over a two-year period. It would recommend the official approval of
a set of educational materials and the procedures for review and official
approval of textbooks. It would assess selected issues related to the quality
of instructional delivery and make the corresponding recommendations for
action: these issues include the high proportion of overage students, the
high dropout rate, the lack of achievement testing and the special problem of
in-service training, retraining and supervision of teachers and school
principals. Although the study would not address the low enrollment issue,
its recommendations regarding the overage students and the causes for dropout
should help increase enrollment. The study would make specific



-1 5-
Table 3.1: AREAS OF SECTOR P<LICY DEVELOPMENT
FOUCY AREA                                    ISSUES                                     STUDY THE FEASABILITY OFt
CURRCU
*   No stndardization of cutricuha           *   Finalizing reftned curicula
*   No review and Tproval procedures         *   Fializi  a curricula preview and approval procedure
INSIRUCllONAL DELIVERY AT PRMARY LEVEL
*   Low school enrolnents             *   50% of students are overage               *   Diminishing rpetition
*   Facilitatir  age-roup atendn
*   Developing adul/accelerted education aleusves
e   Dropout rates are over 15% per year      *   Identifying major obxcks to schoolJ trgh Living
Standards Mcaurement Survey
*   Pmschool education                *   Students attending preshool may be        *   Sending ovengo studets to primary school
ovcrage
*   Developing effective curricula
*   End-of-cycle (4th grade)          *   Student achievement is not consistently   *   Dcveloping k culturally and geographically feble tesg
achievement tsting                    asessed                                       prorm
*   School sffing                     *   High attrition: ahout 15% of primary-     *   Reducing turover
level tchers kave each year
*   Creating cost-effective incentives for potential eaches
-   Tbe effectivene  of private-school
management could improve                 *    Improvtng school-based mngcmt
*   Teacher training colleges have low       *   Consoidaing the approxitely 10 coleges
estput
*    nservice teacher traning         *   Many teacrs have litle formal or         *   Developing a workebl insvice progrm
nonformal education
*    Eabling tchers to obtain forml  ademic traig
*   Rationalizaion of textbooks       *   Many Nt of textboks a  used               *   Selecting the mod ue   set and disseminatin it
*   Stata of the 1982 reform          *   Reform has not been accepted by all      *    Rtornmendmg fuher revisi that would be acceptable
by mt schools
*   Work on revisions ha boew hampered
by insability                            *   Obtaining agreement on a single cwTicultm
MDUCA1TONAL FINANCE
*   Financial flow in the sector      *   50% of funds flow to private schools,     *   Financial planing of dIe ector
which receive 70% of the tudets at
primy kvel
*   Rchig an dquate prporbin of ulay/tol buret
*   HoW do Government finda flow to
primary and oder schools?
*   Educationa coeb per category      *   Cost per gradukte are high                *   Identification of relistic opporinities fcr savings



-16-
Table 3.1: AREAS OF SECTOR POLICY DIIVI!I,OPMPNT (cont'd.)
IPOUCY AREA                                  ISSUES                                      STUDY TJIX FEASABIUT  OF-
*   Impact of subdidies to prinury    *   Do subsidies enhance the effectiveness    *   Pligibility criterix of privakte scbooh for subsidies
schools                               of primary private schools?
*    Enabling rnore privdte schools to adopt FONHRP stan,-
Do salary subsidies attact quality               dards and receive subsidies
techers?
*   Cost reovery                      *   Tuition fees in the primury public nd     *   D)eveloping scakls of affordable tuition
private aectois nsay be excessive for
the poor                                 *    Usirng tuition for school and MENIS budgets
* Enabling MENIS to take over private-sector teacher subsi-
dies
*   Prmary teacher salaries           *   There are inequities in the slary         *   Developing a realitic salary structure
structure
*   School supplies marketing,        *   Textbooks are not always available           Creating a workable pricing and distrbution sygem for
and cons                                                                            textbooks
-   How affordable are school materials?
*   Developing a coammunity-baed maintenane system for
rusable textbooks
ORGANIZATIONAL
SRUCTURE
*   Minisy of Education respon-       *   MENJS responsibilites in Lw entire        *   Assessing MIINIS capacity to supervise inutactial
sibilitiea                            sector are uncekar                            delivery
*   MENIS has not been able to deftie its    *   Defming a workable set of responsibilities for MENJS
role in a mixed private and publie
school sstnm                             a   Shaping the supervisory and contractng role of MENIS
for cducational services
*    Updating tho legal framework of MENIS
*    Defuiing school mnagement standards
*   Distribution of educational           Public and private sector domAins         *   Creating a widely accepted plan of complementary roles
functions between the pri-Vt          currently overlap                             (subsectors, geographical, etc.) for the public and private
ad public ectors                                                                     ectors
SCHOOL MAI1DJANCE AND
CONSTRUCTION
*   Soil erosion and building         *   Lack of maintaneo and prior con-         *   Ensuring that archit'unrd standards ar disseminated to
deterirtion                           stnation decisions create soil eroion         schools
and deterioration of schools
*   Defing specifican, inecntivs and feasible mainat-
nance pla to prevent deterioration
*   Unsuitable primay school          *   Architectural sandards for publie         *   Defne new specifications
contuctin                             schools are too high
*   No architectura standards exist for the  *   Pinanceisg future civil works for private sehools
constuction of private schools.
*    Dofining condition of acc.s to civil works financing for
private schools



- 17 -
recommendations of action on each of the above points, including the
definition of the responsibility for carrying o01t these actions, supervising
and evaluating them. The study would be carried out by consultants under the
leadership of DEF, with support from DFP and FONHEP.
3.6       The second study would tackle the financing of the education sector
with particular emphasis on the primary level. It would draw from the
extensive economic and financial sector study carried out in 1990 through the
Haiti UNDP/UNESCO project in coordination with the proposed project
preparation. It would review the financial flows in the public and private
subsectors, including household and donor contributions. The study would
evaluate educational costs and the impact of various forms and types of
subsidies to schools on educational effectiveness and demand at the primary
level. It would assess the impact of cost recovery on primary schooling
accessibility in the public and private sector and would recommend tuition
scales and payment procedures to improve tratisparency, equity and efficiency.
It would study the textbooks and school supplies market and costs to
recommend, as relevant, pricing policy, and specific support for distribution,
cost recovery and community involvement. Taking into account the
contributions of the private sector to aducation and its role in attracting
needed foreign contributions to the sector, the study would propose a medium-
term financing plan and investment program for the public and private sectors
focussing in particularly on the primary level: it would include the amount,
modalities and conditions of the contribution of the national budget to
private education to ensure free enterprise efficiency, expanding coverage and
quality of teaching. The plan would focus on improved management of recovered
resources rather than increasing cost recovery at the primary education level.
The study would be carried out through international consultants under the
leaders'.ip of MENJS with support from UNDP/UNESCO and FONHEP.
3.7       The third study would evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of
the sector institutions including the various departments of MENJS (DEF, DFP,
DGS), IPN, INFP, and FONHEP. In view of the institutional assessment and
existing overlaps and gaps between sectoral responsibilities, it would define
a new mandate for each of them, propose the corresponding organizational set
up staffing and financing, including drafting of a proposed
comprehensive law for the sector. The study would also recommend areas of
complementarity between the public and private sector and minimum
administrative and institutional standard for private schools. The study
would be carried out by consultants under the leadership of the MENJS.
3.8       The fourth study would evaluate the construction and maintenance
experience of primary schools to develop architectural construction standards
congruent with the reduced financial and managerial capacity in the sector.
It would update school construction norms for the public sector. It would
define technical specifications, feasible maintenance plans, modalities and
incentives to prevent erosion and deterioration of primary school buildings.
It would also define conditions of access to future civil works financing for
primary private schools. The study would be carried out by consultants under
the leadership of DGS with support from FONHEP.



- 18
3.9       This component would also include the design and implementation of
a Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) that would provide much needed
baseline data on consumption and welfare, including access to school services
among the Haitian population (US$0.50 million). It would be basecd on surveys
of a representative sample of households, designed to monitor key social
indicators and the input of social programs on the well-being of the target
population. The scope of LSMS includes not only education but also health,
empioyment, income, consumption, nutritional status, housing condltions, and
fertility. The survey would be designed by June 30, 1993. A pilot LSMS would
be carried out during the first half of 1994, and the full survey would be
administered by the first half of i995. Data would be analyzed by the project
-0osing date, in December 1995. This component would be implemented by the
Mixnistry of Finance (MEF) through its National Institute of Statistics
(Institut Haitien de Statisque et d'Informatique), which is experienced ~.n
conducting large household surveys. The multiple outputs of the LSMS would
help adapt IDA's lending program to Haiti to facilitate multisectoral poverty
alleviation. The credit would finance 74 staff months of foreign and local
technical assistance for the LSMS as well as 28 months of foreign local and
technical assistance for the sector studies.
B. Ouality ImRrovement Component
.3.10     This component (US$10.87 million including contingencies) aims to
strengthen the operation of selected primary schools through four activities:
(a) improved instructional delivery through recruiting and training of
pedagogical advisors, as well as in-service training and provision of
textbooks and teachers' manuals; (b) a technical support program for selected
private schools including teachers' training and the financing of selected
salary supplements; (c) end-of-first-cycle achievement testing for all primary
schools; and (d) rehabilitation and reconstruction of physical facilities for
public and private primary and basic secondary schools.
3.11      Instructional Delivery.  The project would make classroom
instruction at primary level more effective through: (a) the use of viable
instructional techniques and classroom management; and (b) increasing
teachers' knowledge of subject. It would target teachers with low educational
attainment and would tailor in-service training and retraining to the
educational level of teachers, particularly in the poorest areas and provide
them with support that will enable them to obtain teacher certification
credentials ("Certificat d'Aptitude Padagogique"). It would: (a) provide six
months of foreign technical assistance to assess needs and develop appropriate
written and audiovisual materials; (b) retrain approximately six staff members
of MENJS and two staff members of FONHEP in in-service techniques for
unqualified teachers with little education; (c) train about 20 educators
located in various provinces to become trainers of trainers; (d) finance three
annual conferences (US$2,500 each) of Haitian educators to facilitate
agreement and coordination on instructional delivery; (e) provide supervisory
training for about 20 district directors and/or inspectors who oversee school
administration.



- 19 -
3.12      In-service train4ng would be given to 1000 public and 5,400 private
teachers and complemented by follow-up and supervision. Following a year of
curricular preparation by IPN, about 500 primary teachers each summer would
take courses administered by teacher training colleges and the Association of
Haitian Teachers. The 5,400 private-school teachers would be trained through
a program developed by FONHEP. To supervise teachers, the project would
finance: (a) training of about 84 pedagogical advisors for the public and
private sector to provide support to schools; (b) 42 motorcycles to be
distributed and maintained by FONHEP to enable the 42 private-sector
pedagogical advisors to reach rural schools; (c) the 1992/93 operating costs
(a monthly travel allowance of US$80) that would enable about 80 public-sector
pedagogical advisors to serve rural schools; (d) training materials and
equipment for MENJS and FONHEP. During negotiations, the Government agreed to
assume the travel expenses of the 80 public-sector pedagogical advisors
starting in October 1993 (para.7.1 (b)); and (e) printed and/or audiovisual
training materials. The elegibility and training of these advisors uould be
done in accordance with criteria acceptable to IDA (para. 3.16). Following
identification of suitable textbooks (in December 1992), the project would
finance the purchase and distribution of textbooks in the basic subjects of
grades 2-4 for approximately 35,000 public-school students; teacher guides and
programming materials would also be provided for about 1000 public-school
teachers. On the basis of the textbook policy study, agreement was reached
that FONHEP and MENJS would develop, by June 1993, community-based methods
that could be used to conserve these textbooks for future cohorts of students
while enabling them to do hourxwork (para. 7.1(c)). Teacher and principal
training seminars would include the use of textbooks and assignment of
homework.
3.13      Technical and Finyr.c'al Support Progrsm to Private Schools.  A
salary supplement of US$100 a wear was instituted under the Fourth Education
project for teachers of sel.ectei low-resource private schools (para. 3.14).
The Fifth project would, in principle, continue this practice; however, salary
supplements would be part of a package that would include training and
administrative as well as inst..  tional supervision and teaching and
administrative material for ell.,-ble schools. The project would continue to
provide training and supplements 'o 700 principals and 5,400 teachers of
currently eligible schools, whici were initiated in the Fourth Project (Annex
VII). Supplements would start oall After training ...-s been initiated. The
pedagogical advisors who would b&. recruited and trained would supervise the
schools that receive technical support and mor.itor the supplement
distribution. To facilitate classroom instruction in schools where children
lack books, the project would finance the purchase and distribution of
textbooks in the basic subjects for approximately 35,000 private-school
students in the second and third years of implementation an well as teacher
guides for the principals and teachers who would receive training. The IDA
project would firance the purchase of these and other related materials (about
US$100) for each eligible school.
3.14      Achievement testina and feedback to teachers would further improve
instructional quality.  The project would support the finali.ation of fourth-
grade tests which have already been developed by FONHEP, and a pilot



- 20 -
administration to about 500 public and private schools in June 1992. It would
also finance scoring and dissemination of results to these schools. To
facilitate use of test results, in-service training seminars for teachers and
administrators (para. 2.13) woulI' include this topic. Following item analyses
and further improvements to the  est, MENJS would administer the achievement
tests starting in June 1993, to about 40 percent (2,500) of all primary
schools through its testing service.
3.15      School Rehabilitation and Reconstruction.  The project would
finance the reconstruction of 12 existing schools (three private and nine
public schools) as well as the rehabilitation of 36 schools (three private and
33 public schools) and two teacher training centers. Furniture and equipment
would also be financed for these 48 schools as well as for an additional 70
schools of limited resources, which lack furniture. The project would also
rehabilitate two buildings used for residential in-service training.
Architectural standards and erosion prevention studies, financed under the
policy development component, would be used to improve the quality of
construction. The equipment would include a kit with basic tools and supplies
for simple school maintenance.
3.16      Eligibility Criteria.  To qualify for the suppott program, a school
should, as in the Fourth project: (a) be private; (b) be no less than three
years old, (c) have a principal and a school board who would consent to be
supervised on financial management as well as on education practices; (d) be a
member of FONHEP and use its standard financial and administrative tools,
which include inter alia: an accounting book, a payroll registry, a budget and
financial account book, an attendance record for teachers and students, a
lesson plan notebook per class, a record file per student, and a curricular
file per grade. The schools to be supported will not receive similar
assistance from USAID's PROBED program. In addition, the private schools
eligible for rehabilitation would be selected so that two would be managed by
the catholic church, two would be managed by protestant missions and two by
the non-religious sector. Private schools with limited resources serving low
income students would be schools with less than the average US$50 of operating
expenditure per student per year (such schools would be mostlv rural schools).
Teachers of these schools would be eligible for supplements if: (a) their
salary is less than US$100 equivalent per month; (b) they have completed no
lese than 10 years of schooling, or have a primary school certificate and at
least five years of teaching experience, or have a primary school certificate,
less than five years of teaching experience and an outstanding performance
record; and (c) they have attended and satisfactorily completed the
appropriate in-service trairing provided to them by MENJS and/or PONHEP. One
primary public school per department would be eligible for reconstruction; two
primary public schools per district would be eligible for rehabilitation; one
basic secondary public school per district would be eligible for
rehabilitation; each of these schools would have reached a stage of
deterioration representing a hazard for the teachers and students. Public
schools with limited resources serving low income students would be schools
with less than the average US$100 of operating expenditure per student per
year (such schools would be mostly rural schools). During negotiations FONHEP
and HENJS representatives confirmed that the agreed selection criteria would



- 21 -
be applied for the employment and/or training of the pedagogical advisors and
regional support staff, for civil works and for the technical and financial
support to private schools (para. 7.1(d)).
C. Resource Management Component
3.17      This component (US$2.95 million including contingencies) would
continue activities of the Fourth project and would include: (a) technical
assistance to the Ministry of Education for setting up a unified personnel
management system and to support basic record-keeping and budgeting;
(b) improving the administrative and accounting procedures of FONHEP and its
participating organizations; and (c) financing the administration of the
project through the project implementation unit (PIU) and FONHEP.
3.18      Personnel Manaaement and Budaetina.  This subcomponent would seek
to rationalize budgetary allocations in the NENJS and increase the
productivity of personnel. The project would establish goals for the MENJS's
budget allocation of salary expenses. Eighty-eight percent, i.e. US$28.3
million of the 1990 budget (totalling about US$35.4 million) is devoted to
salaries. Although this figure is lower than the 91-93 percent reported in
1987-89, it is still too high to allow materials allocations to schools. The
Government aims at reallocating approximately eight percent (in real terms) of
salary expenditures (a reallocation of US$2.8 million) over the next three
years either to improved salaries and incremental numbers of pedagogical
advisors and teachers, or to other operating costs. The reallocation would
come from a combination of careful screening of new employees, selective cuts
in the non-teaching personnel, implementation of the retirement policy and
streamlining expenditures for current employees. There would be scope for
further improvement of the use of resources and the ratio of salaries to
operating expenses during future projects with improved capturing of tuition
funds. During negotiations agreement was reached that MENJS would send to IDA
no later than December 31, 1991 the action plan satisfactory to IDA to
eliminate redundancies in its payroll, including the elimination of such
redundancies by no later than June 30, 1992. The ratio of salary/other
operating expenses that would be reached by then would remain constant until
the end of project completion. The Government would carry out such plan as
scheduled. (para. 7.1(e)). During negotiations, the Government also agreed
to maintain the allocation of recurrent costs in MENJS's Budget at no less
than the FY91 amount of Gourdes 3,900,000 adjusted to take into account the
variations of the price index each year as published by the Central Bank in
its quarterly Bulletin de la Banaue de la R4publique d'Haiti. Indice du cout
de la vie (para. 7.1(f)).
3.19      Administration and Accounting. The project would finance 24 months
of local technical assistance, local travel, computing and office equipment,
as well as training funds in order to upgrade the personnel management and
budgeting system of MENJS and to establish feasible methods for tuition
recovery. The Government would provide as counterpart 18 staff months of a
professional-level MENJS employee who, upon completion, would assume
responsibility for the continuation of the personnel management system. It



- 22 -
would also provide 30 staff months of help from a data procesoing assistant
and a secretary. Following development and implementation of the personnel
management and budgeting system, the information and system would be provided
to FONHEP, who would use results to improve the administrative and accounting
procedures of its participating organizations and schools. PONHEP would
harmonize its own budgeting system with that of MENJS and disseminate the
information in order to facilitate access and compatibility of information.
3.20       Proiect Implementation.  The project would also finance US$1.52
million for FONHEP project implementation costs (administration, supervision
and monitoring), and US$1.27 million for the MENJS Project Implementation Unit
(PIU)'s technical staff and operating costs (paras. 4.1-4.4).
IV. PROJECT IHPLEMENTATION
Proiect Implementation
4.1       UPEF, which has been responsible for the management of the four
IDA-financed educatior. projects, would be replaced by a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) with fewer, better-trained and more motivated employees. The PIU
would be directly under the authority of the Minister of Education (Annex
III). It would be responsible for the overall coordination of the project,
for the procurement of goods (all construction materials, material and
equipment), and for the management and execution of the public components of
the project (technical assistance to public entities; sector policy and
program development; training of public or private teacher, school principals
and pedagogical advisors by public employees; testing; contract for public
school reconstruction). To allow maximal flexibility to the private sector,
FONHEP would be responsible for the management and execution of the private
components of the project (technical assistance to private entities, training
of public or private teacher, school principals and pedagogical advisors by
private trainers; technical support to private schools and salary supplements;
contracts for private schools rehabilitation). The Borrower would pass on
proceeds of the credit for the FONHEP component to FONHEP on a grant basis. A
Subsidiary Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, would be signed between the
Borrower and FONHEP as a condition of effectiveness. (para. 7.3(b)). FONHEP,
in turn would, before commencing the technical support program in an eligible
private school, enter into an implementation agreement with such eligible
private school, whose content would be satisfactory to IDA (Annex V). The
LSMS component would be executed by MEF, through its National Institute of
Statistics.
4.2       The PIU would include: (a) an executive director responsible for
the overall coordination and execution of the project. S/he would provide
managerial and/or technical expertise on educational matters, would be
responsible for the development and the execution of the project. S/he would
be a member of the Budget Commission in MENJS. S/he would coordinate with the
MENJS, private sector and the donors; (b) a project controller with a
finarzial and management information background. S/he would be responsible
for ensuring that the proceeds of the IDA credit, of the co-financing and of



- 23 -
the national counterpart are used diligently and efficiently for the execution
of the project. control procedures, and would keep the management information
system updated; and (c) a procurement and disbursement assistant with
appropriate experience to oversee project accounts. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the Government would provide the funds, services and
other resources required for the operation of the PIU, and would maintain at
all times an executive director, a project controller and a
procurement/disbursement assistant with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.1 (g)). FONHEP has the capacity to manage the
private sector component of the project with its present staff. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that FONHEP By-Laws would not be amended
or suspended so as to affect project execution and FONHEP would maintain at
all time ito present staffing structure unless otherwise agreed with IDA, and
maintain at all time within its 3taff a technical staff, counterpart of PIIJ's
executive director, and a controller, counterpart of PIU's controller, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.1 (h)).
4.3       The PIU and FONHEP would hire the consultants corresponding to
their respective components. For the Sector Policy and Program Development
component, the PIU director would award consultant contracts following the
recommendation of the Coordination Committee, which would supervise all the
corresponding contracts. The Coordinating Committee would review and approve
the terms of reference, evaluate the periodical and final consultant's report
and would authorize the payments to be made by the PIU. The Coordinating
Committee would be based in the HENJS which would provide day to day and
technical support in coordination with UNDP/UNESCO. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the Coordinating Committee would be maintained
throughout the project implementation period, under terms and conditions
statisfactory to IDA (para. 7.1 (i)).
4.4       Implementation Procedures.   The new structure of the PIU would
permit improved use of consulting services and more flexible and responsive
financial and administrative management of the project. Programming for the
rehabilitation and reconstruction works of public and private schools would be
made following the recommendation of DGS by the engineering firm contracted by
the PIU. The firm would define the bill of quantities and would provide
technical assistence for the contracting of one (possibly two or three)
construction firm(s). Final designs and preparation of bids for works, and
for equipment and furniture would also be contracted to the engineering firm.
Such firms exist in Haiti and have the capacity to do so (para. 5.8). The
construction firm(s) would be responsible for the execution of the works,
including the safe storage and delivery of the    -ssary materials to
construction sites and the delivery of furniture    the corresponding schools.
4.5         The use of local manpower for the reconstruction and upgrading of
schools would be encouraged through the use of local construction materials
for the non-structural elements. This would generate employment in the
communities, foster a sense of ownership of the schools among beneficiaries
and avoid difficult transport of prefabricated slabs from Port-au-Prince. To
help develop the sense of community school ownership, information would be
prepared and disseminated to communities to stimulate the beneficiaries'



- 24 -
interest for the project. This task would be the responsibility of the
construction firm, who would use the experience acquired during the previous
projects. During the information and preparation step, the community would
ensure land availability and the preparation of the site for construction,
possibly with terracing, fencing and or gathering of stones, sand or gravel.
As a test of interest and ownership, these works would represent the
contribution of the communities and would not be remunerated. The contracts
for the execution of works would stipulate that all non-qualified labor would
be hired among the beneficiary community and its payment would be made at
market prices. These procedures would ensure that the maximum benefits of
temporary job creation be kept among the proposed rural beneficiary
communities. During negotiations agreement was reached that the PIU would
include in the contracts with the construction firm(s) clauses that would
ensure that communities would carry out the obligations and receive the
benefits described above, before the signing of any work contracts for the
community concerned (para. 7.1 (j)). General supervision in a region,
including the monitoring of unit costs and contract delays, would be the
responsibility of the engineering firm which would make monthly reports to the
FIU. Such firms are readily available in Haiti.
4.6       Project execution is scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1995.
In order to allow sufficient time for submission of withdrawal applications,
the Closing Date would be December 31, 1995 (para. 5.10).
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.7       During negotiations, agreement was reached that the PIU will send
IDA quarterly reports about its and FONHEP's project-related activities (para.
7.1 (k)). The report would include: (a) a summarized statement of the status
of execution of each activity of the project; and (b) a table of compliance
with the covenants and implementation program of the credit agreement and
staff appraisal report, including the implementation of personnel data
updating in MENJS, and the detailed budget composition and budget execution in
MENJS including the ratio between personnel and other operating expenses.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that each year during the
execution of the project, and no later than three months prior to the
beginning of the next fiscal year, MENJS would: (a) submit to IDA for review
and comments the public sector education budget; and, (b) conduct with IDA an
annual project progress review with respect to project execution (para.
7.1 (1)).
4.8       Input and output data would be collected regularly to monitor
project execution. The input indicators would include, among others, the
number and type of physical facilities upgraded in the public and private
sector, the number of teachers and other staff supported by the project (by
qualification, type of schools and region), and the number of textbooks and
teachers' manuals provided by the project. The output indicators would
include, in particular, the number of students graduating by type of school,
age, sex and region, and the number of teachers, school principals, and
pedagogical advisors trained.



- 25 -
4.9       Qualitative and quantitative data would be collected as part of the
diagnostic studies in policy and program development and as part of the
preparation for possible future lending. They would include quality and
efficiency information such as the teacher: student ratios, the textbook:
student ratio, and the retention and completion rates by type of schools,
leve-l, and region, the length of the school year, the number of hours of
instruction per day, and the number of non teaching staff to teachers. They
would include also information on the network of functional schools, on
teacher training and turnover, on textbook production and marketing, on
overage students, and on preschool supply and demand.
4.10      The household-based survey (LSMS) data would be useful for the
impact evaluation of possible future lending and as a basis for periodic
adjustment in the educational policy and financing. They would yield data on
key social indicators and the supply and demand of educational services. They
would help, for example, monitor enrollments, and understand the impact of
physical access and financial cost on rural enrollments.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Proiect Costs
5.1.      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$14.51 million, net
of taxes. Base costs are calculated at US$13.21 million equivalent, and
contingencies at US$1.30 million. The breakdown of costs by project component
is shown on Table 5.1. Detailed cost tables are presented in Annex X.
Table 5.1:  PROJECT COST SUMMARY a/
2          %
US$ Million            --         Foreign       Total
Components               Local      Foreign     Total        Exchanae       Base
Cost         Cost
A. Policy  Development    0.17        0.47        0.64            73          5
B. Quality Improvement    6.58        3.23        9.81            33         74
C. Resources Management   2.62        0.14        2.76             5         21
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS       9.37       3.84       13.21            29        100
Physical Contingencies    0.31        0.19        0.50            37          4
Price Contingencies        0.46       0.34        0.80            43          6
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       10.14       4.37       14.51            30        110
a/ excluding taxes and duties



- 26 -
A#sis of Cost Estimates
5.2         Project costs are estimated at October 1990 prices.  Civil works
estimates are derived from the experience of the previous and ongoing projects
as well as from the evaluation of successful NGO programs. Costs of
equipment, furniture and supplies are based on agreed lists of items and on
the c.i.f prices of similar items procured during the previous projects.
Costs of training, local and international consultants, and other services
reflect local and international rates, as applicable. Audit costs reflect
local rates. There are no identifiable import taxes since all items imported
specifically for the project would be exempt from customs duties and taxes.
5.3         Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange
content of the project is US$4.37 million or 30 percent of total project costs
(Annex X).  Estimates of foreign exchange requirements are based on the
assumption that: (a) all civil works contracts and architectural services
would be carried out by local firms but the majority of construction materials
would be imported; (b) all equipment, vehicles, and audiovisual materials
would be imported; and (c) some materials used in furniture would be imported
but most of the furniture contracts would be awarded to local suppliers.
Contingency Allowances
5.4         Physical contingencies (averaging about 3.8 percent of base
costs) are estimated at eight percent for civil works; five percent for
equipment, furniture, education materials and supplies; and 3-5 percent for
technical assistance. Price contingencies (averaging about 6.1 percent of
base costs) were estimated on the basis of expected annual international price
increases of 3.4 percent per year. Total contingencies represent 10 percent
of project costs.
Project Financing
5.5         The IDA credit of US$12.61 million (equivalent to SDR 9.40
million) would finance 87 percent of total project costs. IDA would finance
100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 81 percent of local costs. Due to
Haiti's severe budgetary problems, the Government counterpart would mainly be
given in administrative facilities and salaries of existing local staff. It
would specifically constitute of: (a) printing and administering end-of-first-
cycle examinations in June 1992 to about 500 public and private primary
schools and from June 1993 to about 2,500 public private primary schools
(US$610,000); (b) providing four security and janitorial staff members to the
project implementation unit for the duration of the project (estimated cost
US$170,000); and (c) providing office space, 1.8 months of local technical
assistance, and 18 months of secretarial staLf for the personnel management
and budgeting study (estimated cost US$120,000). FONHEP would donate the time
of local staff as counterpart for project financing. Specifically, FONHEP
would provide one-third of 14 executive, professional, and secretarial FONHEP
staff salaries (estimated cost US$650,000 million); UNDP would contribute



- 27 -
about US$350,000 in technical assistance and logistics support. In addition,
a substantial counterpart in kind would be offered by the private beneficiary
schools, which is not included in the project costs (private schools
counterpart was between 10 and 40 percent of the Fourth project financing).
The signing of the UNDP agreement is estimated to take place by project
effectiveness. A special event of default was added, providing for the event
that the UNDP agreement is not effective by March 30, 1992 (para.
7.1 (m)).   During negotiations, agreement was reached that (a) the Government
would provide the above staff and financing including the end-of-cycle test
administratior costs and (b) FONHEP would contribute with the financing of the
salaries mentioned above as counterpart (para. 7.1 (n)).
Table 5.2: FINANCING PLAN
Amount                 X
(US$ million)
Government of Haiti
including UNDP participation           1.90                   13
IDA                                    12.61                   87
14.51                  100.0
5.6         Total incremental recurrent costs generated over the
implementation of this project are estimated at US$5.15 million and represent
39 percent of total project cost. These costs include: (a) the support of
selected rural private schools through teacher salary supplements; (b) the
continued in-service training of teachers, pedagogical advisors and school
directors; and (c) operating costs, such as supplies, transportation,
vehicle maintenance, and travel expenses for pedagogical advisors.
(a)   The incremental recurrent costs to MENJS upon project completion
would mainly consist of the travel expenses of public-sector
pedagogical advisors and would represent less than one percent of
the present MENJS budget, which is affordable. The budget
restructuring effort (resulting from evaluation of public
entities) and the execution of a personnel management and
budgeting component would finance the increase of the share of
non-personnel operating costs and absorb all recurrent costs
generated by the project. Furthermore, the increase in
efficiency of individual projects in basic education and spinoff
effects which would result from a sectoral policy more responsive
to the needs of the country would attract financing from other
donors (e.g. multilateral, bilateral, and NGOs).



- 28 -
(b)   The incramental recurrent costs to PONHEP upon project completion
would represont about 13 percent of its current budget. Given
the expanding role of FONHEP and its capacity to attract foreign
financing, this is a reasonable burden for the short- and medium-
term.
Procurement
5.7         Goods.  Contracts for purchasing textbooks, educational and
administrative equipment and furniture would be awarded on the basis of ICB
procedurts in accordance with IDA Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits dated May, 1985. Contracts for miscellaneous small items not
exceeding US$20,000 per purchase and US$350,000 on the aggregate would be
awarded on the basis of price quotations obtained from at least three
eligible suppliers. Prior IDA review and approval would be required for all
procurement documents and contracts for goods exceeding US$100,000, and for
the first two contracts for goods and works. In the case of ICB, bids for
goods substantially manufactured in Haiti would be granted a margin of
preference, in accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement, for purposes
of bid evaluation.
5.8         Works.  The PIU would hire an engineering firm to prepare the
construction bidding documents and to supervise the works. Individual works
of reconstruction and repair would be grouped in packages of sufficient size
and would be procured following LCB procedures acceptable to IDA. In view of
the past project experience and the small size (maximum US$55,000) and the
dispersed location of the works, no international firms are expected to bid
for the construction contract(s). The construction contract(s) would include
the purchase of construction material, its storage and delivery to the
construction sites.
5.9         Services.  The selection and the appointment of consultants,
including the engineering firm, would be done following procedures that are
satisfactory to IDA and in accordance with the guidelines for use of
Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency, dated August, 1981.
Disbursements
5.10        Disbursements would be made over a period of four years.
Although the disbursement profile for education projects in LAC is 7.5 years,
the proposed project would be a transition project and would require a shorter
execution period. It has been calibrated to execute over two to three years.
The absorptive capacity of the sector was verified during the Fourth Project,
and participation of the private sector should help ensure its timely
completion.
5.11        Disbursements of the IDA credit would be as follows:  100 percent
against foreign expenditures, local and foreign consultant expenditures, the
contract fees of the three PIU professional staff and other non-salary
operating costs of the PIU, travel costs of pedagogical advisors until



- 29 
September 1993 only, the training contracts with the private sector made
through FONHEP and audit costs; 100 percent against local ex-factory purchases
of furniture, equipment and text books, and civil works (including materials)
contracts, all of which would exclude taxes; and 85 percent of locally
procured imported items.   The salaries of any incremental professional or
support staff involved in the project and not mentioned above would be
financed by the Government. No disbursements would be made for training,
equipment and materials and salary supplements until the equivalent categories
have been fully withdrawn or committed in Credit 1592-HA (Fourth Education
Project) (para. 7.4).
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT METHODS
-(US$ million)--
Proiect Element                  ICB      LCB       Other      N/A       Total
Civil Works                              2.44                              2.44
(2.32)                           (2.32)
Furniture and Equipment          1.37                 0.41                 1.78
(1.37)               (0.35)               (1.72)
Technical Assistance                                  1.05                 1.05
(and Civil Works Supervision)                      (1.05)                (1.05)
Training                                              1.97                 1.97
(1.97)               (1.97)
Instructional Materials         0.36                                       0.36
(0.36)                                    (0.36)
Textbook Acquisition            0.75                                       0.75
and Distribution              (0.75)                                     (0.75)
PIU Salary & Expenses,                                          2.55       2.55
and Government counterpart                                    (0.83)    (0.83)
costs for FONHEP and PIU
Salary supplements,
financial support                                              3.61       3.61
for private schools                                           (3.61)    (3.61)
TOTAL                           2.48      2.44        3.43      6.16      14.51
(2.48)   (2.32)      (3.47)    (4.44)   (12.61)
NOTE: Figures in parenthesea are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



- 30 -
5.12        All disbursements would be fully documented except for training,
and operating costs, and contracts valued below US$100,000, which would be
disbursed against statement of expenditures. The supporting documentation
would be retained by PIU and PONHEP for subsequent review by supervision
missionis and the auditors. The Borrower would not submit reimbursement
applications valued below US$20,000.
Accounts and Audits
5.13        In order to facilitate timely imrlementatioti oi the project, the
Government would open and maintain one project revolving account in Gourdes
with an initial deposit equivalent to US$0.23 million, representing three
months of operating expenditures of the public sector and policy components,
in a bank acceptable to IDA. The PIU would manage this account and would
prepare and submit the corresponding reimbursement requests. FONHEP would
open and maintain a second project revolving account in Gourdes with an
initial deposit to be made by the Government equivalent to US$0.23 million,
representing three months of expenditures of the private sector contracts in a
bank acceptable to IDA. FONHEP would manage this account, would prepare and
submit the corresponding reimbursement requests and would inform the PIU of
the financial flow of funds under the project. A condition of effectiveness
would be that the Government opens these project accounts on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA, and deposits the initial amount in such
accounts (para. 7.3 (c)). During negotiations, agreement was reached that the
Government and FONHEP would replenish such accounts to as to maintain their
initial value (para. 7.1 (o)).
5.14       rhe PIU and FONHEP would keep separate accounts for project
expenditures in accordance with internationally accepted accounting
procedures. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the accounts would
be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and copies of
the audited statements would be sent to IDA within four months of the end of
the fiscal year (para, 7.1 (p)). The auditor's report would include an
opinion cnd comments, as necessary, on the project accounts and on methods
employed in compiling the statements of expenditures, their accuracy, the
relevance of supporting documents, their eligibility for financing in terms of
the project's credit agreement, the standards of record keeping and internal
controls related to the foregoing, and the compliance with the credit
covenants including the status of the local contribution to the project. The
terms of reference would include the physical audit of the construction
materials managed by the engineering firm and the auditing of the
subcontractors. The terms of reference of the Audit would also specify that
the size of the sample for vouching of supporting evidence should be no less
than 70 percent of the total expenditure for the period of the audit. The
result of the audit would be based on at least three visits of the auditor
during the fiscal year: two interim visit. after which the auditor would
prepare a letter report without opinion with a certification on the
examination of the 70 percent of expenditures and on the compliance with
credit covenantes and a final visit. Audit reports would be financed by the
credit.



- 31 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.1         The project's main benefits would be to help consolidate the gains
of the previous education projects with respect to the education reform, the
priority given by the Government to the education sector, the quality
improvement, and the willingness of the private sector to participate in an
integrated sector development effort. The project would also prepare and
carry out the preliminary steps of possible future lending with far-reaching
modernization and public and private coordination objectives. Participation
through FONHEP of NGOs which operate private schools would improve donor
coordination, which is necessary for poverty alleviation. A large number of
private- and public-sector personnel would be trained or retrained, including
84 pedagogical advisors and 6,400 teachers and school administrators.
Provision of travel expenses to pedagogical advisors would facilitate school
supervision. Also, 70,000 students would gain access to textbooks. Female
students would benefit from increased access to education. Attention to soil
erosion in schools would prevent environmental damage.
Risks
6.2         The project faces major risks.  They are associated with the
possibility of continued financial distress, economic instability, and an
uncertain sociopolitical environment. Recent political events have further
eroded the sector's implementation capacity: little, if any progress has been
achieved through the four education projects, in the development of the
institutional capacity of the MENJS. These risks have been minimized in four
ways: (a) the transitional character of the project, its small size, and short
time frame would facilitate project execution; (b) the participation and
atrengthening of the private sector would help ensure continuity and timely
project execution; (c) the replacement of UPEF staff with better qualifiad and
motivated staff would facilitate the management and coordination of the
project; and (d) the maintenance of the Coordinating Committee would ensure
that the project receives adequate support from the relevant partners in the
sector and from the donor community.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECONMENDATION
7.1         During negotiations, it was agreed that:
(a)   A plan for executing the four policy and investment program
development diagnostic studies would include the contracting of
consultants by October 31, 1991, and the presentation to IDA of
the recormnendations by December 31, 1992; the Government would
follow the agreed plan for the execution of the sector policy and
investment program development component (para. 3.4).



- 32 -
(b)   The Government would assume the payment of the travel expenses of
the 80 public sector pedagogical advisors starting in October,
1993 (para. 3.12).
(c)   FONHEP and MENJS would agree by June 1993 on effect:ve community-
based methods to conserve IDA-financed textbooks (para. 3.12).
(d)   MENJS and FONHEP would apply the selection criteria for the
employment and/or training of the pedagogical advisors and
regional support staff, for civil works and for the technical and
financial support to private schools (para. 3.16).
(e)   MENJS would send to IDA no later than December 31, 1991 the action
plan to eliminate redundancies in its payroll, including the
elimination of such redundancies no later than June 30, 1992. The
ratio of salary/other operating expenses agreed to be reached by
then would remain constant until the end of project completion.
The Goverrment would carry out such plan as scheduled.
(Para. 3.18).
(f)   The Government would maintain the allocation for recurrent costs
in MENJS's budget at no less than the FY91 amount of Gourdes
3,900,000 adjusted to take into account of the variations of the
price index each year as published by the Central Bank in its
quarterly Bulletin the la Banque de la R6fubligue d'Haiti. Indice
du cout de la vie (para. 3.18).
(g)   The Government would provide the funds, services, and other
resources required for the operation of PIU and would maintain at
all times a PIU executive director, controller, and procurement/
disbursewent assistant with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.2).
(h)   FONHEP' By-Laws would not be amended or suspended so as to affect
project execution and PONHEP would maintain at all time its
present staffing structure unless otherwise agreed with IDA, and
would maintain a technical staff and a controller with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.2).
(i)   The Coordinating Committee would be maintained throughout the
project implementation period, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.3).
(j)   The PIU would include in the contracts with the construction
firm(s) clauses that would ensure community participation before
the signing of any work contracts for the community concerned
(para. 4.5).
(k)   The PIU will send quarterly reports to IDA (para. 4.7).



- 33 -
(1)   Each year during the execution of the project, and no later than
three months prior to the beginning of the next fiscal year, MENJS
would: (a) submit to IDA for review and comments the public sector
education budget; and (b) conduct with IDA an annual project
progress review with respect to project execution (para. 4.7).
(m)   The INDP agreement would be effective by March 30, 1992
(para.5.5).
(n)   The Government and FONHEP would provide the counterpart staff and
financing, including the end-of-cycle test administration
facilities as agreed (para. 5.5).
(o)   The Government and FONHEP would replenish the project accounts so
as to maintain their initial value (para. 5.13).
(p)   Project accounts would be audited annually by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA and copies of the auditor's statements
would be sent to IDA within four months of the end of the fiscal
year (para. 5.14).
7.2         As a condition of Board presentation, the Minister of Education,
Youth, and Sports would sign a Policy Letter spelling out policy objectives
and a program of action to improve the education sector (para. 3.4),
7.3         As conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   A Coordinating Committee with members with qualifications
acceptable to IDA from inter alia MENJS, FONHEP and
UNDPIUNESCO would be formed in a way satisfactory to IDA
(para 3.4).
(b)   A Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to IDA would be signed between
the Government and FONHEP (para. 4.1).
(c)   The Government would open two project accounts for the PIU and
FONHEP in Gourdes with an initial deposit of US$0.23 million
equivalent in each (para. 5.13).
7.4         A condition of disbursement against expenditures for training,
equipment and materials, and salary supplement would be that the equivalent
category hae been fully withdrawn or committed in the Fourth Education Project
(para. 5.11).
Recommendation
7.5         Based upon the above agreements, assurances, and conditions, this
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 9.40 million
(US$12.61 million equivalent) to the Republic of Haiti.



HAM
FIFTH EDUICATION PROJECT
BASIC SOCIOECONOMIC INDICATORS
1. Basnc Economic Indkcatoma
A: GNP par Capik (US*  156)
I: Income OIs'11butin Share of Household, Lowest: 20%                                     M: Number of Habitants per Nurse 19014-617
C: Populaton Below Absoute Poverty Line (%) 109774?7                                      N: Government ExpendIture on Health as a % of total Expenditures 1917
U. Education'                                                                             V. NutrItion
0: Adult NItoeray Rate (%)                                                                0: Infants with Low BIrth-Weight 1%)
E: Public Expenditure on Education as % of GNP                                            P: Dally Calorie Supply per CapIta
F: Public Expenditure on Education as % of Govermeont                                     0: protein Supply per Capita (gmras per day)
0: Public Expenditure on Education per Student USS;-Prlmary                               R: Index of Food ProductIorn per Capita (1979481 - 100)
H: Public Expenditure on Education per Student US11-Secondary                             VI. Population
1: Public Expenditure on Education per Student US$-Higher Education                       5: Population (thousands) i969
IM. Health                                                                                 T: Population Growth-% per year 1,680-ag
J: Life Expectancy at Birh (yeers) 1030                                                   U: Population Growth-%V per year 10861-2000 (estImate)
K: Infant Mortalty Rate Per Thousand Live Births 1966                                     V: Birth Rate per Thousand Population  1968
W: Death Rate per Thousand Population 1 986
COUNTRY         A      B   C    0        E       F   f  0                          K     L      Pd     Na0                              s        T     U! V  W
Argentina          2,520   4.4  19    6.1     1.9    S.9j   13   268    406  70.?   32   374    931   2.1         a 3,210  107   90.9       32,429   1.4  1.1  219
Saboursa     10,560~I    30     10.3  *"6.2   2.177t      .      .          00.9  26  1,060    200  13.5   -.2,652   77  101.5            202   2.0  IA  255
Barbados           5,300   7.0    - 0.7    6.1    17.6   627   691   2,604  74.9   12  1,123    223  11.6    6  3,199  100   73.0             262   0.3  0.2  17  6
SeOza         7,~~~~l480         3.             15.5   147   863        -.66      50  2,221    490.  9.0   ..2,5130   70   91.3           183   1.9  1.7  57  7
sonata               570   2.4  65   36.6    0.4   21.3   104   114          ... 53.0  106  1,536   2,477   1.9   12  2,143   56   94.8      7,113   2.7  2.7  42 14
Siaxit        2~~~~~,160   2.*  78   221.2    4.5    17.7   210  1240   1,300  653   81  1,080   1,205   9.5    6  2,050   61  111,   147.399   2.2  1IA  26  8
ChIe               1,510   4.0   ..  6.0    3.6   15.3   160   156    561  71.6   20  1,231    371   6.3    7 2,579   67  105.0             12.960   1.7  1.3  23  6
Ge4.mbts~~~   1,240o  4.10   1.4*.2,7    3224    40    64    322  664,. .36  7,166              627' 4,5   15 2,542   56  101.7        31,192   2.1  1.6  29  3
Costa Rca          1,690   3.3  34    7.4    4.6    21.0   165   322   1,177  75.0   1 6   956    450  19.3   1 0  2,603   66   60.0         2,941   2.3  2.0  27  4
Oomlplcatllep.  7*0M  6.m `43   six    I. *.:  100      20    34    123 60,9'  83. t,763   1,'0   10.0   16  2.477   53   31.5          7,01S4  2.4  1.6  31  7
Ecuador            1,110   2.0  65   10.0    3.5   21.3    61   136    173  05.0   55  2,900   2,664   7.3   20  2.056   49   95.9          10,490   2.6  2.2  32  7
4ISJ   0u'            40~   -5.6 732   mg,2   3.       ,      W. -103.273  63.0<  57  2,622    934   7.4   15  2,100   53   00.31            5,135   f.3  2.1  36  6
Guatemal            900   5.5  74   45.0      1.6   12.4    54   114    491  62.0   57  2,164    651   7.0   10  2.307   s0   90.0           6,935   2.9  2.6  40  6
~~uyuua    4*0    ..,        3~~~~~~~W.4    we6    6.1   tOt   ':93   2.21664   .44  0,220    SW   5,7   11  2,464   80   77.41    1,023   0.6  0.0  27  7
Haiti               380    ... 90  65.2    1.3   20.6    27    47    547 54.7  110 7,179  2,292  11.1   17 1,902   45   05.2                6,382   1.6  1.0  35 13
m    4.0  54  40.8~~AD  4.0:2  *11.6  .111   170  : 1,*=3 684.0.  66  1,511    672  14.7   20  2,0661  53   75.1   4,062   3.6  2.0  39  8
Jamaica            1,060   5.4  60    3.0    5.2   11.0  1140   I168   2,064  73.0  II  2,065    492   7.6    5  2,500   56  100.1           2,463   1.5  0.5  23  6
MeIi8*        7,770~VjM.~' 2 46    0.7   .*A    182     at   094  9`66li 6BOA   AS0  ,242    660, 1.3   15 3,132   81   62.6    616,737.  2,2  1*  2 60
NIcaragu.            830   3.0  I0  42.5      6.2   12.0   271   436   3.150  64.0   60  1,408    534 ...        15  2,405   63   70.5       3,745J  3.4  3.0  41  7
Poawita    *,130  2.0 ~~~~~301  I       5    1.    26d3840:1,O 7.    22  1.000    3900  18.               I  2,446   59   02.1      2Z370   2.2  1.8  20  5
Paraguay           1,160    ... 50   12.5    1.5   16.7    45   139    502  66.9  41  1,459    309   5.8    6  2,353   79  107.5             4.157   3.2  2.7  35  6
Pins  1,300   44  06   j,4'.::3.3.   17~~~~~~~~~%.156    214    206g  65   80  1,042   .5.6    0  U.24    01   65.5        21,790   2.2  2.1  31  9
Suriname           2,450   3.0    .10.0   10.4   22.6   906   383   2,305  66.6  42  1,264    276   3.7              2,725   67  101.9        397   0.2  OA4  32  7
?TIa4it&Ti54.      3,15*  '4.2  30- 3.1l    8.6.  12.3f4,050t  .1,403  .:S521  71.0   is,06W         256  1.5.6      3,032   82   71.8       1,263   1.7  1.4  26  3
Uruguay            2,510   6.0    .   6.      3.1   18.0   316   390    069  72.0   23   502          ... 4.8    6  2,648   76  104.2        3.104   0.8  0.6  17 10
RVetwie  rops0
Vesomiuja    8,25*8.050'SA  g    160,41..S 'l.282f   17, 476;1..1>                   701       *.t0.0s   82,4    so663.2             10,24S     42.230 5                    xDf
LAC Average        11,11400  44  54   16.7    4.0   16.6   210 2616.4  1202.2 67.0   63   033    857   6.7   11 2,700   60  100.7   -413,60   2.2  1.8  23  7-
Low Income           320    ..   5  43.3    4.0       6.5    ..      .       .  0.0   72  1,462   1,547  4.       6  2,364   57  116.4  *2,1114,000  20 1931 10
Middle Income      1,040   4.4  36   262      4.4    11.2    ..      .       .  6.0   52  1,3341       .67   10  2,644   751 100.?  1,6800   2.2  1.9  291 8
141911 Income  I17,060   4.71.     .      5.4     3.9    ..      .       .76.0    91  5M0        166  12.71   71 3.376  1011 ! 02.1    7$4,200  0.71 0.61 14  91
Source: World Bank Estimates (LATHRI). 1000.
*Most recen estmatsW around I M
**Referato 1375
No ftaaable



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Recent Developments in Haitian Education
1.        The World Education for All Conference that took place in Bangkok,
Thailand in 1990, outlined the prerequisites for a better-educated developing-
world population in the year 2000. Specifically, it recommended:
-    universalizing access and promoting equity;
-    broadening the means and scope of basic education;
-    focusing on learning;
-    enhancing the environment for learning; and
-    strengthening partnerships.
2.        To carry out the above, it was recommended that countries:
-    develop a supportive policy context;
-    mobilize diverse resources; and
-    strengthen the international solidarity.
3.        The proposed Fifth Education Project will lay the groundwork for
further implementations of the above recommendations by supporting private-
public partnership, mobilizing diverse resources, and helping develop a sector
policy. Despite the unstable political climate, the international community
has been involved with instructional improvement and has reiterated its
commitment to support educational development. The following sections outline
the evolution of the Haitian educational system and discuss instructional
issues of importance to future lending.
The Educational Reform
4.        The policies of the educational system which made education
accessible mainly to the urban middle class, were extensively reviewed in the
late 1970s; teacher training curricula were revised in 1976, rural and urban
education systems merged under the Ministry of Education in 1978, and a law
was introduced in 1979, promulgating Creole as the language of in&truction in
primary education. Development of new curricula and textbooks began in 1978
by tho National Pedagogical Institute (IPN). The Reform was introduced in
1982 with the help of the UNESCO and IDA's Third Education Loan.
5.        In response to the socioeconomic and cultural conditions of the
Haitian society, basic education ("6ducation fondamentale") was split into
three cycles of respectively four, two and three years in order to facilitate
attainment of objectives and graduation for the multitude of students who drop
out. Fourth grade (first-cycle) graduates were expected to be literate in
Creole and second-cycle graduates would be fluent in French. The teaching
innovations under the reform program consisted of: (a) the use of Creole as



-36-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
the main language of instruction in grades 1 to 4; (b) a gradual introduction
of oral French in grade 1 and of written French in grade 3; (c) development of
curricula and syllabi adapted to the Haitian culture and educational needs;
(d) increased emphasis on discovery learning rather than on memorization; (e)
supervision of teaching end learning activities; (f) keeping each teacher with
a cohort of students for two years; and (g) automatic promotion during the
first four years of basic education. IPN was put in charge of the training
and retraining of school teachers in the field, and of the design and
production of new curricula and textbooks.
6.        In addition to language and curriculum, the reform updated
professional standards for teachers. A Teacher Charter was promulgated to
establish a professional accreditation system, appropriate salary levels and
career prospects. MENJS trained reform teachers through its secondary
schools. The inspector corps was reorganized to assist teachers with
pedagogical support and evaluation. Annual reviews of work programs and
budgets were introduced to counteract planning and managerial weaknesses in
MOE and IPN, and improve programming.
7.        In mid-1980's, MENJS was reorganized in order to introduce an
organizational structure more relevant to the reform, such as the creation of
a department to coordinate private/public sector education. IPN's Monitoring
Unit was charged with the monitoring and evaluation of the achievements in the
classrooms. As part of the general reform of the education sector, the
Government decided to introduce new curricula more adapted to the labor
demands of the Haitian economy at the semiskilled, skilled worker, and
technician levels, and to strengthen the management and the role of the
National Institute for Vocational Training (INFP). The existing system of
training was restructured through the introduction of vocational training
centers to replace inefficient lower secondary vocational schools and
technical centers to replace upper secondary vocational schools.
8.        The implementation of the reform was initially planned over a
period of 10 years, starting with grade 1 and completing all basic grades by
1991. When it reached the sixth grade, in the school year 1985/86, however,
the MENJS decided to limit its implementation to the first six grades; the
seventh grade reverted to the traditional education system. Important factors
in this decision were the resistance of the upper societal echelons whose
children often studied in France as well as poorer parents who interpreted
instruction in Creole as an obstacle to mastering French.
9.        Although all public schools were supposed to implement the reform,
only a minority have done so. At its peak acceptance point, the reform was
introduced in about 45 percent of the public sector and eight percent of the
private sector schools. The reform timing coincided with political upheavals
and transfers of students from the public to the private sector, which made
adjustment to traditional curricula difficult. As a result, several aspects
of the reform curricula have been modified. Although MENJS does not have
complete information on the schools which follow it. it appears that public
and private schools have been eclectic and have used certain materials and
portions of the curricula.



-37-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
10.       Although not fully implemented, the reform has been beneficial to
the country. Through the use of Creole poor rural students were more likely
to become literate and to follow classroom instruction. A decrease of
repetition rates in 1985/86 in comparison with previous year. is also
attributable to the reform. Haiti now has teachers trained in the reform
system, textbooks and teachers guides influenced by the instructional spirit
of the reform, and improved, state-of-the art curricula. However, both
repetition and dropout rates are still very high, indicating a continuing need
for improved instructional delivery.
11.       The lessons from the successes and failures of the reform will be
utilized in the preparation of any future lending. To carry out the
recommendations of the World Education for All conference at that time, the
Fifth Education project will finance various small studies that will provide
the information necessary to overhaul the reform principles, which to a
certain extent have already become accepted by Haitian educators.



Figuve I
HAM
FIFTH BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Organizalional Chayt of the Ministry of Educalion,
Youth and Sports
|   Ministry ot Notlonal Education,
CofathlnulaCunc     -                                                  Youth and Spode
Education              Nuatr Servi
Teakrlng  l' nmpbet tion
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .   .
I Opanmunt of |                upadment of          _     0ep=:m1nt of |                                       5                ;ONE                           il                PN        F
hrTraining  r|m                      So S-pcs ||         Orh |At"
Preschool Training                                         evaluation
AdS ntraltol   I           Ew-unt                        Dbh'ion
g  EdwSos~~Iti |  .
80l   VFiJ8cr,Unu1g- IZ                                                                                                                                                                   elK ndIcntu
Edcalln  _j  --J~~~~~~~~.tdti.. S.-ftem;  Dlvfsioil                                                                         Developmem~~~~~~~~st  i 
Poftgogical  Ttaining  0"amentation                                                                                            TmOrAng~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1N  F 
Seewn~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( mao  DtrnDvil
r-E--vcW*-W      >
Somfes: MENJS, 1980                                                                                                                 Tockeeson~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF 
10-
93 P.



-39-
Annex III
Figure 2
Page 2 of 2
t=rz
0
ww
0 0
0.Lb
u..0~~~~~~~~~ 



-40-
Annex IV
Page 1 of 3
HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PR.JECT
Public Expenditures in Education
1.        Education expenses are mainly financed by: (a) the state, which
uses resources from the Treasury or from external donors; (b) the families;
and (c) the NGOs which operate private institutions. Directly or indirectly,
the families finance about 50 percent of expenditures (enrollment fees,
uniforms, materials, books, transportation); the government finances 25
percent; and the donors and NGOs the other 25 percent. Local communities 'lso
finance a low but increasing proportion of education expenditures,
particularly in rural areas. Another significant source of indirect education
financing are remittances from emigrants to families.
2.        The operating budget of the NENJS includes expenditures for
primary, secondary, and post-secondary education and limited higher education
items, higher education acquired an independent budget in 1986. Even without
this expenditure item, education is the single largest expense item in the
country's budget, followed by the armed forces and the Ministry of Health.
Education and health have benefitted from the budgetary :hanges brought about
after Duvallier's departure, although the structural adjustment and the
economic recovery program have been disrupted by political instability. The
share of education in Government expenses financed by the Treasury (including
direct public interventions, the debt service, and the counterpart of the
investment budget) increased from 9.7 percent in 1986 to 16.7 percent in 1988.
The increase is remarkable because it reflects some improvement in real
terms, through limited reorientation of public expenditures at a time of great
financial constraints. Similarly, external financing (of which 90 percent is
tecl.iical assistance), rose from G68 million to G118 million between 1985 and
1987.
3.        The 1987 budgetary increases were mainly directed towards the
improvement of previously low salaries. Increases were indiscriminate,
however. They involved no added supervision, training, or follow-up and
raised the ratio of recurrent expenditures by an average of 70 percent to
approximately 93 percent of the total budget in 1989 with no accompanying
improvement in coverage or quality. The MENJS personnel represents 35 percent
of the cotal Government personnel, and its salaries represent 27 percent of
the total salary expenditures.
4.   The operating expenditures for education have seen some increase, from
G104 million (or about US$20 million) in 1986 to G173 million (about US$35
million) in 1988. The percentage of educational operating expenses in the
total operating expenses of the Government increased from 10 percent to 17
percent between 1985 and 1988. In 1989, operating expenses remained at the



-41-
Annex IV
Page 2 of 3
same level, with a reallocation of G4 million from Youth and Sports to
education. As a result of increased budgets and low operating expenditures.
MENJS expenditures correspond to a per capita US$95 for the 343,000 students
of public primary schools and the 34,000 of the public secondary schools.
This cost represents more than a quarter of the average national per capita
income and is appropriate. However, it underlines the need to improve the
utilization of MENJS resources.
5.        MENJS has limited information regarding its employees.  Of a total
of 13.700 staff only 5.000 have an up-to-date file. Personnel mobility, their
terms of reference, their degree of training are unknown. Recruitment of
inspectors and administrative personnel is carried out through informal
procedures. The Personnel Department is informed of movements of personnel at
least a year after they take place; consequently checks are distributed
monthly and are cashed by persons other than the intended beneficiary.



-42-                                  ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 3
HAITI
PUBLIC EXPENDITURES ON EDUCATION
Table 1: Public Expenditures on Education (1985, 1987-1989)
(Millions of Gourdes)
1985               1987      1988      1989
Public Expenditures on Education            153.1              291.9    299.1      304.8
Operating Expenses                           96.2              170.1     181.5    187.2
National Education                                             159.8    173.2    177.5
University                                                      10.3       8.3       9.7
Development Expenses                         67.8              121.8     117.6    117.6
Internally Financed                                              3.4       2.6       5.2
Externally Financed                                            118.4     115.0    112.4
Technical Assistance                                             82.9     95.0    100.0
Capital Assistance                                              35.5      20.0      12.4
(percentage)
Public Expenditures on Education              1.5                2.7       2.7       2.5
as a share of GNP
Public Expenditures on Education              7.1               12.3      13.5      12.5
as a share of All Public Expenditures
Ministry of Education Expenditures           13.8               18.6      18.6      18.9
as a share of Expenditures by All Ministries
Education Operating Budget                    9.7               16.1      16.7      14.0
as a share of All Operating Budgets
(millions of Gourdes)
Total Public Expenditures                 2,159.7             2,366.4   2,221.9   2,446.1
Total Operating Budget                      990.1             1,057.4   1,085.0   1,336.2
of which are Ministry                       697.8              913.5    975.5    990.7
Development Expenses                      1,169.6             1,309.0   1,136.9   1,109.9
Internally Financed                                             175.1     82.6    144.5
Externally Financed                                           1,133.9   1,054.3    965.4
Technical Assistance                                            746.5    755.1     648.9
Capital Assistance                                             387.4    299.2    316.5
G.N.P                                     9,974.0            10,739.0  10,981.0  12,055.0
1 - This includes expenses finances with aid and concessionary loans to government
Source: Ministry of Finance, IMF and Mission's estimates.



-43-
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 5
HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
The Role of the Private Sector
1.        Nominally, contact between the Government and the private sector is
maintained through the Bureau for Private Education in the HENJS.
Nevertheless, the state has been unable to provide policy leadership to the
non-governmental education sector. Left to its own devices, the private
sector has developed an impressive supervisory and organizational capacity in
order to improve the quality of its instructional delivery. Informal meetings
in 1985 led to the creation in 1986 of an umbrella group, the Haitian
Foundation for Private Education (FONHEP), with an organizational structure
capable of implementing projects and acting as a conduit for foreign donor
funds.
FONHEP
2.        FONHEP aims to: (i) improve the knowledge and structure of the
private sector; (ii) provide financing to private-sector schools and
administer funds; (iii) train teachers and administrative personnel;
(iv) maintain statistical information on schools, educational materials, and
human resources of Foundation members; (v) conduct fund-raising activities;
(v) research educational issues and publish results; (vi) develop, import, and
distribute educational materials; (vii) participate in other foundations; and
(viii) improve the physical facilities of member schools.
3.        FONHEP is headed by an executive director and supported by one
assistant director chosen from each of the catholic and protestant groups,
plus a coordinator for the non-confessional sector. The administrative board
includes seven members chosen from CEEC, the FEPH, and ADEPP. The CEEC takes
advantage of the catholic infrastructure and organization which is well
established throughout the country, including in the remote and poorest rural
areas. The FEPH covers schools from various protestant missions, usually with
better managerial capacity than the CEEC parishes, but with no formal
relationship between missions. The ADEPP is less organized than the two
religious associations and includes mostly wealthy schools from Port-au-
Prince: it has started however, to widen its constituency in other cities and
the rural areas. The executive board has at its disposal technical and
administrative services, as well as supervisory personnel. At this time,
FONHEP has approximately 20 professional employees.
Framework for the Relations Between the Public and Private Sectors
4.        The modalities of the collaboration between the public and private
institutions in the framework of the Fifth Education Project are embodied in
an agreement between the two sectors represented by the PIU and FONHEP, which
was agreed upon during appraisal.



-44-
fflEX V
Page 2 of 5
5.        FONHEP has the statute of an autonomous executing agency fully
responsible for its programs and finances. It will sign #.. eements with FEPH,
CEEC, ADEPP, and other institutions for the implementatio:t of the Fifth
Education Project in the protestant, catholic, and secular schools. The
purpose of the agreement between the PIU and FONHEP is to channel funds from
the Fifth Project to selected rural and urban schools in order to improve the
schooling conditions, the quality of education, the internal efficiency, and
the monitoring of achievement.
Support to the Underprivileged Schools
6.        The support to underprivileged schools includes the following
elements: (a) training of directors, teachers, and pedagogical advisors;
(b) economic support; (c) instructional methodology; (d) educational and
administrative material; (e) books and teacher guides; (f) school construction
and renovation.
7.        FONHEP would organize the selection and training of trainers; the
strengthening of the institutional capacity of FONHEP's central bureau and of
the protestant and catholic bureaux; the strengthening of the regional centers
in personnel, infrastructure and vehicles; the resource mobilization to
subsidize books; and the strengthening of the infrastructure service of the
PROBED project. Each activity would be autonomous and able to be implemented
at its own pace without external interference although activities are
interrelated and represent an essential element of the school support.
The Flow of the Financial Resources
8.        The organization of the financial flows reflects three main issues:
(i) efficiency, i.e. quick disbursement of resources from the PIU to the
executing agencies; (ii) stability, consistency with the implementation
schedule and to the autonomy of each agency; and (iii) decreased risks through
detailed monitoring of financial flows.
Accounting PrinciDles and Reports
9.        All expenditures will have to be justified within the time frame
indicated below. The PIU will keep the originals of the statements of
expenditures and PONHEP will keep copies. Accounting practices will be
similar to those used for the Fourth Education Project (salary supplements).
IDA will finance the technical assistance needed for periodical evaluations
and eventual adjustments.
10.       Reporting will be done at four different levelst
(i)       a quarterlv report would be sent from the school to the
sectoral regional bureau. It would cover information on
enrollment, general information on the school, program
implementation, problems encountered, immediate needs, atnd
distribution of the salary supplements. The form would be
prepared by FONHEP, filled out and signed by the pedagogical



-45-
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 5
advisor, and the school director. A statement of expenditures
would be attached;
(ii)      a second level of reporting would be sent from the regional
level to the central sectoral bureau. It would include lists
of the schonls, directors and teachers; a financial report
attaching the statement of expenditures; and a summary
evaluation of the progress made by the program;
(iii)     the third level of revorting would be the annual report from
the sector to the FONHEP. It would give a summary of all the
activities, a detailed description of all the programs
financed by the Fifth Education Project, a complete financial
report with statement of expenditures, and a list of all the
directors and teachers having received financial help; and
(iv)      on the basis of the above reports, FONHEP would prepare for
IDA quarterly financial reDorts, including statements of
expenditures and a complete annual report.
11.       The PIU will receive a copy of FONHEP's, FEPH's and CEEC's general
annual reports, as well as those of any other executing agencies.
The Agreement between FONHEP and Beneficiary Schools
12.       This agreement would regulate the relationship between individual
schools and FONHEP. All rights and obligations would be specified, and it
would serve as a reference document for discussions or possible arbitration.
This contract should be written in a language that would make it intelligible
by directors of rural schools. The agreement should include the following
elements:
A.   School Identification
Name
Locality
Commune/Rural Section
Department
Name and address of the responsible person
Name of the director
B.   Identification of FONHEP
Organization/sector
Director
C.   PurXose and Life Span of the Aareemeat
Reference made to the Credit agreement PIU/MENJS - FONHEP



-46-
AX V
Page 4 of 5
D    Definition of the Scone of Support Given by YONHEP
Training of the director
Training of the teachers
Salaries supplement
Administrative and pedagogical supervision
Books at lower prices
Instructional and administrative materials
E.   Oblizations of the School
To participate in the training sessions
To adopt a curriculum and a lesson planning mechanism
To abide by the school calendar
To keep a maximum of 50 pupils/teacher/class
To use officially confirmed books and manuals
To use one book per pupil (one per two pupils during the first year
of participation)
To use pedagogical and administrative material
To collaborate with the pedagogical advisors
To have its accounting system open for inspection
To organize a parents commlttee (or a district committee)
F.   Evaluation of the School. the Teachers and the Pupils
The school would be visited at least twice a year. These visits
would aim at improving performance and to confirm that it complies
with the legal obligations. Teachers would take tests while
receiving instruction to improve their professional qualifications
in order to obtain the Professional Aptitude Certificate (CAP) if
they do not have it. Student progress would be evaluated at least
once a year. Students would have to take achievement tests at the
end of the cycle.
G. Completion of Participation in the Proiect
R.   Signing
School Selection
13.       For schools to participate in the project they would be selected in
three stages.  FONHEP would generate requests through its participating
institutions or through the district inspectors of HENJS. PONHEP would decide
about provision of assistance on the basis of an evaluation charter prepared
jointly with the sectors.  Applicant schools would use a standard form that
should contain the following minimum information.
(a) School Identification
Name
Locality



-47-
Page 5 of 5
Commune/rural section
Department
Name and address of the responsible person
Name of the director
Religious or other organization to which the school belongs;
(b) Level and enrollment in the classes;
(c) Number of teachers and rooms;
(d)  Other information to be defined.
14.       Strengthening the instructional framework of schools would start
with the training of directors and teachers. Regular visits of educational
advisors would follow. The managemernt of the school by the director would be
supported by a parents' committee and/or a regional school committee. The
main purpose of this committee would be to protect the director and the school
from poteitial abuses. Furthermore, such a committee would help mobilize
resources and local contributions when new school construction or
rehabilitation work is foreseen.



ANNEX VI
Table 1
HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Evolution of Primary School EnrollmentA, 1975/76 - 1987/88
School   |  Public        Private                  Public as
Year       Schools      Schools        Total      % of Total
1975/76        280,187      206,948       487,135         57.5
1980/81        277,268      365,123       642,391         43.2
1981/82        282,400      375,700       658,100         42.9
1982/83        293,300      429,700       723,000         40.6
1983/84        325,690      457,380       783,070         41.6
1984/85        337,800      481,793       819,593         41.21
1985/86        362,400      510,100       872,500         41.51
1987/88        276,326      721,729       998,055         27.71
Growth Rates
1975/76-            99          176           132
1980/1881
1980/81-           100          198           155
1987/88
A - Enrollment figures include pre-school
Sources: Statistical Yearbook 1975/86, Ministry of Education
Educational Census, 1988 and mission estimates for 1987/88



-49-                                     NNEX VI
Tablo 2
HAM
Geographical Distribution of Educational Resources
Number of Students Enrolled in Primary Education
Educ-tionol _______
Region              Private Education                 Public Education             Total
Boya       Girls      Total  j  Boys         Girls   I  Total   Priv & PubJ
1 West              76.576     82,580    159,1561    31,314       28,915     60,229    219,385
2 Nonh         |    29,334      27.474     56,808,    17,515      17.857     35,372      92,180
3 Southeast         20,758      16,630     37,3881    10,930       9,336     20,266      S7,654
4 Northeast         10,480       9.660     20,1401     6,107       5.126     11.233      31.<73
5 Artibonite    j    36,684     33,027     69,7111    16.840      12,646     29,486      99.197
6 Central           20.348      17,216     37,564       7,996      5,728      13,724     51,288
7 South        |    36,779      34.301     71,080     15.642      14,736     30,378    101,458
8 Grande Anse       10,215       8,250     18,465     10,437       9.230     19,667      38,132
9 Northwest         18801      17,653     36,454       7,393      6.485     13,858      50,312
10 Nippes           13.033      11,398     24,431      6,013       5,036     11.0521    35.483
Total              273,008    258.189    531,1971   130.190    115,075    245,2651   776.462
Number of Schools
Educational
Region              Private Education                 Public Education         I  Total
Urban      Rural       Total      Urban      Rural       Total   Priv. & Pub.
1 West                 471        330        8011        126         86         2121      1,013,
2 North                225        182         407         68          77        1451        5521
3 Southeast             66        311         377         24         53          771        454
4 Northeast             90         36         1261        26          32         58         184
5 Artibonite           157        352         509i        43         86         1291       638
6 Central               98        221         3191        22         49          711       390
7 South                141        "18         559         57         46         102        661
8GrandeAnse I           60        1!2         172!        37          51         88,        260
9 Northwest   j         71        222         293         23         40          631        356
1O Nippes      1        22        228        250          11         30          41        291
Total                1,401       2,412      3,8131       437        549         9861      4,7991
Number of Classrooms
Educational
Region              Private Education                 Public Education             Total
_  Urban       Rural      Total    IUban         Rural      Total   Priv & Pub
1 West               2,944        839       3,783      1,170        372        1.542      5.325
2 North                847        335       1,182        470        259         729       1,911
3 Southeast            183        375         558        18o         176        356         914
4 Northeast            319         34         353        107         110        217         570
5 Artibonite           598        551       1,149        305 '      337         642       1,791
6 Central              288        288         576        118         115        233         809
7 South                565        832       1,397        418         199        617       2,014
8 Grande Anse          183        160         343        187         146        333         676
9 Northwest            323        467         790        171          98        269       1,059
10 Nippes      [        6S        373         441        114         112        226         68;
Total                6,318       4,254     10,5721      3,240      1,924       5,1641    15,73
Sources: Physical Plant Division and Stalistical Service Division of the Ministry for
National Education, Youth and Sports (MENJS); Haitian Institute of Statistics       haitledl.wkl



ANNEXV*
Table 3
HAM
FIFTH BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
F%.imial Educati*n of Teacher.
Known Number, and Estimates (1987-1988)
Years of                             Pdvate Sector                                     Public Sector               Public and Private Sectom Combined
Formal Education     Urban    Rural    Tota l                 9       Total    ToWta                 %       Total    Total        %        %       Total
Ormb dCoinplotod),                       Known   Known  Estimated Adjusted  Known   Known  Estimated Adjusted  Known   Known  Estimated Adjusted
Pdmaay School
Or Le" CEP'ouMoins)         465     1288      1753       15.4               2473       29        0.6                 36     1782       10.8               2427
Seventh (6)                260       682       942       8.3                1329       15       0,3                 19       957        5.8               1304
Eighth 7                  434       975      1409      12.4                1987       38       0.7                 48      1447        8.8              1971
NMnh (41                   871       985      1856      16.3               2618       315       6.2                395      2171       13.2              2957
Tenth (31                  928       677      1605       14.1               2264      920       18.2               1153     2525       15.3              3440
B.E.P.C.'                   412      169       581       5.1                 819      511       10.1               641      1092        6.6               1488
Eleventh (2)               597       266       863       7.6                1217      519      102                 651      1382       8.4               1803
Twefth (Rhto)              922       226      1148      10.1                1819      566       112                710      1714       10.4              2335
Ttfteenth Phllo)            435      101       536       4.7                 756       83        1.6               104       619        3.8               843
Teachor Trainin g
College (Normaien)         448        59       507       4.5                 715     1668      32.9               2091      2175       132               2963
CA-P.'                      111       41       152        1.3                214      395        7.8               495       547       3.3                 745
Univ"sity                    35        5        40       0.4                  56        8       0.2                 10t       48       0.3                 65
TotWaKnown                5918      5474    11392       100.0     70.9               5067       100      79.8              16459     100.0      73.4             a
Tota Estimated            2206      2470      4676                29.1               1286                20.2               5962                26.6
Combned Tota              8124      7944    16s0                 100.0    16067      6353               100.0     6353    22421                100.0    22341
'-iCee$tcat dEides Pdmdim
'-Tenth Grode High School Diploma
' - Coeric  dAptbtudo Pedgogiqu
Note: The timated number of teachers In each level of basic educaion is based on a redistibution of estimated cases
propoMonally according to the value In the *% Known' column. It Is possible that this method over-estimates the
werage qualicaons since the Information from weaker school districts Is probably less complete.
Source: MENJS, 1987-1988; mIsion eimat".
>g
CD0C
m X
W-4



-51-
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 4
HAITI
LiFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
History of IDA Involvement in the Education Sector
1.        IDA commitment to the educational development was conceived as a
long-term program, and four credits have been implemented thus far. The First
Education Prolect (Credit 618-HA, US$5 million, Fibruary 1976) covered the
building and equipping of 75 institutions, incl -.ng three primary teacher
training colleges and 72 primary schools. Provision was also made for
technical assistance and fellowships. The objectives of the project were to
develop an education system suited to the needs and development objectives of
Haiti in the absence of any national education strategy; to increase the
educational opportunities at primary school level for the most disadvantaged
sections of society (urban and rural); to increase the opportunities for
nonformal education (functional literacy for adult and over-age dropouts of
primary school), to implement a new primary school curriculum; and also to
improve educational planning, administration and supervision through achieving
better integration and coordination between the activities of various Haitian
agencies and units concerned with education and training. The project also
provided assistance to national education authorities to enhance their
management, planning, development and supervision capability, and established
the basis for coordinated action by different government administrative units
to achieve an integrated, national and economic approach to common problems
and purposes in the field of education development.
2.        The project was completed by December 1981, one year behind
schedule, due to lack of counterpart funds and construction delays. Aside
from evening adult education programs, most of the broad objectives were
fulfilled, and the project was relatively successful. It acted as a catalyst
for major improvements in education and provided support for the gradual
modernization of the system. Major lessons drawn from implementation were:
(a) construction of small dispersed rural schools was uneconomical for
contractors under normal contracting arrangements; a system of negotiated
contracts and direct supervision by the project unit has proved cheaper and
more effective; (b) there was a need for a solid staff development plan; (c)
there vas a need for a teaching material production unit when major curriculum
reform was promoted; and (d) counterpart funds had to be approved and released
on time.
3.        The Second Five-Year Development Plan (1976-81) placed the
provision of basic education services among its four priority objectives (the
others being agricultural and industrial development, and investment in basic
infrastructure). Accordingly, the Second Education Project (Credit 770-HA.
US$10 million, July 1978) intended to improve the access to, and relevance and
internal efficiency of, basic education; and to expand the supply and improve
the training of skilled and semi-skilled workers in Port-au-Prince and Cap



-52-
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 4
Haitien, as well as the skills of agricultural and rural development agents
and rural farm leaders in the North and Artibonite. To achieve these
objectives, the project provided for (i) the construction, furnishing and
equipping of 31 rural and 10 urban primary schools, one primary teacher
training college, one radio production facility, two secondary vocational
schools and one vocational training center, and one agricultural training
school; (ii) funds for inservice teacher training and the introduction of a
learning materials production program for grades 1 to 4; and (iii) supporting
technical assistance, staff training and studies.
4.        Deteriorating economic conditions made it necessary to diminish the
project scope. Deletions included the primary teacher training college and
one secondary vocational school (which were later included in the Fourth
Project), printing and supply of textbooks (transferred to the Third Project),
and the language study (which became obsolete after the introduction of the
reform). Overall, however, the project achieved its objective to support
basic education, although the elimination of the textbook component and
difficulties with the educational radio program may have diluted its impact.
The objective of strengthening manpower training, was pursued on a reduced
scale and was not fully attained. One training center ceased to function by
1986 for lack of funds to cover recurrent expenditures; the absence of
effective contacts with industry and other future employers also deprived the
training centers of a possible source of non-government support.
5.        Once the reform became official policy, an understanding was
reached that IDA-financed project schools would be required to use the reform
curricula and methods, as well as be staffed with qualified teachers. IDA's
support to the educational reform as a long-term program materialized in the
Third Education Project (Credit 1305-HA, SDR 8,4 million equivalent to US$9
million, January 1983) whose principal objectives were to implement important
elements of the reform, involving curriculum change and improved access to the
lower primary education cycle; and to enhance efficiency, quality and
management of primary education. The project was also designed to improve the
training of accountants and to introduce a uniform examination for
professional qualification at the National Institute for Management and
International Higher Studies (INAGHEI).
6.        The initial design of the project included: (a) constructing,
furnishing and equipping about 45 schools for grades 1-4, totaling 180
classrooms. These included a pre-school center and a family education room in
each school to be used for literacy classes for young adults and for community
meetings, and the provision of housing facilities for four teachers in all 45
schools; (b) accountants training at INAGHEI; (c) the support of the
educational reform by improving IPN's Curriculum Development Unit; and (d) the
provision of technical assistance by UNESCO under the United Nations
Development Program financed country assistance program. The project also
financed staff salaries of the UPEF and the Education Reform Committee,
monitoring and evaluation studies, and technical assistance.
7.        Delays in the execution of civil works aspects and the need to
limit recurrent expenditures diminished project scope. In June 1986, the



-53-
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
credit was amended to (a) limit construction to 11 schools or 81 classrooms
instead of 45 schools, to construct and furnish accommodations for 18 teachers
instead of 180; (b) repair and expand 20 existing schools and rehabilitate 78
schools damaged during social disturbances of February 1986; (c) add a
computer laboratory at INAGHEI for use of private schools; and (d) increase
the percentage of disbursement for construction due to the chronic lack of
counterpart funds. By the end of the project, 11 new schools were finished,
20 existing schools were rehabilitated, 64 instead of 78 schools built under
the First and Second Education Projects were rehabilitated, and accommodations
for only eight teachers (two housing facilities) were constructed. The
project was instrumental in initiating the process of educational reform
prepared by the Government. However, lack of full consensus for the reform
program especially for greater use of Creole, may have impeded implementation.
8.        The project was initially planned for an implementation period of
five years but due to its limited scope, it was redesigned for a period of
three and a half years. The new project that was appraised in 1985 included,
among other things, the activities originally planned for the fourth and fifth
years.
9.        The Fourth Education Proiect (Credit 1592-HA, SDR 10.4 million
equivalent to US$10 million, June 1985) has been cofinanced by the Swiss
Government (SwF 15 million, about US$9.7 million equivalent). The project
supports the second phase of the education reform, including
vocational/technical training and training in public administration. Its
objectives are: (a) to improve working conditions through the provision of
transportation for inspectors and support of the Teacher Charter; and quality,
through curriculum development, training for teachers, directors, inspectors,
development of educational materials, evaluation studies and pedagogical
support (IPN); (b) introduce vocational/technical training reform through
experimentation with new curricula, remodelling, equipping and teacher
training in five vocational centers and four technical training centers
(INFP); (c) strengthen education sector management through the provision of
computer systems; carrying out studies; and organizing the school construction
department of MENJS; and providing technical assistance to various
institutions; and (d) improve the public administration training through the
construction of the public administratior training center (CrFOPAFOP).  The
project also finances incremental salaries for basic education staff:
inspectors, teachers, and directors of schools in the public and private
sectors; and salaries of staff at IPN, INFP, and the UPEF.
10.   Implementation of the project has had a slow start due to political
disturbances which led to the ousting of President Duvalier in February 1986.
However, the construction of CEFOPAFOP was on schedule; to facilitate an
administration reform through CEFOPAFOP, the Credit was amended in 1986 to
increase the disbursement percentage for civil works. Another amendment in
1986 designated the Swiss Government cofinancing for private-sector
activities, such as salary subsidies, textbooks, and teaching materials. A
1989 amendment stated that the renewed assistance to the private sector would
be financed by IDA on a declining basis and by the Swiss Government on an
increasing basis. Subsidies have included wage supplements (83.25 percent),



-54-
ANNx VII
Page 4 of 4
educational materials (9.25 porcent), and management resources (7.5 percent).
With the first contract, US$1 million were allocated to 1,080 schools and wage
supplements were given to 5,141 teachers with an amount varying between 90 and
200 dollars a year. The second contract was directed to 1,848 schools and
6838 teachers in the catholic and protestant sectors. The protestant sector
doubled the number of teachers receiving the supplement and allocated a fixed
amount of US$81 to each a year. It is expected that MENJS would progressively
integrate the private sector into the national education system and eventually
take over the subsidies.



-55-
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 3
HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Sector Policy and Program Development
Background
1.    Policies have been developed in Haiti in the past.  All previous
education projects have attempted to help the Borrower develop plans to
improve various subsectors of Haitian education. However, many of the plans
that were developed were rendered ineffective by the deteriorating economy and
political instability. Given the limited implementation capacity of the
public sector, the lack of experience of many new Government officials, and
the leadership that the private sector has assumed to fill the policy void, it
is important that policies for the next few years focus more on feasible
actions, even of small magnitude.
2.    In general terms, issues of the education sector, its priorities,
problems, and potential solutions are known in Haiti. Several studies,
including two recent comprehensive sector reports by the French consulting
firm IREDU and the Canadian International Development Agency have established
the salient issues Pnd presented data in considerable detail. What is less
well known is (a) the extent to which improvements in various areas is
feasible and (b) how to proceed in an orderly way to attain real development
of the sector.
3.    An initial exercise of defining feasible actions has already taken
place. During the appraisal mission of the Fifth Education project, a
brainstorming meeting was organized and attended by some of the most prominent
Haitian educators from the public and private sectors, as well as by
representatives of international organizations. Approximately 20 topics were
proposed for study and action plan development. These have been organized in
four areas as described in Chapter III of the main text of this report.
Organization of the Studies
4.    The studies would be managed by the PIU.  A Coordinating Committee
composed of prominent Haitian educators from UNDP/UNESCO, FONHEP and MENJS
would act as the technical advisory body of the PIU for the management of
these studies. The studies would be financed by IDA and the Committee would
be supported, in part, through UNDP resources. The initial task of the
Coordinating Committee would be to approve the final terms of reference
covering the issues to be studied, and to recommend the consultants who would
carry out these studies (see Table 3.1 in the main text).   The contracting of
the consultants would be made by the PIU upon recommendation of the Committee,
using procedures acceptable to IDA and using lecal and international
consultants with qualifications acceptable to IDA. Although the technical
work for the studies would be carried out by the consultants, each study would



-56-
ANNEX Vili.
Page 2 of 3
be under the leadership of the sector institution(s) for which the policy
recommendations are moat relevant: DEF for the first study on curricula and
instructional delivery; MENJS for the second study on financing; MENJS for the
third study on institutional set up, and; DGS for the fourth study on physical
condition of schools. The institutions providing leadership to the
consultants would be responsible for ensuring that national counterpart are
available to the consultants, as well as a work sp&ce if relevant, and they
would be the major source of information and data for the carrying out of the
study. The Committee would carry out the technical supervisioni of the studies
and would approve their respective output and recommendations. The Committee
would also ensure appropriate coordination, exchanges of information and
consistency between studies, as necessary. The Committee would present to the
Minister of MENJS the package of results, policy recommendations and
corresponding action plans following the recommendation of the consultants.
The Minister would forward such package to IDA. A donors' meeting would be
organized by IDA in order to ensure sectoral coordination and financing. The
result of this donor meeting, in turn, would represent a major basis for
future lending.
Timing of the Studies
5.    The contracting of the consultants would be done by September 1991,
before or shortly after the credit effectiveness. The studies would be
completed in the first year of project implementation, by October 1992. The
presentation of the studies' results and corresponding policy and action plans
to IDA would be made by December 31, 1992. IDA would organize the donors'
meeting in March 1993, leading to the definition of cofinancing plans for
possible future projects.
Description of the Studies
6.    There would be four studies centered on the issues of curricula
development and instructional delivery; institutional organization and
coordination; sector financing, and; the physical conditions of schools and
their construction and maintenance (see Table 3.1 in the main text). The
studies would focus on issues on which there is a lack of detailed information
and for which extra information would actually affect medium- and long-term
policy definition and investment. They would present realistic assessments on
the improvements that are possible in the short- and medium-term and would
outline feasible interventions. The studies would be brief, highly targeted
towards the definition of action plans and recommendations. Although written
output is necessary, the purpose of these studies would not be to produce
another education sector report: output, therefore, would mainly consist of
action plans and presentation of the quantitative or qualitative data on which
they are based. The output would specifically dwell on the obstacles to the
realization of the action plans and the measures needed to overcome them. An
important aspect of the output would be the assessment of the feasibility of
desirable action plans. The studies would establish:



-57-
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 3
(a)    policies/procedures that can be realistically instituted given
current conditions;
(b)    identification of realistically removable technical and
institutional obstacles to policy implementation;
(c)    feasible plans of action for overcoming the above obstacles;
(d)    quantitative targets and time tables that can be realistically
achieved.
7.    The development of policy recommendations and action plans would contain
the following components:
(b)    Literature review would include publications listed in Annex 12
as well as,other local publications that may exist. It would
take place one mouth after the selection of consultants, and its
results would be presented to a Coordinating Committee meeting.
Final decisions would then be made on the scope of the additional
data to be collected.
(c)    Data collection and analysis would be a flexible exercise,
adapted to the information needs of the policy and investment
program development. Statistical data collection may take place
for some issues, but the bulk of the information would probably
be gathered through field visits and interviews with users and
providers of educational services. Date. analysis would include
inferences from existing data sets and information contained in
existing studies and publications. Progress reports would be
written by consultants and given to the Coordinating Committee
approximately once a month. It is expected that data collection
would be completed by July 1992.
(d)    Policy recommendations and action vlans would include feasible
quantitative targets and timetables by which results can be
achieved in terms of the provision of the services (e.g.
financing of the sector, inatitutional set up, supervision,
approval production and distribution of textbookr, maintenance
systems) as well as in terms of results among dtudents (e.g. the
percentage of enrollment increases or reduction of dropout that
can be achieved given current constraints).
Staff
8.    Staff would be local and international consultants with extensive
experience in Haiti. An informal twinning arrangement with academic
institutions that have done extensive work in Haiti might be explored.



-58-
ANNX IXX
Paga 1 of 2
HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
POLICY LETTER
Mr. S. Shahid Husain
Vice-President
Latin American and Caribbean Region
World Bank
OBJECTIVE:      The development of an education sector policy in the
years 1991-93 as part of the Fifth Education Project
Introduction
1.        On February 21, 1991, an elected Government took office in Haiti.
One of our important goal. is to develop the human resources that will enable
Haiti to improve its economy and standard of living. One of our highest
priorities, therefore, is the development of an education sector policy that
will be responsive to the multiple needs of Haitian citizens. IDA's Fifth
Education project will be a vehicle for the financing and coordination of
policy studies and sector development.
2.        The proposed project will provide the opportunity for continued
policy dialogue with the International Development Association (IDA) and
further coordinatior with our private schools and with local and international
donors. It is the intention of the Government of Haiti that these policies be
elaborated during the course of the project with the goal of preparing an
investment progran. that could be, in part, implemented through a sixth
education project, This letter outlines the primary policy issues wLich will
be further developed in the course of the next three years.
(a) Access: Increased access to primary education, particularly the
first four grades, with the eventual goal of universal primary
education; decrease of the high proportion of overage students;
(b)  Instructional aualitv:  Availability of textbooks to students,
adequate teacher preparation for teaching; consolidation of a
widely accepted post-reform curriculum; dissemination of effective
instructional methodologies;
(c) Educational finance: Provision of affordable schooling to the
poor; sectoral financing with adequate provision for investment
expend ltures and non-salary recurrent expenditures; support to



-59-
Pago 2 of 2
private schools which serve the poorl decrease of duplication and
wastage of funds in the s-ctor. It should b- noted that the
financing of FONHEP an the loading private institution of the
sector would be articulated within the financing plan for the
:ector;
(d) oroanizational manacement: Improved coordination between MENJS and
private schools, geographically as well as subsectorally;
(e) Physical facilities: Improved physical condition of schools;
implementation of an effective, community-based maintenance
program; improvement of school de-ign to diminish soil erosion.
3.        The Government of Haiti has given to the Ministry of Education,
Youth, and Sports the responsibility for the implementation and elaboration of
national policies in the above areas. The policy and program development
recommendations and action plans will specify feasible targets and time tables
for the attainment of our various objectives. We plan to contract the studies
no later than September 1991, and to send to IDA the results of these studies
and corresponding policy recommendations no later than December 31. 1992. It
is our intention to Implement these recommendations as soon as possible during
the first semestar of 1993, as well as to permit the organization by IDA of a
donors meeting in March 1993, that would help finalize the financing for an
integrated investment program for the sector (including the private sector).
Sincerely,
Leslie Voltaire
Minister of Education, Youth, and Sports



-60-
ANNEX X
Page 1 of 7
HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1: PROJECT COMPONENTS BY YEAR
(US$ Million)
Components                      1991-92     1992-93      1993-94          Total
A. Policy Development            0.27        0.23          0.19            0.69
B. Quality Improvement           1.49        4.92          4.46           10.87
C. Resource Management           0.96        1.00          0.99            2.95
Total Project Cost         2.72         6.15          5.64           14.51
Costs include contingencies



ANNEX X
-61l-                      Page 2 of 7
HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 2: Summary Accounts - Cost Summary
(US$ Million)
Local   Foreign    Total
I. Investment Costs
Civil Works                          1.06      1.07      2.13
Construction Supervision             0.24      0.08      0.32
Furniture                            0.47      0.47      0.94
Equipment                            0.00      0.66      0.6 
Technical Assistance
Foreign Experts                    0.00      0.31      0.31
Local Erperts                      0.33     0.02      0.35
Training                             1.68      0.09      1.77
Instructional Materials              0.07      0.25      0.32
Books                                0.13      0.54      0.67
TZ~ravel
International                      0.00     0.02      0.02
Local                              0.03      0.00     0.03
Other Costs                          0.44      0.10      0.54
Total Investment Costs               4.46      3.60      8.06
II. Recurrent Costs
Salaries                             4.04      0.12      4.16
Other Operating Costs                0.87      0.12      0.99
Total Recurrent Costs                4.91      0.24      5.15
Total Baseline Costs                 9.37      3.84     13.21
Physical Contirgencies               0.31      0.19      0.50
Price Contingencies                  0.4a      0.34      0.80
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 10.14      4.37     14.51
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.



-62-                                 ANNEXX
Page 3 of 7
HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 3: Summary Accounts by Year
(US$ Million)
Base Costs                Forolgn Exchange
1. Investment Costs           1991/92   1992V93  1993/94    Total      %      Amount
Civil Works                         0.12      1.23     0.77      2.13      50.0     1.07
Construction Supervision            0.07      0.17     0.08      0.32      24.2     0.08
Fumiture                            0.05      0.54     C.35      0.94      50.0     0.47
Equipment                           0.18      0.26     0.22      0.66     100.0     0.66
Technical Assistance
Foreign Experts                   0.13     0.11      0.07      0.31    100.0      0.31
Local Experts                     0.15     0.10      0.09      0.35      5.0      0.02
Train.ng                            0.34      0.72     0.71      1.77       5.0     0.09
Instructional Materials             0.07      0.13     0.13      0.32      77.7     0.25
Books                               0.00      0.46     0.21      0.67      80.0     0.54
Travel
International Travel              0.01     0.01      0.00      0.02    100.0      0.02
Local Travel                      0.01     0.01      0.01      0.03      9.2      0.00
Other Costs                         0.19      0.18     0.18      0.54      19.9     0.10
Total Investment Costs              1.32     3.92      2.82      8.06     44.7      3.60
II. Recurrent Costs
Salaries                            1.16      1.50     1.50      4.16       2.9     0.12
Other Operating Costs               0.12      0.21     0.66      0.99      12.1     0.12
Total Recurrent Costs               1.28      1.71     2.16      5.15       4.7     0.24
Total Baseline Costs                2.60      5.61     4.99     13.21      29.1     3.84
Physical Contingencies              0.07      0.24     0.19      0.50      38.0     0.19
Price Contingencies                 0.05      0.30     0.45      0.80      42.6     0.34
Total Project Costs                 2.72     6.15      5.64     14.51     30.1      4.37
Taxes                               0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00       0.0     0.00
Foreign Fxchange                    0.75      2.04     1.58      4.37     100.0     4.37
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.



-63-                               ANNEXX
Page 4 of 7
HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 4: Summary Accounts by Project Component
(USS Million)
Policy      Quality      Resource
I. Investment Costs              Development Improvement Management          Total
Civil Works                                 0.00         2.13          0.00         2.13
Construction Supervision                    0.00         0.32          0.00         0.32
Furniture                                   0.00         0.94          0.00         0.94
Equipment                                   0.07         0.55          0.04         0.66
Technical Assistance
Foreign Experts                          0.26          0.05         0.00         0.31
Local Experts                            0.22          0.00         0.13         0.35
Training                                    0.00         1.77          0.00         1.77
Instructional Materials                     0.00         0.32          0.00         0.32
Books                                       0.00         0.67          0.00         0.67
Travoel
International Travel                     0.01          0.00         0.01         0.02
Local Travel                             0.02          0.01         0.00         0.03
Other Costs                                 0.05         0.01          0.48         0.54
Total Investment Costs                      0.63         6.77         0.66          8.06;
;I Recurrent Costs
Salaries                                    0.00         2.48          1.68         4.16
Other Operating Costs                       0.01         0.58          0.40         0.99
Total Recurrent Costs                       0.01         3.06          2.08         5.15
Total Baseline Costs                        0.64         9.81          2.76        13.21
Physical Contingencies                      0.02         0.43          0.05         0.50
Price Contingencies                         0.03         0.62          0.15         0.80'
Total Project Costs                         0.69        10.87          2.95        14.51
Taxes                                       0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
Foreign Exchange                            0.53         3.68          0.16         4.37
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.



-64-
ANNEX X
Page 5 of 7
HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 5: ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
Category                                Credit Amount    Disbursement
1. Goods, furniture, and textbook
acquisition and distribution for:
(a) public sector                2.30    85Z for locally procured
imported items
(b) private sector               0.20   1002 of otbsr expenditures
(c) LSMS                         0.10
2. Civil Works for:
(a) public sector                1.80   100I of expenditures
(b) private sector               0.20   100Z of expenditures
3. PIU operating costs, operating expenses
of public-schools pedagogical              0.70   1002 of expenditures
advisors
4. Salary supplements, operating expenses
of private-sector pedagogical              2.90   1002 of expenditures
advisors
5. Consultant services, studies, and
training, and studies for:
(a) public sector                2.50   1002 of expenditures
(b) private sector               0.10
(c) LSMS                         0.30
6. Unallocated                                 1.51
TOTAL                                      12.61



-65-
ANNEX X
Page 6 of 7
A FIFTH WDUCATION PROJECT
T-bl- 6j ESTIMATED SCHEDULZ OF DISIURSKHEETS
IDA FY                       Disbursements             Cumulative
Semester Ending               A2munt                   Amount      x
FY92
December 31                   0.4       3               0.4        3
June 30                       1.4      11               1.8       14
FY93
December 31                   2.0      15               3.8       30
June 30                       2.3      19               6.1       48
FY94
December 31                   2.3      19               8.4       67
June 30                       2.2      18              10.6       84
FY95
June 30                       2.0      15              12.6      100
Project completion dates June 30, 1995
Project closing date: December 31, 1995



-66-
Page 7 of 7
riFTm IDUCTIOn PROJECT
Table 7t IHPLIEKETATION SCUKDULZ
Preparation  Effectiveness -,                   Completion
June 30       June 30   June 30    June 30    June 30
1991          1992       1993        1994        1995
Activities
Civil Works
- Preliminary designs
- Working drawings
and specifications
- Tender for construction work
- Section of contractors;
startup of construction work                       --------------------
Furniture/EguiRLment
- Procurement bidding docs
- Distribution                         _
Policy Development
- Agreement on TORs
- Selection of consultants
- Implementation of studies
- Presentation of results
- Policy development discussions
Trainin-a
- Selection of consultants               _
- Definition of curricula                          _
- Selection of participants
- Instruction
- Follow-up
Pedatotical Material.
- Selection of materials
- Procurement documments
- Delivery
Books
- Sclection of materials
- Procurement docuemmnts
- Delivery
Resource Manasement
- Selection of consultants             _
- Collection of data_                                   _
- Reconciliation of personnel
and budget records



-67-
bNX- xi
Page 1 of 2
HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
List of Documents in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1.    "Rapport d'une Etude Exploratoire Portant sur le Secteur de
l'Education de Base en Haiti", le Bureau d'appui & la coop6ration
canadienna BACC, Haiti, d6cembre 1989.
A.2.    "Le Moniteur, Journal Officiel de la R6publique d'Haiti, D6cret",
Edgar Jean, lundi 5 juin, 1989.
A.3.    "PROBED: Midterm Evaluation", Uli Locher, Bettina Moll-Druecker and
Eve Epstein, June 1989.
A.4.    "Haiti Education and Human Resources Sector Assessment", The Institute
for International Research, Inc., June 1985.
A.5.    "Avant - Projet de Rapport de la Commission d'Evaluation de l'I.P.N.",
Ministure de l'Education Nationale, juillet 1988.
A.6.    "Analyse Economique et Financi&re du Secteur de l'Education en
R6publique d'Haiti", Jean Bourdon and Jean Perrot, octobre 1990.
A.7.    "Analyse Economique et Financi6re du Secteur de l'Education en
Ropublique d'Haiti (Extraits)", Jean Bourdon and Jean Perrot,
septembre 1990.
A.8.    "Formation des Enseignants dans l  Secteur - Document Priv6 de
Travail", Unit& de Recherche et D6veloppement du CollAge Universitaire
Caraibe, mai 1990.
A.9.    "Pr6sentation do la PONHEP", Angle Rues des Casernes et du Quai,
novembre 1989.
A 10.   "Education and Human Resources Sector Assessment (Volumes I to IV)",
IEES and USAID, March 1987.



-68-
ANE% X1
Page 2 of 2
B. Selected ReDorts and Studies Related to the P-,oiect
B.1.    Base de donn6as op6rationnelles concernant lea 6coles priv6es.
B.2.    Rapport de mission, Jean Moisset, octobrs 1990.
B.3.    Archevach6 du Cap-Haitien, Bureau de l'Education, Fiche
d'Identification des Ecoles Presbyt6ralos.
B.4.    Archevach6 du Cap-Haitieri, Bureau de l'Education, Cr6ation d'une Ecole
Professorale 2our la formation de Directeurs. Budget pr6visionnel,
devis, charges additionnelles r6currentes, grille des salaires,
statistiques, liste des 6coles A r6nover, dossiers. Cap-Haitien le 23
septembre 1990.
B.5.    Commission Episcopale dis Ecoles Catholiques, Projet de compl6ment
salarial. Proiet de renforcement de l'enseiznement du frangais. Proiet
d'6cole de formation des maitres en service.
B.6.    Rapport du consultant en controle financier (Monsieur Bastien) sur lea
finances du MENJS, 30 septembre 1990, 11 pp.
B.7.    UPEF, Liste de 50 6coles pr6s6lectionn6es en vue des op6rations du
50me Droiet pour le secteur gublic - (DUpartement du centre - 30
6coles, D6partement de l'Artibonite - 20 6coles), septembre 1990.
B.8.    MENJS: phase pr6paratoire de la mise en place de la carte scolaire en
Haiti, novembre 1990, 8 pp.
B.9.    The IIBE Project:  The Haiti Perspective, Nov. 1990, 17 pp.
C.  Selected Documents Prepared by Bank Staff and Consultants
C.1.    Project costs.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 22879
10v D____  I                                                   2000 1
\  C   X                D                 zzt'                   - %   -" -;{Xs^ge',                                              01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 7'O
H A I T0
6                                                            --  OoOO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT                                                       <odS)er~a~>                        o$od ~  
Public Schools R.h.bilit.ti.. ANO
E  Reglonol   OFfikoI FEPH                                                           , r;                              'IT   qlt-   c
0O O  NO       O O U 0 tV 0 r                /4X<                                                   - 't          \  W r
-      Aep h.lmelf ufrts\                                                                                           {*~ 
U1-0  NUO20t   l04oa0S- -                                                                                             0ro0 
-.-            00*Ur-                                                                                                  -- --------   OTT
OSO^bOO   Shit                                             ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~            ~ ~~ ~~ ~~PORT-AU-PRINCE; =X \3 
0 A^zzl({~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----.----                                                     osW3 0-e6?*#    s} *r*;setlf)
;  AlS,   t,hi NU                                                                    0   I
X "":'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*";~~~~~~~~~~              0,0'n?( ,  0ooO
Rood Netooork:             30 _00 00"                                          02,     o



