Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15401
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2264-HA)
FEBRUARY 26, 1996
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At appraisal (September 1991) US$1= 5.00 Gourdes
Current (January 1996) US$1 = 15.00 Gourdes
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ACADEMIC YEAR
October 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FONHEP    Fondation Haitienne de l'Enseignement Prive
MENJS        Ministere de l'Education Nationale, de la Jeunesse et des
Sports



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FIFTH EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 2264-HA)
1.    This is a Project Completion Note for the Fifth Education Project (Loan 2264-
HA). The project was never declared effective.
2.    Background. The original project was designed as a specific investment project
with limited scope and duration, to set the conditions and carry out technical preparation
for future lending that would strengthen and expand basic education within an integrated
public/private financing and management framework. The project was appraised in
September 1990, negotiated in April 1991, and approved by the Bank's Board in June
1991. The credit agreement was signed in September 1991, but the project never became
effective, because the coup d'etat that took place the same month led to the termination of
all international assistance to the de facto government.
3.    Objectives. The specific objectives of the project were to develop a sustainable
sector policy and investment program, improve the quality of primary level instruction,
and improve the resource management capacity of the Ministry of Education and private
sector primary schools.
4.    Description. The project comprised three main components: (a) sector policy and
investment program development, to improve primary-level delivery, sector financing,
institutional setup, and primary school construction and maintenance; (b) primary
education quality improvement, through training for private and public sector pedagogical
advisors, in-service training for teachers, principals and directors, provision of textbooks,
institution of achievement tests, and rehabilitation of schools; and (c) resource
management, to upgrade management, budgeting and personnel systems, rationalize
admninistrative and accounting procedures, and finance project administration. Total
project cost was estimated at US$ 14.5 million; the credit amount was SDR 9.4 million
(US$ 12.6 million equivalent).
5.    Anticipated Benefits and Risks. The project was expected to consolidate the
gains of previous education projects with respect to the education reform, the priority
given by the Government to the education sector, the quality improvement, and the
willingness of the private sector to participate in an integrated sector development effort.
The project faced major risks associated with the possibility of continued financial distress,
economic instability and an uncertain sociopolitical environment. In the four previous
education projects, minimal progress had been made in the development of institutional
capacity within the Ministry of Education.
6.    Delays in Credit Effectiveness and Project Cancellation. On September 30.
1991, five days after the Credit was signed, President Aristide's Government was
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Barnk authorization.



overthrown by a military coup which resulted in the imposition of an international trade
embargo and the suspension of almost all donor assistance, except for humanitarian aid.
7.    In July 1993, the Governor's Island Agreement was reached to pave the way to a
peaceful resolution of Haiti's political crisis. In August 1903, an elected government came
into office, led by Prime Minister Malval. At the request of the new Minister of
Education, a Bank mission was sent in October 1993 to restructure the project and
respond to the Government's wish to promote emergency actions which would have a
positive economic and social impact. The mission found that the education situation had
deteriorated steadily since the Coup, but that the project objectives remained appropriate.
Minor adjustments were suggested to provide for additional flexibility in view of Haiti's
evolving situation. A Credit Amendment was prepared but not signed as the Governor's
Island Agreement broke down, leading to the resignation of Prime Minister Malval's
government and a renewed period of unconstitutional rule in Haiti. In order to free up
unused IDA resources, the credit was canceled on March 9, 1994.
8.    Lessons Learned. Even though the project never became effective, the major
lesson learned is that the activities proposed for the project were very important for the
country. They were already necessary to Haiti's sustainable development when the project
was prepared, and they are even more vital now to Haiti's reconstruction needs. As
indicated in the report of the first inter-agency mission which visited Haiti after the return
of the constitutional government in October 1994, "it is highly unlikely that much
economic progress can be achieved in the absence of improvement in education quality
and access."'
I  Inter-American Development Bank, Emergency Economic Recoverv Program: Haiti. Report of the
Joint Mission (November 7-20, 1994).



BASIC CREDIT DATA
Project:                 Haiti Fifth Education Project
Estimated Project Cost:  US$ 14.5 million equivalent
Credit Amount:            SDR 9.4 million (US$ 12.6 million equivalent)
Borrower:                Republic of Haiti
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports (MENJS)
Beneficiaries:           Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports (MENJS), Haitian
Foundation for Private Education (FONHEP), teachers and
students.
Time Taken to Prepare
the Project:              18 months
Project Appraisal:       September 17, 1990
Project Negotiations:    April 29, 1991
Board Presentation:      June 11, 1991
Credit Signing:          September 25, 1991
Credit Cancellation:     March 9, 1994









iMAUINU
Report No:      15401
l'ype: PCN



