                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR00003151



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IBRD-73220)



                                           ON A

                                           LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$50 MILLION


                                          TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF PERU

                                           FOR A

    REGIONAL TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT



                                     December 24, 2014




Transport and ICT Global Practice
Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador and Peru Country Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective December 24, 2014)
                          Currency Unit = Peruvian Nuevo Sol
                                  2.97 PEN = US$1

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1 – December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AADT    Average Annual Daily Traffic                PAD     Project Appraisal Document
CBA     Cost Benefit Analysis                       PATS    Programa Apoyo Transporte Sub-nacional
                                                            (Subnational Transport Support Project)
CEA     Cost Effectiveness Analysis                 PDO     Project Development Objective
CND     Consejo Nacional de Descentralización       PCD     Programa Caminos Descentralizada (Regional
                                                            Roads Decentralization Project)
DGASA   Dirección General de Aspectos Sociales y    PCR     Programa Caminos Rural (First Rural Roads
        Ambientales, (Environmental and Social              Project)
        Unit of the MTC)
ERR     Economic Rate of Return                     PCR2    Programa Caminos Rural 2(Second Rural Roads
                                                            Project)
GOP     Government of Peru                          PTRD    Programa Transporte Rural Descentralizada
                                                            (Decentralized Rural Transport Project)
ICR     Implementation Completion Report            PVD     Provias Descentralizada
IDB     Inter-American Development Bank             RED     Road Economic Decision (model)
ISR     Implementation Status Report                RIMU    Regional Infrastructure Management Unit
MEF     Ministry of Economy and Finance             RRD     Regional Road Directorates
MTC     Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones   SEPA    Sistema de Ejecución de Planes de Adquisiciones
        (Ministry of Transport & Communications)            (system to implement procurement plans)
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization               SIAF    Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera
NPV     Net Present Value                           SIL     Specific Investment Loan




             Senior Global Practice Director: Pierre Guislain
                           Practice Manager: Aurelio Menendez
                       Project Team Leader: Anna Okola
                          ICR Team Leader: Anna Okola
                                          PERU
                 Regional Transport Infrastructure Decentralization Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 22
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 24
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 25
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 26
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 30
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 38
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 50
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 53
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 66
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 67
  MAP…………………………………………………………………………………...68
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Regional Transport
Country:                Peru                    Project Name:             Infrastructure
                                                                          Decentralization
Project ID:             P078813                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-73220
ICR Date:               12/24/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          PERU
Original Total
                        USD 50.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 41.60M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 41.60M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Provias Descentralizado- Ministerio de Transportes y Comunicaciones
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 IDB

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/14/2004     Effectiveness:            04/10/2006         04/10/2006
                                                                                  05/06/2010
Appraisal:            04/25/2005     Restructuring(s):                            06/10/2010
                                                                                  12/18/2013
Approval:             07/12/2005     Mid-term Review:          06/30/2008         09/17/2009
                                     Closing:                  06/30/2010         06/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      5                      5
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                              70                  70
Sub-national government administration                                25                  25


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               22                  22
Decentralization                                                      23                  23
Infrastructure services for private sector development                22                  22
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                      11                  11
procurement
Rural services and infrastructure                                     22                  22

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Jorge Familiar Calderon              Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Alberto Rodriguez                    Marcelo Giugale
Practice
                           Aurelio Menendez                     Jose Luis Irigoyen
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Anna R. Okola                        Aurelio Menendez
ICR Team Leader:           Anna R. Okola
ICR Primary Author:        Anna R. Okola
                           Mirtha Susan S. De Pokorny




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to improve - through decentralization at the regional
level - the prioritization, efficiency and effectiveness of regional transport interventions
and, hence, their contribution to regional development and poverty alleviation by
enhancing transport conditions in the Borrower’s territory (Peru).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised. The target for the second PDO indicator “increase in the
quality of regional transport infrastructure as measured by % of the secondary network in
good conditions” was reduced from 35% to 17% in a level two corrective restructuring
approved by World Bank management on 7/23/2010 following a mid-term review, to
reflect more realistic civil works targets following the delays experienced initiating the
project, as well as increased construction costs and reclassification of roads as challenges
in implementation. Due to reclassification (determined by GOP) of roads, the original
regional road network length increased from 14,270km at appraisal to 23,740 km. With
new network length, the new baseline became 9%.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                                Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                   approval           Target       Completion or
                                                 documents)           Values        Target Years
                  Increase in the use of regional transport infrastructure as measured by decreased
Indicator 1 :
                  transport tariffs along upgraded regional roads.
Value
quantitative or   n/a                       10%                 n/a             n/a
Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/12/2005                  07/13/2005          06/30/2014      06/30/2014
Comments          This target was not measured throughout the project. Perception survey results
(incl. %          are mixed. The indicator was not the most appropriate selection as discussed in
achievement)      ICR. See 2.3
                  Increase in the quality of regional transport infrastructure as measured by % of
Indicator 2 :
                  the secondary network in good conditions.
Value
quantitative or 15%                        35%                17%            16%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/12/2005                   07/13/2005         06/30/2014     06/30/2014
                Reclassification increased regional road network (23,740km) from 14,270km at
Comments
                appraisal. PCD achieved 94% of revised target, compared to new baseline of 9%.
(incl. %
                Since network changed, original target no longer valid, achieved 46% of original
achievement)
                target (see table).




                                                  iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                  Number of participatory regional road plans approved by the regional council or
Indicator 1 :
                  the competent commission of the regional council, in line with agreed standards.
Value
(quantitative     8                          20                  24             24
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/12/2005                 07/13/2005          07/23/2010     05/31/2014
Comments
                   100% achieved of revised target, all regions prepared plans (achieved 120% of
(incl. %
                  original target) number of participating regions reduced, see Annex2.
achievement)
                  Number of km of regional roads prioritized through participatory planning and
Indicator 2 :
                  rehabilitated according to agreed standards.
Value
(quantitative     0                          2200                1781           1562
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/12/2005                 07/13/2005          07/23/2010     06/30/2014
Comments
                   88% achieved, the project substantially achieved the overall revised target.
(incl. %
                  (achieved 71% of the original target)
achievement)
                  Number of km of regional roads rehabilitated by Provias Rural and transferred to
Indicator 3 :     regional governments undergoing periodic maintenance according to agreed
                  standards.
Value
(quantitative     0                          2700                2202           3541
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/12/2005               07/13/2005          07/23/2010     05/31/2014
Comments           161% achieved. The target was exceeded thanks in large part to the technical
(incl. %          assistance provided by PVD to the regional governments. (achieved 131% of
achievement)      original target)
                  Number of km of regional roads receiving routine maintenance according to
Indicator 4 :
                  agreed standards.
Value
(quantitative   2706                        4900               4219           2570
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/12/2005                    07/13/2005         07/23/2010     06/30/2014
                The annual number of kilometers receiving routine maintenance varied over the
Comments
                period of the project, the number indicated is an average over the project period,
(incl. %
                which reflects a 61% achievement (52% achieved of original), and is lower than
achievement)
                the baseline.
Indicator 5 : Number of micro-enterprises created
Value
(quantitative   100                         180                169            110
or Qualitative)


                                                  iv
Date achieved 07/12/2005                     07/13/2005         07/23/2010     06/30/2014
                 The project maintained up to 110 microenterprises reflecting a 65% achievement
Comments
                over the life of the project (61% achieved of original). However, as only 10
(incl. %
                microenterprises were created, this is a 14% gain with respect to the intended
achievement)
                target (12.5% of original)
                Proportion of participating regional governments which have successfully
Indicator 6 :
                implemented the reforms described in their institutional agreements.
Value
(quantitative   0%                           100%               71%            71%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/12/2005                     07/13/2005         07/23/2010     05/31/2014
Comments         100% achieved (71% of original). This indicator reflects the signing of
(incl. %        agreements, which, as indicated in the ICR, does not measure the institutional
achievement) improvements expected in the participating regions.
Indicator 7 : Roads rehabilitated, Non-rural
Value
(quantitative   0                            2200               1781           1562
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 07/12/2005                     07/13/2005         07/23/2010     06/30/2014
Comments
                 88% achieved, (71% of original) this indicator was added later to be consistent
(incl. %
                with the new core indicators, it is the same as Indicator 2 above.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     06/12/2006         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.13
  2     10/31/2006         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.13
  3     04/13/2007     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              0.13
                            Moderately                    Moderately
  4     12/18/2007                                                                       0.80
                          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately                    Moderately
  5     06/20/2008                                                                       2.62
                          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately                    Moderately
  6     12/24/2008                                                                       4.50
                          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  7     04/09/2009     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             4.50
                            Moderately                    Moderately
  8     10/01/2009                                                                       6.14
                          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                            Moderately                    Moderately
  9     03/17/2010                                                                       8.10
                          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
 10     05/07/2010     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             9.26
 11     02/14/2011     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            18.13
 12     08/02/2011         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   18.13
 13     03/29/2012     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            24.03
 14     11/17/2012     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            30.03

                                                 v
 15    06/26/2013   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           32.03
 16    02/18/2014   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                  44.53
 17    07/09/2014   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           44.53


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The extension was necessary to
                                                     allow the implementing agency
                                                     to complete the project and the
                                                     loan to be fully disbursed so as
                                                     to achieve development
                                                     objectives by the end of the
 05/06/2010       N       MU    MU            9.26   extension period. Delays as well
                                                     as external factors impacting the
                                                     decentralization process (such
                                                     as alternate funding sources,
                                                     and saturated construction
                                                     industry market) impacted the
                                                     project implementation.
                                                     The objective of restructuring
                                                     was to introduce several
                                                     modifications to project design
                                                     that will help speed up
                                                     implementation, make sure that
                                                     project completion can be
 06/10/2010               MS    MS            9.26   achieved within the extended
                                                     period, and update the results´
                                                     framework. Target values of all
                                                     intermediate outcome indicators
                                                     were adjusted. Also, the target
                                                     value of one PDO indicator was
                                                     reduced.
                                                     The purpose for this last
                                                     restructuring was to propose an
                                                     extension of the Loan closing
                                                     date, from December 31, 2013,
                                                     to June 30, 2014, for a
 12/18/2013               MS    MS           44.53   cumulative amount of 48
                                                     months. This proposed
                                                     extension supported the
                                                     completion of the projects
                                                     activities, particularly the road
                                                     rehabilitation contracts and new

                                          vi
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     project preparation.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the time of appraisal in 2004, the Government of Peru (GOP) had been engaged in
implementing an ambitious decentralization agenda (for about three years), effectively
transferring responsibilities to regional and local levels1. In addition fiscal transfers had also been
increasing but at the time, the majority of the resources were dedicated to current expenditures
(mostly payrolls) thus limiting the amounts available for investments. Nevertheless, building
upon international evidence and the GOPs own experience with local roads, the GOP prioritized
the roads sector (along with health) as important elements to underpin growth and formalized the
participation of regional and local stakeholders in the management of public resources and the
selection of public investments.

The GOP aimed to increase competitiveness of Peru’s regions through decentralization and in so
doing allow sustainable development by promoting public and private investments, job creation,
full rights and access to equal opportunities for regional populations. At the regional level,
Participatory Regional Development Plans defined the strategy to strengthen the competitiveness
of regions and integrate markets across neighboring departments through investing in roads and
improving road sector management. The challenge at the time of appraisal was to strengthen the
capacity of regional governments to efficiently manage the secondary road network, building on
the successful experience from rural roads previously implemented with WB (and IDB)
financing2.

The road sector at the regional level was in a state of confusion given the disappearance of
former de-concentrated regional entities and transfer of responsibility for regional road networks
from the central Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) to regional governments.
Responsibilities on transport matters-regulation, traffic safety, road asset management-at the
regional level were split between smaller Regional Infrastructure Management Units (RIMU)
under Regional Governments, and larger Regional Road Directorates (RRD) reporting to the
MTC. At the time, in addition to the aforementioned entities, the MTC’s own Provias
Departamental, was also executing works-largely by force account-on the regional road network.

At the time of appraisal the regional road network consisted of 14,300km, the majority of which
was in poor condition –only 3,000km was in regular or good condition- the remaining 80% was
in need of rehabilitation or improvement. The strategy envisioned at the time was to address four
main issues: (1) poor road conditions (2) insufficient financial capacity (3) low institutional
capacity (4) lack of clarity in terms of institutional responsibilities at both the regional and
central levels in the new context of decentralization. Embedded in the strategy was the decision
to achieve higher levels of efficiency through outsourcing and use of private sector (contractors,
microenterprises) while reducing the reliance on and use of force account operations. The project


1
  At the subnational level, Peru is divided into regions responsible for departmental roads (caminos departamentales) and provinces and
municipalities responsible for local/rural roads (caminos vecinales).
2
  Peru Rural Roads Project (Proyecto Caminos Rurales - PCR); Peru 2nd Rural Roads Project (Proyecto Caminos Rurales 2 – PCR2)

                                                                       1
was thus designed to contribute to implement the GOP’s strategy through the combination of
investments and technical assistance, which would not have taken place in the absence of the
project.

Because of the already well-established and highly successful partnership of the GOP and the
Bank in the road sector, the GOP viewed the WB as a source of analytical knowledge known to
highlight sustainable and sound asset management principles. This partnership contributed to
create a rural roads program, which was successfully implemented over the span of the preceding
decade, with a third iteration (PTRD) implemented in parallel to PCD, and rated highly
satisfactory in its ICR upon completion. In addition the WB was viewed as having the convening
authority to engage various key actors within the context of the ambitious reform agenda that
was expected during project implementation. The project was designed and implemented as a
joint operation with co-financing from the IDB.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objective is to improve - through decentralization at the regional level -
the prioritization, efficiency and effectiveness of regional transport interventions and, hence,
their contribution to regional development and poverty alleviation by enhancing transport
conditions in the Borrower’s territory (Peru).

The project outcomes are: (i) increase in the use of regional transport infrastructure as measured
by decreased transport tariffs along upgraded regional roads; and (ii) increase in the quality of
regional transport infrastructure as measured by % of the secondary network in good conditions.
(See Datasheet for intermediate outcome indicators).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. The target for the second PDO indicator “increase in the quality of
regional transport infrastructure as measured by % of the secondary network in good conditions ”
was reduced from 35% to 17% in a level two corrective restructuring approved by World Bank
management on 7/23/2010 following a mid-term review, to reflect more realistic civil works
targets following the delays experienced initiating the project, as well as increased construction
costs and reclassification of roads as challenges in implementation 3 . Due to reclassification
(determined by GOP) of roads, the original regional road network length increased from
14,270km at appraisal to 23,740 km. With new network length, the new baseline became 9%.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The Participatory Regional Road Plans indicate the beneficiary population, defined as those
living within 5km of the project roads. An ex-post analysis performed after project closing found



3
    Some intermediate outcome indicators were also revised (see Section F of the Datasheet).



                                                                         2
that approximately 1.226 million persons have benefitted from PCD. In addition, the investments
are expected to have benefitted inter-regional road users other than the local ones as the
investments aim to integrate markets. Additionally the project directly benefitted those agencies
responsible for regional road asset management both at the national and regional level thus
creating efficiencies in resource allocations that would benefit the general population.

1.5 Original Components
The PAD presented five components, each expected to move at a different pace depending on the
participating region.

Component 1: Preparation of participatory regional road planning (estimated cost US$10.9
million of which US$5.45 million would be financed by the Bank Loan). This component would
finance the preparation of Participatory Regional Road plans—aligned with the existing
Regional Development Plans—and elaborate a diagnosis of the sector in a particular region,
analyze the supply and demand for transport services and infrastructure, and prioritize and
evaluate road investment options, towards identifying the sub-project priorities that could be
funded under the project (sub-component 1-A). A prioritizing methodology, 4 including a
combination of both economic potential and poverty level criteria, was prepared as part of
project preparation, with due attention to environmental and social issues. The preparation of
these plans would be handled by the planning units of the regional governments, with the
technical assistance of consultants. Provias Departamental would facilitate the process (eg.
organize coordination events) and monitor the preparation of the plans. Ultimately, plans would
have to be formally approved by the regional council or by a competent commission of the
regional government. This component would help finalize plans in every eligible region 5, by
financing the related costs (organization of participatory planning, training of the planning units,
dissemination and coordination costs, updating or revision of certain plans). It would also
finance the various feasibility and technical studies (sub-component 1-B) for the road segments
prioritized through participatory planning.

Component 2: Upgrading of regional roads (estimated cost US$138.83 million of which
US$34.71 million would be financed by the Bank Loan). The objective of this component was to
rehabilitate about 2,200 km of regional roads prioritized through participatory planning (under
component 1) and to perform the periodic maintenance of 2,706 km of regional roads
rehabilitated by another agency of MTC (Provias Rural) and transferred to regional governments.
Some regional roads which that had been rehabilitated early on were also in need of periodic
maintenance before the end of the project and such activities would also be eligible under this
component. About a third of the secondary network would be upgraded as a result of this
component and the ultimate development impact was expected to be high since the road
segments to be upgraded would be selected according to their relevance for regional
development. Regional governments would contract private enterprises to perform the
rehabilitation works and engineering consultants to carry out the relevant supervision, with the
technical support and oversight of the PVD. The related upgrading tasks would contribute to
skilled and unskilled employment generation in the regions. None of the works to be undertaken

4
 Metodología para la formulación, evaluación y actualización de los planes viales participativos.
5
 Eligibility was determined by the signing of ‘Convenios’ which implied, an institutional agreement; and a financing agreement , stipulating the
conditions of participation in PCD

                                                                        3
under this component were expected to require resettlement or imply major impacts to the
natural environment.

Component 3: Routine maintenance of regional roads (estimated cost US$26.12 million of
which US$3.39 million would be financed by the Bank Loan). This component would finance the
routine maintenance - and the related supervision - of the 4,900 km of regional roads
rehabilitated (or having received periodic maintenance) under the previous component. In
addition, it would finance specific road maintenance interventions (annual mechanized
maintenance also called perfilado in Spanish) performed once a year right after the rainy season.
Building on the successful experience of the Rural Roads projects I and II, maintenance would
be performed by mechanisms similar to the micro-enterprise model. The perfilados could be
performed under force-account but the amount to be reimbursed by the project would be fixed
per kilometer (about US$600 per km and per year plus inflation) and subject to a maximum of
US$8.8 million. The activities were expected to generate unskilled employment opportunities
that could benefit the rural poor. Particular attention would be paid to ensuring the sustainability
of the model (i.e., that sufficient funding was dedicated by regional governments to maintenance
and that micro-enterprises were adequately contracted to perform such maintenance). The
activities would follow environmentally sensitive approaches, following current practices in Peru
and other Latin American countries. This component would benefit from the experience of the
2,706 km of roads transferred by Provias Rural (all of them were at the time already being
maintained by micro-enterprises).

Component 4: Institutional capacity building (estimated cost US$17.14 million of which
US$5.95 million would be financed by the Bank Loan). This component—to be managed
centrally by PVD—aimed to provide the technical assistance needed to upgrade regional
governments’ institutional capacity and would be built upon comprehensive institutional
assessments performed during project preparation (as part of project preparation, comprehensive
institutional assessments had been prepared in 8 “fast track” regions.). Activities under this
component included: (a) the rationalization of the current institutional framework and in
particular the restructuring (possibly merging) of the RRDs (formerly with the Ministry of
Transportation and Communication) and the RIMUs, newly-created as part of the organizational
structure of the regional governments; (b) supporting a transition from direct administration of
road maintenance/rehabilitation to contracting it to the private sector; (c) training in safeguards
management; (d) clarification and assignment of regulatory responsibilities (for instance those
related to the regulation of transport services and to road safety); (e) actions for the restructuring
of the PVD; 6 and (f) monitoring, auditing and evaluation. Resources (up to a total of
US$200,000) had been allocated as well for possible studies related to the management of the
regional road network in the context of national transport policies and programs, complementing
other existing resources that focus on overall transport policy formulation. 7 Eligible
expenditures for this component would include technical assistance, studies and evaluations, as
well as training, dissemination and coordination costs. This component would include two




6
    The component would help design and implement the restructuring process of PVD which had been agreed upon at negotiations.
7
    For example, IDB resources within its Third National Road Project.

                                                                         4
different types of activities: sub-component 4-A (institutional strengthening of regional
governments) and sub-component 4-B (institutional strengthening of PVD).

Component 5: Project administration (estimated cost US$6 million to be financed exclusively
from national counterpart funds). The costs related to project administration by PVD would fall
under this component.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised but final component costs changed at closing (see Annex 1).

1.7 Other significant changes

Because of the substantial delays experienced in project implementation, which are discussed in
detail in Section 2 below, there were two loan amendments and three formal extensions of the
loan closing dates. The level two corrective restructuring approved by World Bank management
on June 10, 2010 centered on the reallocation between categories including revision of
disbursement percentages mainly to allow for higher loan financing of works, a revision of
indicators consistent with revised schedules, size and costs of civil works, and loan closing
extensions to allow for project implementation and completion. The targets for the indicators
were reduced to reflect increased unit costs for road works, due to the saturation of the supply
market (materials, machinery and qualified labor force) and the construction boom (see annex 2).

The first loan closing extension was from June 30, 2010 to June 30, 2012, when the project, that
became effective on April 2006, had only disbursed 19% of loan funds. At that time, the project
had already suffered significant delays, with Board Approval on July 12, 2005 and a nine months
delay to effectiveness, on April 10, 2006. The second extension was from June 30, 2012 to
December 31, 2013, when the project had disbursed 48% of loan funds. Conditions for closing
date extension were linked to generating a pipeline of road works that would secure a sound
disbursement profile for the extension period. The third and final extension was from December
31, 2013 to June 30, 2014, when the project had disbursed 89%. This six-month extension was to
allow the support for initial preparation activities for a proposed new Subnational Transport
Support Project (PATS) and complete ongoing works as well as carry out some technical training
courses.

Despite the extensions, the project was unable to fully disburse, as some of the works were still
ongoing beyond the project closing8. As a result, during the last six months of implementation
the implementing agency requested the cancellation of US$5.47million (10% of original loan
amount), and refunded US$2.93million at the end of the grace period.




8
    Ongoing works beyond project closing were financed with local resources and with the IDB whose loan closing was later in 2014.



                                                                        5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project quality at entry was moderately satisfactory for the following reasons:

Soundness of the Background Analysis: The project was fully in line with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS). The background analysis that supported the project design was sound as it was
fully aligned with the main pillars of the 2002 (for the period 2003-2006) CAS which was
organized around three central objectives: (i) competitiveness and employment generation; (ii)
equity and social justice, including access to health, education, culture and basic services; and
(iii) institutionality, creating an efficient, transparent and decentralized state.

The project preparation and design benefitted from lessons learned in Peru as well as
international experience on efficiency gains in road sector performance through the use of
private contractors as well as micro-enterprises. Key elements of the project built upon a
participatory approach, phased and gradual approach to decentralization, and contribution of
roads to the competitiveness agenda – selection of those territories and investment alternatives to
maximize economic potential criteria (such as agriculture, mining, tourism etc)

Adequacy of Government Commitment: The project enjoyed the strong support of the GOP, as
transport was high among the prioritized sectors in which to advance the overall national
decentralization agenda. The MTC, Ministry of Finance, and the Council of Ministers (through a
representative) were actively involved in project preparation and their continued participation as
overseers of the project was included as a condition for effectiveness. At the regional level the
original reception was positive mainly because the subsequent dramatic increase in the country’s
economic growth was incipient and the prospect of fresh funds from the loan for road
investments was attractive.

Assessment of Risks: The overall risk for the project was “Modest/Substantial9”.

The risk of weakening of decentralization reforms was identified as “Modest”, and this risk
turned out to be low, as decentralization remained a top priority for GOP and enabled the
implementation of the program through adequate fiscal transfers to regional governments

The risk of insufficient counterpart funds was rated as “Substantial” and this turned out to be low
given the continued allocation of counterpart funds in participating regions. On the other hand,
an unforeseen risk, resulting in the availability of alternative resources challenged the project
throughout implementation. In the end, both financiers cancelled funds, and in the case of the
WB, a refund10 was received, for works contracts that went beyond the eligibility period (June
2014). Those works were nevertheless implemented with local resources, contributing to
improve the regional road network.



9
    The ISR quotes the ratings terminology in use at the time of appraisal and as indicated in the PAD
10
     Refund of 2.93 million in October 2014

                                                                          6
The PAD identified as “Modest/Substantial” the risk that PVD would resist the restructuring and
perform activities in conflict with decentralization. This risk turned out to be low during
implementation. Indeed PVD has phased out the use of force account and been active in
strengthening regional government capacity for road management.

The PAD appropriately identified as “Substantial” the risk that regional governments would not
have sufficient capacity to assume road management responsibilities. This risk was mitigated by
intense training by the implementing agency (PVD).

Assessment of the Project Design: While the project including its PDO was overall well designed,
the expectations for the project were optimistic and ambitious, and could have been clearer, in
particular with respect to efficiency. The PDO also includes higher level contributions to
regional development and poverty reduction, which are difficult to attribute to a project of this
nature. Project design relied heavily on the successful experience of the Bank with the rural road
projects and expected a replication of that success at the regional level in a short period of time.
However, project design overlooked the fact that the rural roads projects were initially
implemented centrally by PVD. Only after at least 10 years and under the third iteration of the
project the responsibility for implementation was transferred to the local governments. On the
other hand the regional roads project expected the successful and rapid implementation of the
civil works in a decentralized manner with regional governments unfamiliar with the Bank’s
requirements.

Finally, and with the benefit of hindsight, the choices offered by the project both in terms of the
type of road works interventions (gravel), and the mode of incorporating the private sector in
routine road maintenance turned out not to be the preferred choice in the regions. In both cases,
project design was based on solid foundations (i.e. discouraging overinvestment and replicating a
model of micro-enterprises with a proven record of success in Peru and other Latin American
countries). However, regional governments, as discussed later in the report, were not too keen to
adopt micro-enterprises and were reluctant in many cases to adopt the gravel option for road
works that was favored by the project. Furthermore, in rural roads projects the civil society and
local population were stakeholders directly involved and to whom the benefits of rural roads
interventions were directly visible at the household level, while in the case of regional projects
the roads are further removed from the intended labor pool of microenterprise workers. In this
sense the project seemed to offer predetermined solutions without allowing for the possibility to
tailor different schemes (such as lower cost paving or surface sealing options, for example
instead of gravel) to address regional needs, where other alternatives may have proved more
relevant. The project design affected the end results; since all the components were not fully
implemented thus the targets were not fully met.

2.2 Implementation

(a) Civil works

The project experienced serious delays almost from the start. Effectiveness took place nine
months after board approval, due to internal discussions in the Peruvian administration regarding
securing counterpart funds from regional governments. Almost immediately, the 2006 elections
brought changes in regional government administrations including a big loss of trained
                                                 7
operational staff, an experience that was repeated with the 2010 elections. These changes
required rebuilding interest, ownership and commitment with the new regional government
administrations. At the same time, the project faced challenges due to originally unexpected
competing alternative and many times more attractive funding sources, which effectively
functioned as a disincentive limiting participation of several regions. By the time of the mid-term
review only 11% of the loan was disbursed. Several mitigating measures, such as intense
supervision, refocusing the project on 17 out of 22 regions, increased training, and in limited
cases, partial recentralized contract administration, were adopted. By the time of the second
extension of the loan closing date (from June 2012 to December 2013) only about half of the
loan was disbursed. In the last six months of implementation US5.47 (10%) of the loan was
cancelled, and another US$2.93million refunded at the end of the grace period. By the loan
closing date, however, the project had substantially achieved most of its physical targets, by at
least 80%. However, the project only marginally implemented the institutional strengthening
activities. The following paragraphs discuss the main reasons for the slow rate of project
implementation.

   High rotation of technical staff both at PVD and the regional governments. In addition to the
    election of government officials (which required the resignation of the regional president six
    months prior to elections to compete for re-election) and that was followed by almost a
    complete change of technical staff, both at the central and regional levels there was a high
    rotation of professional and skilled labor due to the dramatic growth of the Peruvian
    economy. Professionals left the public sector for more attractive positions in the private
    sector and a boom in construction increased the demand of skilled workers that also joined
    private construction companies.

   Substantial increase of alternative funding. The project was implemented under a
    macroeconomic framework completely different from the one at the time of conception. The
    improvement in Peru’s fiscal and financial situations lifted the budgetary restrictions existing
    during project preparation and resulted in increased transfers to the sub-national
    governments. In particular, a group of the regions benefitted from royalties from the mining
    sector, which represented a sizeable addition to their budgets. Thus, the project lost its initial
    appeal, particularly for the more affluent regions.

   Institutional changes during the initial period of project implementation. During the first two
    years of project implementation PVD was undergoing a process of restructuring that also
    negatively affected the pace of project implementation. In 2007 PROVIAS Rural and
    PROVIAS Departamental were joined in a single entity in charge of promoting the programs
    addressing the decentralization of the road and transport sectors: PROVIAS Decentralizado
    (PVD). In addition (i) MTC centralized sector planning, a decision that affected the
    operative capacity of PVD; and (ii) a much necessary road reclassification modified the
    network under the jurisdiction of the regional governments and made their original plans
    obsolete.

   Institutional weaknesses at the regional level. Lack of technical staff and lack of familiarity
    with the Bank requirements was one of the main issues of project execution. The project
    supervision Aide Memoirs consistently discussed these issues and proposed alternative
    solutions to support the regional staff in contracting consultants for studies and supervision
                                                  8
     and for the bidding process of works. However, little progress was made in this respect
     mainly because of what appears to be a reluctance of the government to spend loan funds on
     consultants to directly support each regional government to advance the project.

    Lengthy procurement processes. Several procurement issues contributed to the slow
     implementation of the project, among which the most common were: (i) very limited
     participation of consultant firms and individual consultants due to the excessive requirements
     for eligibility and/or market limitations; (ii) high rotation of regional government staff who
     participated in the procurement processes, resulting in a learning curve that impacted the
     procurement processes, and (iii) biding processes that end as “non-responsive” (desierto) 11.

    Lack of agreement on technical solutions. Project implementation was by 2007 eventually
     also affected by uncertainties about rehabilitation standards (paved/unpaved). The MTC was
     leaning toward promoting paving through its initiative "Proyecto Perú" and many regional
     governments which have access to relatively abundant budget resources as a result of the
     then new fiscal transfers (canon minero) also wanted to pave roads. However, paving was
     generally not justifiable (and was resisted by MEF for that reason) and was not initially
     considered in the project because it was deemed not economically viable. Eventually it was
     agreed to pilot the use of alternative low cost paving solutions, a task that was carried out
     with the government’s own resources. These pilots, while having little or no impact on the
     technical solutions financed under the project, are being recognized by PVD as an important
     contribution of the dialogue with the Bank, since the provided proof of the viability of a
     range of intermediate interventions involving less than full high cost paving that are more
     suitable for the conditions of many departmental roads in Peru.

    Road reclassification. Some roads were reclassified (from departmental to national) which
     removed these roads from the program, as they were included in a national road conservation
     program “Proyecto Perú” which included five-year contracts for low cost paving and
     maintenance in a “CREMA” like approach. At the same time, on the other hand, there were
     lower level roads reclassified from rural to departmental, which were then included as roads
     receiving periodic maintenance, in this way contributing to the higher target achieved, along
     with the solid support provided from PVD to the regional governments in the form of a
     standardized bidding document (expedientes técnicos).

(b) Institutional development

The institutional strengthening activities were launched only as project closing approached. In
addition to the already discussed difficulties of working with the regional governments, the
institutional strengthening activities have been historically slow on the uptake. The majority of
the efforts were a series of workshops and training events, mainly geared to increasing regional



11
  Many of the bids were declared non-responsive because the price of the lowest evaluated winning bid was substantially higher than the
Borrower’s updated estimated cost or available budget, or no bidder met the specified qualification crit eria and the exercise had to be repeated
adding costs and efforts to the procurement process. The lengthy procurement processes were exacerbated by a saturated market due to the
construction boom, such that many processes were declared non-responsive (desierto) and re-bid due to lack of bids.



                                                                         9
governments' capacity to carry out works following WB procurement and safeguards policies.
The high rotation of staff at the regional level resulted in duplication of training efforts multiple
times.

Overall, the Project was generally implemented with difficulty, yet at the same time benefitted
from implementing agency staff familiar with the financial institutions having successfully
implemented a series of rural roads projects and largely achieved most of its physical targets.
While the design was based on sound technical, economic and social principles (participatory
planning), the project could not have foreseen the impact of exogenous factors, which affected
the project and caused significant delays at project start, and continued to plague the project
throughout implementation.

In conclusion, project implementation, including compliance with Loan covenants, was
Moderately Satisfactory. Implementation was rated Moderately Satisfactory in most of the
Implementation Status Reports. However, implementation was downgraded to Moderately
Unsatisfactory following the mid-term review due to failure to achieve agreed targets and little
progress on the project restructuring discussed at mid-term.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design: The PAD outlined a Results framework, which proved to be valuable in guiding
the project monitoring and evaluation activities during implementation. A series of indicators
were monitored regularly. Two outcome indicators were chosen: (i) the improvement in the
quality of the regional road network, and (ii) a reduction in transport tariffs. The former is a
measurable and reliable source while the latter was not explicitly or adequately described.
Furthermore, given the wide territorial dispersion of the project the tariffs proved difficult to
measure and thus difficult to attribute any changes, whether increases or decreases, directly to
the project.

On the institutional front, the percentage of institutional agreements “successfully implemented”
by regional governments did not seem a particularly useful indicator, as this seems to have been
linked to the signing of memoranda of understanding (convenios) between the PVD and each
regional government to allow for participation12. In other words, the signing of these institutional
agreements served to measure operational milestones that needed to be achieved in order to
implement the project, but did not serve to measure institutional development in a meaningful
manner. As it is the only indicator proposed on institutional matters, the project M&E design, for
a project whose ambitions were largely institutional gains, it falls short on value and does not
allow for a reflection on institutional gains.

M&E Implementation: Building upon the experience of the rural roads projects, the
implementing agency carried out regular monitoring and reporting of project progress, including
adequate coverage of fiduciary and safeguards aspects, with regular technical assistance and


12
  The convenios included a financing agreement to receive funds from PCD and allocate local resources; agreement to carry out an initial
institutional diagnostic.



                                                                      10
intense training of regional government counterparts. At the same time regular fiduciary audits
were carried out which found that the project complied with all fiduciary and reporting
requirements. Some other M&E techniques were proposed in the PAD but many of these
activities did not materialize (participatory evaluation exercises, impact assessment studies by
independent firms and specialized NGOs, and participatory events involving high level
representatives from regional governments). Overall, the PAD intended M&E system was only
marginally implemented, and was perhaps too ambitious in hindsight given the challenges
experienced during implementation. Although a full impact assessment was not carried out, a
beneficiary survey was performed in August 2014 and confirmed the merits of the project.

M&E Utilization: During implementation, particularly following the “inflection point” achieved
after the mid-term review, the indicators were monitored and reported regularly, except the one
for tariffs. In particular readily available data was utilized as well as the use of quarterly
monitoring targets to advance project implementation. The reporting of implementation progress
on some of the physical achievements and operational milestones achieved was carried out in a
moderately satisfactory manner as the data was routinely collected and monitored regularly.
However the indicators on routine maintenance were reported as cumulative kilometers carried
out instead of annual figures as established. The number of microenterprises is missing several
years of data (between 2009 and 2012) during which period an apparent substantial increase was
achieved as reported in ISRs yet by project closing, the implementing agency was unable to
confirm the higher numbers. More challenged was the case of the more complex and relevant
institutional goals of the project, which did not have adequate indicators and may explain the
lack of progress on institutional aspects: i.e. there were no clearly defined targets or milestones
towards which to direct project implementation efforts and subsequent monitoring.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The Project complied fully with Bank’s safeguards policies requirements at appraisal; however
during implementation the compliance was moderately satisfactory, as reflected in the aide
memoires and ISRs indicating the approved ESMF was not always fully implemented. The
project did not involve major negative social and environmental impacts because it rehabilitated
and maintained existing infrastructure. The regional governments had little exposure to
implementing World Bank financed projects and little familiarity with safeguards approaches. To
mitigate this issue the implementing agency PVD, hired additional social and environmental
consultants to support the regional governments adhere to the requirements. However there were
significant delays in the hiring of these consultants thus for a large portion of the project the
safeguards aspects suffered from lack of adequate coverage. In the early part of implementation,
the project received considerable and helpful support from DGASA 13 the environmental and
social unit within MTC.




13
  During early aide memoires, there is noted collaboration between the implementing agency and DGASA to provide support to regional
governments. However during later phases of the project implementation DGASA was not involved and there were delays in building the
capacity in-house within PVD to properly supervise the environmental and social aspects.



                                                                   11
At appraisal, the Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Report: AC 1413 – publicly disclosed) rated
the PCD Project as Category B – Partial Assessment. The project triggered the following
safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01); Cultural Property (OPN 11.03);
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12); and Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20). In compliance with OP
4.01, an environmental assessment was carried out and publicly disclosed (E1151). In
compliance with OP 4.12, a Resettlement Plan was prepared and publicly disclosed (RP321).
Similarly, in compliance with OD 4.20, an Indigenous People’s Plan was prepared and p ublicly
disclosed (IPP125).

The management of procurement processes by Provias Descentralizado (PVD) was overall
Satisfactory. Seven (7) ex-post procurement reviews were performed by the WB in November
2007, February 2009, May 2010, May 2011, May 2012, January 2013 and March 2014. The ex-
post reports, and the Supervision Mission Aide Memoires included recommendations that helped
improve the management of procurement processes, including: (a) management of the
procurement plan (PP), with a complete systematized information base for follow-up action (the
Project’s PP was approved and administered through SEPA); (b) constant training of
procurement staff implementation, including staff at Regional levels, (c) improvement of filing
and archiving of the procurement documentation.

Key procurement management issues in the operation: During the implementation of the Project,
there were some issues especially during the evaluation of the proposals (for post-review
processes), due to the misinterpretation of the Bank’s Procurement Guidelines by the Project,
and the provision in the Operations Manual (OM) of the Project which allow them to reject bids
because of omissions or mistakes that could be clarified by the bidder. The Bank’s team tried to
minimize those issues through the training 14 to the procurement staff of the Project, but the
criteria15 in the OM and in the Standard Bidding Documents for NCB and Shopping, did not
allow much room for maneuver. It would be advisable to take this background in account for
future operations.

During the last three years of implementation of the project, concerns regarding the submission
of fraudulent documentation in the procurement processes for two road rehabilitation contracts16
were raised. Both allegations were submitted by the PIU, reflecting their notable capacity to
identify and submit red flags of fraud. INT launched two separate investigations and
substantiated both allegations of fraudulent practices. The Project Team also took measures to
immediately address these issues, including enhanced procurement supervision and due diligence
checks.

14
  Due to continuous staff rotation in the Regional Governments, there were issues during bid-evaluation because of lack of experience of the
regional government staff in procurement Bank’s procedures, and/or misinterpretation of WB procurement Guidelines. In this point, the Bank’s
team carried out workshops, jointly with the implementing agency, in order to improve the situation. However, the learning curve caused delay
and/or failed processes
15
  The criteria in the OM included World Bank approved standard bidding documents for NCB and Shopping, which allowed agencies to reject
proposals due to non-substantial mistakes and/or omissions. As these standard bidding documents were approved by the WB and widely used by
the Project, several procurement processes were impacted throughout the project as the majority of the works were bid in this manner, and were
subject to post-review. There was reluctance to change the documents once there was wide familiarity with the documents.

16
  The two contract/tenders in question were (i) Road Rehabilitation, Sector Puente 24 de Julio-Cumba-Ocalli Section II: Portachuelo-
Camporredondo Amazonas and (ii) Rehabilitation of the Road Tingo Maria – Palo de Acero, Tramo: Puente Monzon – Palo de Acero (CI-001-
2010/LNP/GRHCO)

                                                                     12
From the Financial Management perspective, project implementation was challenging,
considering its design involved decentralized funds flows arrangements. The different Regional
Governments had varying levels of capacity and were subjected to high rates of staff turnover,
following elections and subsequent transitions. This required close follow up and ongoing
training from the PVD central office, building fiduciary capacity at the regional level, and close
support from the Bank team, including establishment of standardized processes and procedures
to advance resources and adequately document implementation from regional governments; as
well as strengthening of information systems mechanisms.

Nevertheless, PVD benefited from the use of governmental financial management information
system (SIAF) and complementary information systems. In addition, PVD also relied on
qualified experienced staff and maintained adequate financial management arrangements
throughout the project’s implementation. The overall FM rating was Satisfactory, since financial
management arrangements operated as expected including the timely provision of reliable
information (interim financial reports and audit reports) for project monitoring during project
implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The GOP and the Bank are currently working on the preparation of a roads project focusing on
logistic corridors, that, at the request of the GOP, only involve, rural/local roads within the
jurisdiction of municipal and provincial governments, which have important linkages to strategic
logistics corridors. The logistics corridors as a whole include national roads that are in many
cases linked to local roads through regional roads. To avoid the complications of working with
the many government levels, the GOP has decided that the sections under regional jurisdictions
will be temporarily reclassified as national roads, for intervention by a national entity (Provias
Nacional) and, after the improvements are completed, returned to the regional owners. The local
roads will receive interventions in a decentralized manner, with the PVD providing overall
project oversight and support to the implementing local agencies. The proposed project (PATS) is
expected to include funding for further strengthening of government capacity for road asset
management at both the local and the regional levels.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: High – before and after restructuring.

The development objectives and implementation of the Project contributed to Peru’s Country
Assistance Strategy FY03 – FY06 goal of “strengthening subnational management capacity” by
promoting decentralization reforms in the sector at the regional level; contributing to
strengthening capacity of regional governments to carry out road asset management including
participatory planning; and contributing to strengthening financial management at the regional
level following fiscal transfers from MEF. They were also highly relevant to the priorities of the
GoP, contributing to all four of the Strategic Objectives of Peru’s Country Partnership Strategy
FY12 – FY16. In particular, it contributed to providing “better transport and infrastructure to
reduce inequality” by providing linkages between national roads and rural roads within the
                                                 13
poorest areas of the country and promoting the employment of women through the
microenterprise programs.

The design (which remained unchanged after the 2010 restructuring) remained highly relevant
for achieving the PDO as the components linked directly to the objectives, with intermediate
outcomes to support the achievement of the outcomes, with the exception, as discussed in this
ICR, on the expected institutional evolution.

During implementation, the restructuring included re-allocation of loan funds in order to respond
to changed circumstances, including increased costs, and a focus on fewer regions in order to
maintain the high relevance of the project which received full support from the implementing
agency and national government confirming the projects high relevance.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Modest before restructuring and Substantial after restructuring.

The project development objective 17 was to improve through decentralization at the regional
level the (i) prioritization; (ii) efficiency; and (iii) effectiveness, of regional transport
interventions so as to (iv) contribute to regional development and poverty alleviation by
enhancing transport conditions in Peru. The performance of the project in these areas in relation
to the ambitions described in the PAD and to the revised targets is summarized below (also refer
to Annex 2 and Datasheet):

                                 actual value                                            % achieved of
                    revised      achieved by        % achieved of          original      original
 baseline           target       closing            Revised target         target        target
                                            PDO Indicators
                                       1. reduced transport tariffs
           n/a              n/a                n/a                   n/a            10%         No data
                        2. increase Quality of regional transport infrastructure*
           9%             17%                16%                    94%             35%            46%
 *new Baseline due to network increase to 23740km
                                   intermediate outcome indicators
 1. number of participatory regional road plans
             8              24                 24                 100%                20          120%
 2. number km rehabilitated
             0           1781                1562                   88%            2200            71%
 3. number km periodic maintenance
             0           2202                3541                 161%             2700           131%
 4. number km routine maintenance


17The PDO provided in the ICR matches the PDO in the Legal Agreement, which differs slightly from the PDO in the PAD as
the latter does not include the text “by enhancing transport conditions in the Borrower’s territory”.


                                                           14
                                actual value                                   % achieved of
              revised           achieved by      % achieved of    original     original
baseline      target            closing          Revised target   target       target
         2706           4219               2570               61%         4900           52%
5. number microenterprises
           100           169                 110              65%          180           61%
6. percent government institutional agreements
           0%           71%                71%               100%        100%         71.00%


     prioritization: better aligning transport investments to local needs as identified by
      participatory regional development plans and appropriate planning and evaluation tools.
      High before and after restructuring. The project did result in all regional governments
      having in place a participatory plan, as initially designed and defined in the project
      (100% achieved). While this is a major step in the right direction, further improvements
      in planning are necessary. In particular, the level of participation should be improved by
      encouraging the involvement of representatives of the districts within the region. In many
      cases, their presence was prevented from lack of funds for their mobilization. Anecdotal
      evidence from the institutional workshop held after project closing also indicates that the
      planning process was at times not as participatory as originally envisioned in some of the
      regions. In terms of the evaluation tools, the project fell short as the tools envisioned in
      the PAD, including allowance for participation of citizen groups did not materialize as
      originally intended.
     efficiency: strengthening the institutional framework in order to achieve the appropriate
      management of transport interventions at the regional level, with due consideration to
      environmental and social issues, including issues related to the Indigenous Peoples of
      Peru. Modest before and after restructuring. Many of the regional governments are able
      to independently carry out road asset management. The environmental and social issues
      continue to require strengthening. The Project enabled capacity building of PVD staff to
      increase managerial and technical capacity, as well as adoption of related tools to
      improve their effectiveness. The Project also contributed in the form of extensive
      technical assistance from PVD to regional governments. With regards to the established
      indicator, the revised target was achieved (100%) as the 17 regions did sign their
      institutional agreements. Furthermore, the project enabled for example the preparation of
      standard technical documents for carrying out periodic maintenance, and trained regional
      staff resulting in full decentralization of periodic maintenance. At the end, the strong
      commitment was demonstrated in the over-achievement of the revised target on periodic
      maintenance.
     effectiveness: upgrading the quality of regional transport infrastructures and developing
      sustainable maintenance mechanisms to improve regional mobility which can ultimately
      foster growth and reduce poverty. Modest before and Substantial after restructuring The
      revised targets were substantially achieved on rehabilitation (1562 km, 88%), exceeded
      substantially for periodic maintenance (3541 km, 161%). The maintenance component
      suffered considering the average number of km receiving maintenance was about
      2570km per year between 2007-2013 (61% of revised target), which is lower than the

                                              15
           baseline. The microenterprise component was not effective for regional roads as only
           14% 18 of the revised target was achieved. Despite the overall challenges, the
           implementing agency has carried out extraordinary efforts to ensure the upstream
           participatory planning process was achieved in all regions, in order to inform the
           subsequent investments to improve the quality of the road infrastructure, as well as secure
           financing to ensure maintenance mechanisms are applied beyond the project. These
           efforts have yielded results and formalized the allocations for maintenance in all regions.
           However this has not yet been applied in a sustainable manner as it requires annual
           negotiations which results in spotty maintenance. However, one outcome of the steadfast
           training and intense hand holding is that the regional governments are also able to
           independently carry out periodic and routine maintenance works with contracts to the
           private sector; subject to funds being made available.
Regional development and poverty alleviation: through an increase of the secondary network in
good condition and decrease in transport costs along upgraded regional roads. It has been
difficult to measure and directly attribute any impact of the project on poverty reduction.
Nevertheless as the country enjoyed remarkable economic growth in the decade of project
implementation the projects in a general manner, due to known linkages of transport
interventions contributing to economic development, can be said to have contributed in a general
manner to poverty alleviation. Nevertheless the project contributed to job creation in the regions
through the works contracts (9687 jobs), as well as through the microenterprises (967 jobs),
resulting in over ten thousand new jobs (10654) at the regional level. As no impact evaluation
was carried out, no impacts were determined that could be directly attributed to the project that
contributed to regional development. However the beneficiary perception surveys serve as a
basis to infer the contribution of the roads to regional development. Given that the quality of the
roads increased in quite a small percentage of the network, the project may be considered to have
somewhat contributed to regional development, even without a quantifiable measured indicator.

The Project was able to largely achieve many of the output targets as detailed in the Results
Framework Analysis, thus ensuring a substantial increase in the level of serviceability of the
departmental road network The institutional aspects were less successful and implemented with
some difficulty and challenges given the high rotation of regional government staff. At the
central level, PVD did achieve early gains on institutional performance (use of force account,
merger of the former rural and departmental entities). However, some of the ambitious reforms
envisioned did not take place. In most of the Implementation Status Reports, the achievement of
the Project toward its PDO was rated as Moderately Satisfactory, reflecting the modest progress
achieved and targets met despite the difficulties experienced throughout implementation.




18
  The project maintained up to 110 microenterprises reflecting a 65% achievement of the revised target, over the life of the project. However, as
only 10 microenterprises were created, this represents a 14% gain with respect to the intended target.



                                                                       16
3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Modest before and after restructuring.

At appraisal a cost-benefit analysis (CBA) of a tentative mix of roads (including eight segments
for which designs were well advanced) was carried out using the Road Economic Decision
Model (RED) developed by the World Bank for the economic evaluation of investments and
maintenance alternatives for low-volume roads. The RED model adopts the consumer surplus
approach to estimate project benefits that are comprised of road user costs (vehicle operating
costs, passenger time costs and accident costs) savings, which are estimated using road user costs
relationships from the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4). The evaluation
was performed for an analysis period of 15 years and adopted a discount rate of 14percent, which
is the standard discount rate adopted in Peru since 2000. In all cases the assumptions included
roads with traffic volumes above 50 vehicles per day (vpd). Roads classified are very low
volume roads (less than 40 vpd) were evaluated using a Cost Efficiency Analysis (CEA) that
estimates the total investment costs per beneficiary. This method was more appropriate for these
roads because the benefits of rehabilitating them are generally harder to quantify as they are
derived from providing a basic level of accessibility for previously isolated communities. In all
cases, investments were estimated to have ERRs in the order of 25%, and in the case of very low
volume roads, a cost of less than US$100 per person.

An ex-post economic evaluation was performed to determine the economic efficiency of the
investments of the Project19. This analysis followed the approach used for the ex-ante evaluation,
but with actual data on costs and impacts. The methodology of the ex-post analysis differed from
that of the ex-ante analysis in two key way: (1) all of the rehabilitations in the Project were made
to the same specification, while the ex-ante evaluation had assumed that there would be multiple
rehabilitation alternatives; and (2) roads were classified differently in the ex-post analysis to
provide results with a higher degree of granularity. The results of the ex-post evaluation show
that the project, on the average, has an expected ERR of about 19%. In general, works on roads
with traffic volumes above 100 vpd (about 60% of the works both in physical and financial
terms) showed estimated ERRs well above appraisal while the lower traffic roads, because of the
adjustments in methodology, proved to have lower ERRs although important social benefits.

The project as a whole was moderately efficient. The results of the ex-post economic analysis
show that for very low volume roads the choice of intervention could be largely driven by social
benefits rather than calculated economic rate of return, as the social implications could be far
outweighed than could be represented by a numerical value. This leads to the conclusion that
future roads projects with very low traffic volumes should incorporate the flexibility to allow for
a menu of intervention types that could be applied depending on local conditions. Road
engineering solutions need to be better designed, either having lower costs or reaching more
beneficiaries, to be part of investment programs with favorable economic rates of return. Further
details can be found in Annex 3 or the full report in the Project Files.



19
     Further details of this summary included in Annex 3, while the full report is in project files



                                                                            17
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall outcome ratings is Moderately Satisfactory (MS) based on the Moderately
Unsatisfactory (MU) rating before restructuring and the MS rating of the overall outcome after
restructuring weighted with the disbursement before restructuring and at the end of the project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Transport has been shown to have major positive effects on development and poverty reduction
strategies. The project contributed, along with other exogenous factors, to reducing poverty at the
regional level. The direct contribution of the project was not estimated nevertheless for example
the creation of 10654 jobs contributed in a significant manner to household income for the
families benefitting.

Given the extraordinary achievements on gender on institutional matters within the context of the
PTRD, some lessons were extracted and recommendations shared with regional governments
within a framework proposed to strengthen mainstreaming gender in regional roads programs.
This initiative was carried out within the last months of project implementation by a consultant
hired with PCD resources. In effect, this effort serves as an important basis for further work in
the area, which regional governments are enthusiastic to pursue; however, for its sustainability,
more resources and technical assistance will be needed. To note, within the PCD, out of 967
microenterprise jobs created, 20% went to women.

While gender was not an explicit focus area for PCD, the implementing agency took some
proactive initiative to carry out a consultancy on the topic which serves to inform further
programs such as PATS. The full report is included in project files, while highlights from a
workshop carried out are included in the box below. Even if there were no major activities on
gender in PCD, one should not underestimate the lessons and recommendations derived from
PTRD, through the final consultancy and which could contribute at one point to mainstream
gender in road management. However, there are still some challenges that need to be addressed
to spill over these positive results at the regional level. For instance, to guarantee the
sustainability of gender inclusion in road management, it will be necessary to foster participatory
processes that involve public servants at the regional level to develop their own Gender Plans.
More commitment is necessary from other entities of the public administration such as the
Ministry of Economics and Finance. Gender inequalities within the teams that constitute regional
directions and management structures need to be resolved as, for example, there is still a 28%
gap in the wage between men and women.20




20   Zapata, Op. Cit., 2014, pp 18-21.



                                                18
1. Box 1. Taller Unificado de Género en la Gestión Vial (Unified Gender Road Management
   Workshop): good practice that involved the regional governments in the definition of gender
   actions.
        Design of a Gender Plan for Gender Road Management. This was developed in this
         Workshop in Lima during March 2014 with the participation of public servants from 9
         Regional governments (Ancash, Apurimac, Ayacucho, Cajamarca, Cusco, Huancavelica,
         Lambayeque, Puno y San Martin).
        Identification and selection of gender indicators for road interventions of regional
         governments. With the regional governments, eight indicators, aligned with the ones for
         the follow up of the Gender Plan 2012-2017, were agreed
        Application of a Gender Training Program for the public servants of Regional and Local
         Governments, which had as a starting point the training modules validated in PTRD. This
         training program was developed during the Taller. In total, 22 persons participated, and
         27% were women and 73% men. People came from Lima, 9 regional governments, 3
         provincial municipalities and 12 Provincial Road Institutes. Its modules were adapted by
         the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru.
        Design of instruments for gender baseline data collection. From the Workshop three
         instruments for gender data collection were approved: a) survey on gender perspective
         for high level managers from PVD, b) survey on gender perspective for the Infrastructure
         Management and Transport Regional Government Direction, and c) survey on gender
         perspective for Provincial Road Institutes.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The considerable strengthening of the country’s institutional framework of the road sector that
took part between 2005 and 2010 can be to a certain extent attributed to the very rich and
productive dialogue between the GOP and the Bank of which the subject project is only one
element. These changes, although encouraged under the project, were carried out without loan
financing or Bank participation. In particular:

At the start of the project the main institutions of the sector, both at the central and regional
levels were in a state of flux, with PVD divided into Provias Departamental and Provias Rural
divisions and performing a substantial amount of force account works. The fusion of Provias
Departamental and Provias Rural, which in itself caused an upheaval that added to the delays in
project implementation, constitutes a substantial step towards the consolidating of PVD as the
premier entity focusing on technical support for the decentralization of the road sector. To that
end, PVD stopped all involvement on civil works and distributed its road equipment among the
regional governments. The originally expected role of PVD not only as a normative but also a
regulatory agency did not materialize, as those functions have been assigned to the Directorate
General of Roads (DGR) within the Ministry of Transport. The DGR is now in charge of
developing and overseeing the compliance with road infrastructure norms; developing safety
norms for design, signaling (type, materials, retroflectivity) and preparing related manuals; and
introducing environmental requirements in coordination with the Ministry of the Environment
that was created in 2009.


                                                 19
At the regional level, at the beginning of the project the regional governments were dealing with
substantial duplicities in the area of road infrastructure and without a clear division of
responsibilities between the RIMU under the Regional governments and the RRD answering to
the MTC. By the end of the project, however, the regional RRD were absorbed by the regional
governments, and the their role vis-a- vis the Departments of Infrastructure were clarified, with
each region adopting a different approach to the process of inclusion and division of labor
between the two units. The improvements achieved in term of organization and division of
responsibilities was enhanced by the overdue process of reclassification of the road network and
subsequent transfer of roads to their “natural” owners that also took place during the project
period.

At the regional level the project was instrumental in (i) institutionalizing the routine of road
expenditure planning in most regions (although the participatory aspect continues to be limited);
(ii) strengthening the local capacity for contract management and financial management of civil
works; (iii) starting the incorporation of environmental and social considerations in road works;
(iv) practically terminating the use of force account for road works in most regions, except for a
limited amount of emergency works or activities in isolated regions.

In summary: (i) the project was instrumental in decreasing and eventually eliminating force
account at most regional governments (except for some remaining operations in isolated areas or
in emergency conditions); (ii) duplicity of responsibilities at regional level was eliminated by
regional governments absorbing the ministry of transport offices; (iii) responsibilities and roles
of the various institutions and entities within MTC were sharpened; (iv) improved the normative
and regulatory aspects of the regional road sector through the introduction of technical standards
at the central entity followed by all regions; and (v) the road hierarchy definitions were
completed.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The targets for periodic maintenance were substantially exceeded largely given the efforts of
PVD in establishing harmonized standards and technical documents to facilitate easier
contracting of the works in a decentralized manner, as well as the efforts to secure financing for
maintenance.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A Beneficiary Survey concluded that for the most part the project did contribute to improving
road conditions, as well as in many cases reducing the costs of travel for both passengers and
freight. A notable recurring remark from the beneficiary survey could imply that further
strengthening is needed to enhance specifically sustained and consistent maintenance works
carried out over extended time periods across all regions, as well as strengthen communication
programs so that public perceptions can be better influenced to appreciate real gains in road asset
management practices.

Case studies were carried out on six road sections rehabilitated through the project in five
regions. Two of these road sections were subsequently re-classified as national roads and were


                                                20
paved by the national roads agency after the rehabilitation of the project. Further details are
included in Annex 5. The key findings are summarized below:
(i) The rehabilitation of the secondary roads had positive effects on the local economy by
    energizing productive activities through improved access to markets.
(ii) The rehabilitation of regional roads has improved the integration of isolated communities,
     increasing mobility and accessibility to local resources, especially for tourism.
(iii) While the project did not achieve the intended reduction in transport tariffs, it led to the
     modernization of vehicle fleets and reduction of road traffic crash rates.
(iv) The rehabilitated roads are being affected negatively by the lack of resources dedicated to
     routine maintenance activities and the difficulty of obtaining additional resources.

A Stakeholder Workshop on lessons learned was held to gather information and feedback from
the various stakeholders on the project’s performance, impact on road asset management at the
regional level, and on institutional evolution of PVD and regional agencies. The workshop
included participation of high level representatives of six regional governments (Ayacucho,
Cusco, Huancavelica, Pasco, Puno, and San Martin), Provias staff, IDB’s Task Team Leader, and
the WB teams for PCD closure and the preparation of a new operation for rural roads (PATS).
The outcomes of the workshop helped convey the lessons learned and suggestions for the
implementation of further road investment programs at the regional level. The main findings of
the Workshop are presented in Annex 7, and some of the lessons learned are reflected in this ICR,
as well as the Borrower’s ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

The project with great difficulty achieved some of the physical targets, but the target on routine
maintenance, a basic requirement to ensure sustainability of the interventions was challenged to
meet the goals. While there may be several external factors that impacted the project (such as
reclassification of roads), even those roads that were completed within the PCD struggled to
provide consistent minimum routine maintenance, as indicated by beneficiaries (Annex 5).
Furthermore, funding to ensure maintenance continues to be rather ad-hoc as supreme decrees
must be negotiated annually. The targets on rehabilitation and periodic maintenance have been
substantially achieved thanks in large part to the PCD, and the tireless efforts and dedication of
PVD staff as well as successive administrations in regional governments. At the central level,
there are positive indications that continued assistance to sub-national entities would be
forthcoming as the importance allocated to sound road asset management practices from the
central government is exemplified by the implementation of various iterations of rural roads
projects as well as PCD and the proposed new PATS program which promises an opportunity to
further strengthen institutional capacity at the regional level. Further the commitment, interest
and ownership of government is shown by resources committed (decrees discussed earlier, new
programs being designed, workshop on lessons learned organized by government, commitment
by government to continue supporting regional level,). In this sense the achievements of the PCD
may have potential to be sustainable. It remains to be seen if the same commitment would
continue in periods with more stringent budgetary conditions. However, given the performance

                                               21
in the project on maintenance, as well as findings in the beneficiary survey, the evidence shows
that the outcomes are at substantial risk if no further positive and concrete actions (secured
financing to ensure execution of maintenance works, additional institutional strengthening on the
importance of maintenance and institutionalization on a wide basis of sound asset management
practices) are taken early.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

At entry, the project was well prepared and articulated objectives and components that were
highly relevant to the main goals of the CPS in place at the time and provided a facilitative
opportunity to further support the GOP’s priority actions within the decentralization agenda.
However, project design included some apparent cumbersome and duplicative procedures which
led to inefficient approvals and lengthy no-objection processes. Initial dialogue on the project
seems to have started almost 4 years prior to the approval, reflecting perhaps the difficult nature
and complex environment in which the project was expected to be implemented The project
seemed very ambitious in its design, particularly as it did not seem to allow for room for learning
(while on the other hand, the rural roads project, had been implemented in two successive
iterations, over a 10year period in a centralized manner before advancing to a decentralized
approach). With the regional governments, in hindsight, it seems the project did not contemplate
a steep learning curve and build in options for “recovery” or “exit”.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

During project implementation, the Bank carried out approximately two missions per year (there
are 17 ISRs filed from project start to close). The project was supervised with seamless
coordination between the financiers, and preparation of joint aide-memoires signed by the two
banks, the implementing agency as well as the Ministry of Finance. The team was instrumental
in proposing options including technical and operational milestones in order to achieve the
“inflection point” achieved after the mid-term review. The team carried out great efforts to
coordinate financing with competing government programs, as well as for the rich dialogue of
different technical alternatives in which the supervision team leveraged their global experience
from other countries and in this way was instrumental in the implementation of a pilot that
expanded the range of technical interventions. The team could have more aggressively pursued
options to remedy the project including restructuring of components that seemed to be no longer
relevant given the evolving dynamics within the transport sector. For example it had been
determined that aspects related to regulating transport were not within the purview of PVD; and
it seems the reorganization envisioned for PVD was no longer a priority after the merger of the
Provias departamental and Provias Rural. Further, the dissolving of the Consejo Nacional de
Descentralizacion seemed to also lead to the dissolving of the multi-sectoral advisory committee,
without other alternatives proposed, yet this was an important aspect at project start stipulated as

                                                22
a legal covenant, and did not seem to feature during project implementation. While the team
could have also more actively pursued partial loan cancellation as it became increasingly evident
that the project would have great difficulty disbursing the full amount of the loan given the
extensive time taken to initiate works; this was not a politically viable option during
implementation within the sensitive context of decentralization. The team could have also more
actively pursued a proper implementation of the M&E framework foreseen in the PAD.
Nevertheless, the team did provide close follow up and established quarterly monitoring targets
that served to help the project move beyond the initial delays and substantially achieve the works
targets.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Taking into account both aspects entry and supervision, the overall rating is moderately
satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The government is to be commended for the constant efforts in training and retraining of
regional counterparts who suffered high levels of rotation. At the same time, the government,
along with the bank, could have been more proactive in exploring options to exit. For example
after mid-term, there was a suggestion to explore the possibility of financing low cost paving
options and scaling up the effort. In the end a pilot was carried out but not replicated due to the
timing in which it was carried out during the final months of project implementation thus not
allowing room for new contracts with the new technologies. Partial cancellation was only
considered during the last six months of implementation. The important turned around of the
project in 2010 was achieved thanks to the active role of PVD in ensuring “person to person”
assistance to the regional technical staff. However, in part because of the reluctance of the
government to spend loan funds in consultants, PVD did not count with the necessary human
resources to implement a more active role earlier in the project implementation period.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The agency performed satisfactorily in providing training to successive sets of newly transitioned
governments, including intensive hand holding.

The agency developed a methodology for updating the banks and instituted a joint supervisions
mission schedule, presenting each mission with information in a well prepared and organized
format. The agency continued the practice accumulated from years of implementation of rural
roads projects to provide in a timely manner detailed project progress reports, as well as

                                                23
complying with fiduciary reporting requirements in a satisfactory manner. The agency
performance on the rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works is satisfactory while the
execution of the routine maintenance component is moderately unsatisfactory. The agency
performance on M&E aspects could also be improved given the agency reported on a cumulative
number of km of routine maintenance which obscured the real achievements as the framework
established annual targets.

The agency performance on institutional strengthening was unsatisfactory (i) very little attention
was paid to the institutional aspects beyond training on compliance with world bank policies; (ii)
only during the last 6 months (too late) of project implementation was there intense attempt at
implementing capacity building, with technical courses approved for PVD staff on an ambitious
training program21 (iii) no technical training was offered to regional governments (for example
on road safety, on road asset management techniques, on road maintenance, on low cost paving,
on budgetary planning, or any number of technical courses that may contribute to sound asset
management); (iv) little to no attention was paid to the expected reforms of PVD, nor to propose
a restructuring of the institutional components when the reforms proposed were no longer
deemed relevant; (v) reporting on institutional strengthening activities throughout the project
failed to go beyond a mere reporting of headcount of staff participating and number of
workshops (presumably held to train and re-train regional counterparts on compliance with WB
policies.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Taking into account the above mentioned aspects the overall rating is moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Project Design

    Participatory planning should ensure the meaningful participation of stakeholders that are
     able not only to prioritize their needs but also to have a voice in ensuring that the identified
     needs are met. When the participation of local actors is prevented for lack of funds, project
     design should include the financing of their mobilization and participation.

    A program with a rigid and perhaps overly prescriptive solution for road interventions in
     diverse and geographically dispersed countries may not be appropriate for future projects. A
     pilot carried out at the end of the project exhibited promising results that could be considered
     in future projects. A more gradual approach with flexibility, allowing the possibility of a pilot
     for demonstrative effects and later scaling up could be useful when new mechanisms or
     modalities (decentralized implementation) are proposed.


21
   During the last few months of the project the implementing agency submitted for approval a training program which was largely implemented,
and included courses such as project management



                                                                    24
   The selection of indicators at design stage for projects with particular focus on institutional
    evolution should pay more attention at the outset in designing appropriate milestones that
    could potentially or feasibly be achieved within the project duration. For example, given the
    long known challenges in global practice on maintenance, milestones could have been
    explored concerning the allocation of financing to ensure at the very least, the financial
    incentives are in place, in addition to the indicators regarding quality to ensure the
    interventions continue to be carried out in an incremental manner.

   The project represents a missed opportunity for including training on technical aspects
    including road safety etc. –applies for staff of implementing agencies as well as subnational
    decentralized entities. While the particular project suffered high rotation, there was intense
    training carried out (to comply with policies); had the training included technical aspects, as
    well as focus on national systems in place, the high rotation would result in a bigger pool of
    trained professionals entering the market with transferable skills that would be relevant in
    other projects within the national market. With a greater emphasis on principles (rather than
    procedures) eventually this could be achieved, but would require radical changes to the
    approach to development work so as to lower transaction costs

Operational

   Projects involving a large number of sub-national governments should have the flexibility to
    incorporate a wide (albeit manageable) range of approaches and solutions. They might be
    necessary to secure the ownership of the project from entities with completely different
    views and needs. In this respect, project design should explore the potential gains from the
    acceptance of sub-optimal approaches (e.g. reasonably premature investments) if they are the
    obstacles for a fruitful dialogue on institution building.

   Large and voluntary participation of sub-national governments in Bank financed projects
    might be problematic if financial constraints are not an issue. In that case, projects should
    either focus on those governments that a-priori show interest in the project principles or when
    there is a central government mechanism that strongly encourages their participation. In this
    regard, the Bank and the government should explore ways to encourage non-financial
    incentives for efficient road management (e.g. increased transparency, NGOs participation,
    etc.)

   The noticeable turnaround of the project after the mid-term review was achieved through a
    “hands on” support of PVD that provided on the job training to the technical staff at the
    regions. The success of the approach suggests that direct technical assistance is a more
    efficient tool for delivering the transfer of know-how on specific technical matters than
    training through seminars and workshops. The latter, however, remain a powerful way of
    encouraging the development of policies, processes, trends and the adoption of new ideas in
    management.

Decentralization

   Using country systems in place and strengthening those systems are more adequate for the
    implementation of development projects, particularly in decentralized contexts. The high

                                                25
    rotation experienced in the project caused inefficient training and re-training, resulting in
    intensive hand-holding in order to advance project implementation. For this particular project
    training was directed largely to ensure compliance with the financing entities’ policies,
    particularly in procurement. The availability of lending mechanisms that adopt strengthened
    country systems is of paramount importance, particularly if development institutions aim to
    increase sustainable institutional strengthening that leaves in place structures and systems
    relevant to the existing context.

   Governance: one of the benefits of having ring fenced projects is the possibility to minimize
    risks due to governance failures. Anecdotal evidence shows that the governance at the
    regional level in Peru is vulnerable to political interference and capture (with several regional
    leaders facing judicial charges). The extent to which the road sector is specifically involved
    in these cases is yet to be determined, however it is a global challenge that the road sector
    faces (see recent IEG report on subject). For this project, although allegations were received
    and investigations launched, the robust systems offered by the financing entities policies
    prevented governance failures within the project. For future operations, it is advisable to
    establish an adequate internal control mechanism, in order to verify the information
    submitted by the bidders, including the authenticity of certificates, before signing the
    contracts.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The implementing agency did not raise any issues.

(b) Cofinanciers

The project was implemented jointly with IADB, who did not raise any issues.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

The PAD describes participation of specialized NGOs in monitoring and evaluation, however
this did not take place.




                                                 26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

                                 Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million Equivalent)
                                       Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                                               Percentage of
          Components                 Estimate (USD      Estimate (USD
                                                                                Appraisal
                                        millions)          millions)
1.Preparation of Participatory
                                          5.45                  4.65               85%
regional road planning
Preparation and updating of plans         0.25                  0.12               48%
Feasibility studies                       1.20                  0.90               75%
Technical studies                         4.00                  3.63               91%
2. Upgrading of regional roads           34.71              32.60                  94%
Rehabilitation                           27.50              20.22                  74%
Periodic maintenance                      4.73               9.70                 205%
Supervision                               2.48               2.67                 108%
3.Routine Maintenance of
                                          3.39                  2.06               61%
regional roads
4. Institutional capacity building
                                          3.95                  2.16               55%
& financial audits
5. Project administration                 0.00                  0.00              100%
             Total Baseline Cost         47.50              41.37                  87%
Contingencies                              2.0                0.0                   0%
              Total Project Costs        49.50              41.47                  84%
Front-end Fee IBRD                        0.50               0.13                  26%
      Total Financing Required           50.00              41.60                  83%


(b) Financing
                                                     Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of Co-    Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                       Financing      (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                     millions)   millions)
Borrower                                              100.00       79.5        79.5
Inter-American Development Bank                        50.00      45.97       91.94
International Bank for
                                                        50.00          41.60         83.20
Reconstruction and Development




                                              27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.      The components and achievements described in the Annex 2 are with respect to the
formally revised targets, as approved by World Bank management in a level two restructuring in
June 2010. Table 2-1 comparing the achievements to the original targets is included below. As
discussed in the Results Framework and ICR, the PDO did not change, however the indicators
were reduced, as previously explained in the ICR, namely to reflect revised construction costs
and realistic targets in the context of project implementation, such as reduced number of
participating regions, and reclassification of roads.

                                actual value                                            % achieved of
                revised         achieved by        % achieved of          original      original
baseline        target          closing            Revised target         target        target
                                           PDO Indicators
                                      1. reduced transport tariffs
            n/a            n/a                n/a                   n/a            10%         No data
                       2. increase Quality of regional transport infrastructure*
           9%            17%                16%                    94%             35%            46%
*new Baseline due to network increase to 23740km
                                  intermediate outcome indicators
1. number of participatory regional road plans
              8            24                 24                 100%                20          120%
2. number km rehabilitated
              0         1781                1562                   88%            2200            71%
3. number km periodic maintenance
              0         2202                3541                 161%             2700           131%
4. number km routine maintenance
         2706           4219                2570                   61%            4900            52%
5. number microenterprises
           100            169                110                   65%              180           61%
6. percent government institutional agreements
           0%            71%                71%                  100%            100%          71.00%

Component 1: Participatory Regional Road Planning.

Preparation of Participatory Regional Road Plans:

2.      At closing, the PCD program had financed the preparation of 24 Participatory regional
road plans, representing the 100% of the target as mentioned in the ICR to focus on those regions
that were interested in participating in the PCD. The preparation of the Participatory Plans
includes: a diagnosis of the roads sector in a particular region; an analysis of the demand and
supply for transport services and infrastructure; and a prioritization and evaluation of a menu of
road investment options. The resulting participatory plan contributes in identifying the sub-
project priorities that could be funded under the project.


                                                  28
Component 2: Road Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance

Kilometers of selected regional road segments rehabilitated:

3.      The project contributed in a significant manner to improve the quality of the roads. As a
result of the interventions financed through PCD, since the beginning of the program in 2007,
through 2014, a total of 1562.5 kilometers of regional roads have been rehabilitated allowing for
better flow and increased traffic on these previously bad roads. This represents 88% of the target
of 1,781 kilometers agreed upon in the Second Loan Amendment. The original target was
revised through restructuring to reflect more realistic targets and updated construction costs.

4. The below table shows the cumulative number of km of regional roads rehabilitated:

                              Table 2-2: Kilometers rehabilitated per year
                                                                                        Total
                      2007    2008      2009     2010    2011    2012    2013    2014
                                                                                        (Km)
     Rehabilitation     6.1    15.2       31.7   268.9   209.2   316.0   613.5   101.9 1562.5

Kilometers of selected regional road segments receiving periodic maintenance:

5.      The program initially considered the target of 2,700 kilometers for periodic maintenance
of the roads rehabilitated through the PCD Program. Due to increased construction costs, as well
as delays experienced at the start of the project, along with the reclassification of roads; the
initial targets were formally revised through project restructuring. The new target was
established as 2,202 kilometers of roads to receive periodic maintenance through the program.
However, the target was substantially exceeded due to extensive technical support provided by
the implementing agency PVD. The project achieved a total of 3,540.6 kilometers.

6.     The following table shows the km of periodic maintenance performed in each year:

                                      Table 2-3: Periodic Maintenance
                                                                                        Total
                      2007    2008      2009     2010    2011    2012    2013    2014
                                                                                        (Km)
       Periodic
      Maintenance     142.6   961.9     701.1    293.1    52.7   144.6   734.2   510.5 3540.6


Component 3: Routine Road Maintenance

Mechanized routine maintenance:

7.      Since the beginning of the program until June 2014, a total of 53 sections of the roads
received mechanized routine maintenance. On average, each year, 652.9 kilometers received
mechanized routine maintenance. Until 2010, no mechanized routine maintenance was executed.
This is the main reason for its low completion.



                                                   29
Manual routine maintenance:

8.      The rehabilitated regional roads require continued interventions with manual routine
maintenance activities, in order to preserve the investments. This intervention also creates local
jobs, including for women through the use of microenterprises that are responsible for the labor –
intensive works.

Routine Road Maintenance

9.      The table below shows the number of km of routine maintenance carried out in each year
in a decentralized manner by the regional governments. In the first six months of 2014, 558km
(of the transferred network) received routine maintenance interventions. The number of km
varied each year and suffered some decreases in 2013 due to reduced resources. The annual
average km receiving routine maintenance throughout the project period is about 2570km which
is about 61% of the final target, which was reduced to reflect changed circumstances in the
project, including reclassification of some of the roads which would have been maintained, refer
to Section 2.2.

                               Table 2-4: Routine Road Maintenance
                      2007      2008       2009     2010     2011       2012      2013      2014
 Mechanized RM           0.0       0.0       0.0      361.7    453.1   1188.5      608.4       0.0
  Manual RM
   Transferred        2446.1    2415.8    2599.2     2514.2   2302.9   1890.6      871.9     558.4
  Manual RM
  Rehabilitated          0.0       0.0      21.3        0.0     39.4     107.9     175.7       0.0
 Total Routine
  Maintenance         2446.1    2415.8    2620.5     2875.9   2795.3   3186.9    1655.9     558.4
     Target           2706.0    2706.0    3200.0     3500.0   4200.0   4219.0    4219.0    4219.0
       %                90.0      89.0      82.0       82.0     67.0     76.0      39.0      13.0

Number of micro-enterprises participating in activities under the Project

10.     Manual Routine Maintenance was achieved by regional governments with the use micro-
enterprises. The initial target which was established in the Loan Agreement was 180 micro-
enterprises. However, this target was decreased in the Second Amendment of the Loan
Agreement to 169. By June 2014, 110 micro-enterprises were involved with different regional
governments. 967 jobs (197 women) were created. As the number of microenterprises
performing maintenance is directly linked to the number of kilometers receiving routine
maintenance, the reduction of the target in the latter resulted in a reduction in the target of the
former.

Component 4: Institutional Strengthening

11.     Technical assistance and training: This subcomponent measures the number of people
trained or benefited of the workshops, internships, technical assistance and other learning events
organized under the PCD framework. Throughout the period of execution of the program, a total

                                                30
of 6,938 people were trained in different thematic areas, such as finance and technical
management, environmental and social safeguards, and monitoring and evaluation. This
component also includes the procurement of goods. As of June 2014, 171 units of equipment
were acquired to support the work regional governments in managing their road assets. The
scope of further institutional activities as explained in Section 2.2 was also affected during
implementation.

Percentage of participating regions having successfully implemented their institutional
arrangements

12.     The original Loan Agreement considered a target of 100% of the Institutional
Arrangements successfully implemented by the Regional Governments. However, in the second
amendment of this Loan Agreement a target of 71% was defined to focus only on those regions
that continued to show interest in the program (as expressed in Section 2.2). 17 regions
successfully implemented their institutional arrangements. This represents 100% of the
established target. However the achievements on institutional matters are discussed in the main
section of the ICR.

13.    Table 2-5 below summarizes the project achievements and jobs created per region.
                                                                    6. Percentage      Jobs
                                                                          of          created
                                    3. Km of
                                                    5. Number of    participating
                  2. Km of           selected
                                                   Microenterprises   Region as
                   selected       regional road
 Region/                                           participating in     having
                regional road       segments
Department                                         activities under  successfully
                  segments          receiving
                                                    Part C of the   implemented
                rehabilitated       periodic
                                                       project           their
                                  maintenance
                                                                    Institutional
                                                                     Agreements
Amazonas            140.4              80.8                0             YES            668
Ancash               0.0                0.0                0              NO             0
Apurimac             92.0             272.5                4             YES            623
Arequipa             0.0              103.7                0             YES             68
Ayacucho             89.9            1029.7               21             YES           1170
Cajamarca            79.4              97.5               33             YES            433
Cusco               114.0             276.5               10             YES            729
Huancavelica        126.9             338.1                6             YES            820
Huánuco              19.2             298.8               17             YES            328
Ica                  63.2             165.5                4             YES            402
Junín                89.8             160.8                4             YES            573
La Libertad         296.3             269.9                0             YES           1475
Lambayeque           0.0               71.4                0              NO             47
Lima                 0.0                0.0                0              NO             0
Loreto               0.0                0.0                0              NO             0
Madre de Dios        0.0                0.0                0              NO             0

                                              31
                                                               6. Percentage    Jobs
                                                                     of        created
                               3. Km of
                                               5. Number of    participating
               2. Km of         selected
                                              Microenterprises   Region as
                selected     regional road
 Region/                                      participating in     having
             regional road     segments
Department                                    activities under  successfully
               segments        receiving
                                               Part C of the   implemented
             rehabilitated     periodic
                                                  project           their
                             maintenance
                                                               Institutional
                                                                Agreements
Moquegua         0.0              0.0                 0              NO           0
Pasco            89.4            153.4                5             YES          529
Piura            69.8             0.0                 0             YES          306
Puno            162.8            108.1                4             YES          820
San Martin       86.5            114.0                2             YES          491
Tacna            0.0              0.0                 0             YES           0
Tumbes           42.9             0.0                 0             YES           0
Ucayali          0.0              0.0                 0              NO          188
Total           1562.4          3540.6               110            71%         9687
Target          1781.0          2202.0               169            71%          n/a
%
                 88%            161%               65%             100%          n/a
Completion




                                         32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Beneficiaries
The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) identified two tiers of populations that were expected to
benefit from this Project. The populations living in the vicinity of the roads would gain greater
access to social services and markets, and would also benefit from the increased economic
activity along the roadways. In addition, populations all over the region would benefit from the
improvement of key links in the roadway network, allowing them to reach farther destinations
quicker and cheaper.

Methodology
To predict the economic efficiency of the Project, the PAD performed an ex-ante economic
evaluation on a tentative mix of road rehabilitations investments. This work was complemented
by also conducting economic evaluations of several road rehabilitations performed during the
first year of the Project, using data on their actual costs and benefits. The results of both of these
analyses are summarized in this section to provide a comparison baseline for the ex-post analysis
that was conducted at project closing. This final analysis used the same general methodology of
the earlier ones but with real data on investment costs and benefits accrued. This work was
performed by local consultant and is detailed elsewhere; it is only summarized briefly in this
section.

Ex-Ante Economic Evaluation
The evaluations were performed two different ways depending on the level of traffic of the roads.
Investments in roads with higher than 40 Average Annual Daily Traffic (classified as low-
volume roads) were evaluated using a Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA). This allowed the explicit
consideration of the costs and benefits accrued to long-distance traffic and the calculation of the
corresponding indicators of Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV). On
the other hand, investments in roads with lower than 40 Average Annual Daily Traffic (classified
as very-low volume roads) were evaluated using a Cost Efficiency Analysis (CEA) that estimates
the total investment costs per beneficiary. This method was more appropriate for these roads
because the benefits or rehabilitating them are generally harder to quantify as they are derived
from providing a basic level of accessibility for previously isolated communities.

The CBA of low-volume roads was performed using the Roads Economic Decision Model
(RED) that was developed by the World Bank specifically for evaluating investment in
improving rural roads. This model uses a “consumer surplus” approach to calculate user savings
(vehicle operating costs, passenger time costs, and accidents) following vehicle speed and cost
relationships from the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4). The
characteristics of the roads and other contextual factors are also considered. The evaluation
assumed a 15-year horizon with a discount rate of 14 percent.

A representative mix of 51 tentative road sections, totaling 2,230 km, was analyzed for 5
possible rehabilitation alternatives. The alternative with the lowest lifecycle cost was assumed to
be selected by the RED model. This yielded an ERR of 26 percent with a global NPV of
US$ 63.4 million on the tentative investment portfolio of US$ 113.2 million. A sensitivity



                                                 33
analysis of plus and minus 20 percent on the benefits and costs yielded a worst-case scenario
ERR of 17 percent, which is still satisfactory (greater than 14 percent).

First Year Evaluation
The eight roads shown in Table 4-1 were rehabilitated during the first year of the program, which
provided the PAD an opportunity to perform an economic evaluation of these projects with
actual data. These roads were selected using the multi-criteria analysis framework that was
developed as the main planning instrument of the Project. These rehabilitations had a total cost
of US$ 11.7 million, and were estimated to have benefited 338,000 people living within 5
kilometers of the roads (the standard definition of a ‘beneficiary’ at the time). The economic
evaluation found that these investments had an overall ERR of 25 percent, representing a NPV of
US$ 5.58 million. A sensitivity analysis found that increasing costs by 20 percent resulted in a
still favorable ERR of 20 percent. The same conclusions was found for decreasing benefits by 20
percent, which reduced the ERR to 19 percent. These rates of return were still considerably
higher than the 14 percent interest rate of the country, and very similar to those estimated in the
ex-ante evaluation.

 Table 4-1: First Year Economic Evaluation Results
                                                                      Investment    Average
                                  Length    Traffic   Beneficiaries                             NPV      ERR
 Road Section (Department)                                               (000’     Roughness
                                   (km)    (AADT)       per km.                                (M US$)   (%)
                                                                       US$/km)       (IRI)

 Palian – Vilcacoto (Junin)        3.9       148         2,588           31.4         10         1.2     34

 Vilcacoto - Abra Huaytapallana
                                   24.4      80          2,557           31.3         10         0.2     20
 (Junin)

 Pasco - Desvio Gollariquizga
                                   14.5      188         2,179           82.8         7         0.89     30
 (Pasco)

 Desvìo Gollariquizga –
                                   18.6      183         2,179           96.5         7         0.15     16
 Tambopampa (Pasco)

 Chincha – Huancho (Ica)           22.1      128         3,170           21.5         10        1.28     68

 Chilete Contumaza (Cajamarca)     40.2      74           443            32.3         10         0.2     17

 Paima – Ayabaca (Piura)           53.4      130          772            49.4         10        1.41     26

 Huambutio – Huancarani
                                   28.0      119         1,097           71.7         10        0.57     21
 (Cusco)

 Sacanche – Saposoa (san
                                   21.7      71           706            20.4         10        0.14     21
 Martin)

 Sacanche – Saposoa (Ayacucho)     24.3      103          762            39.3         10        0.63     28

                  Total/Average   251.1      122         1,645           46.6         Na        5.58     25



One of the key takeaways from Table 4-1 is the high degree of heterogeneity observed between
different projects. Rehabilitation costs ranged from US$ 96,500/km to US$ 20,400/km and
beneficiary estimates ranged from 3,170ppl/km to 443ppl/km. This large range of project
characteristics suggests that in the future it is necessary to look at the project level in order to
understand true economic impacts. Looking at just the averages could be misleading.
Nonetheless, all projects achieved acceptable ERRs, even the ones with the highest costs and
lowest benefits.

                                                       34
Ex-Post Economic Evaluation

An ex-post economic evaluation of the Project was conducted (by a local consultant) to
determine the economic efficiency of the investments of the Project22. This analysis followed the
approach used for the ex-ante evaluation, but with actual data on costs and impacts. The cost data
summarized in Table 4-2 was obtained by analyzing final costs for different types of civil works.
The methodology of the ex-post analysis differed from that of the ex-ante analysis in two key
way: (1) all of the rehabilitations in the Project were made to the same specification, while the
ex-ante evaluation had incorrectly predicted that there would be multiple rehabilitation
alternatives; and (2) roads were classified differently in the ex-post analysis to provide results
with a higher degree of granularity. The implications of both of these are discussed later in this
section.
                                              Table 4-2: Average Investment Costs
                                                                              Ex-Post Evaluation Inputs
                                    Component
                                                                   Unit Cost                               Total Cost
                                                                                            Km
                                                                   (US$ /km)                                 (US$)

                          Rehabilitation of Rural Roads              66,619                1,535          102,355,368

                          Periodic Maintenance                        7,940                3,555           28,226,276

                          Supervision of Rehabilitations              5,547                1,483           8,224,727

                          Supervision of Routine
                                                                       640                 3,258           2,084,973
                          Maintenance



Road user costs were estimated for the five motorized vehicle types shown in Table 4-3. Most of
the unit costs increased considerably over the years based on a variety of data sources (if specific
evidence was not available, cost parameters were inflated using aggregate indices). On the other
hand, there was little evidence that the utilization and loading parameters changed decisively one
way or the other. The value of time for car passengers was estimated based: on an average
income of 1,638 soles per month, 176 working hours per month, 70 percent work-related trips,
and non-work time being valued at 25 percent of work time. For bus and truck passengers, the
monthly income was assumed to be 750 soles with the same assumptions as for car passengers.
The average cost of accidents was assumed to remain the same as in the ex-ante evaluation, at
US$100,000 per death, US$5,000 per injury, and US$500 for material damages only.




22
  For additional information beyond this brief summary please see the detailed study submitted by the local consultant included in the project
documentation.



                                                                       35
                                  Table 4-3: Road User Costs and Characteristics
                                           Ex-Ante Evaluation Inputs                     Ex-Post Evaluation Inputs
                Costs
                                            4-Wheel           Light    Medium            4-Wheel            Light Medium
                                   Car       Drive     Bus    Truck     Truck    Car      Drive      Bus    Truck Truck

   Unit Costs

    New Vehicle Cost
                                  11,855    18,579    89,700 69,000    86,250   11,784    18,468   89,162 68,586     85,733
   (US$/vehicle)

   New Tire Cost (US$/tire)        37.4      63.8     274.1   110.9     274.1    46.9      80.1     344.1   139.2    344.05


   Fuel Cost (US$/liter)           0.43      0.43      0.44   0.44      0.44     1.29      1.33     1.33    1.33      1.33


   Lubricant Cost (US$/liter)      2.32      2.32      2.32   2.32      2.32     3.34      3.34     3.34    3.34      3.34

    Maintenance Labor Cost
                                   2.04      2.04      2.35   2.35      2.35     3.77      3.77     4.35    4.35      4.35
   (US$/hour)


   Crew Cost (US$/hour)             0        0.78      2.74   1.65      2.12      -        1.46     5.08    3.06      3.91



   Passenger Time (US$/hour)       1.2        1.2      0.6     0.6       0.6     2.57      2.57     1.18    1.18      1.18


   Utilization and Loading

    Kilometers Driven per Year
                                  25,000    40,000 120,000 60,000      90,000   25,000    40,000   120,000 60,000    90,000
   (km)

   Hours Driven per Year (hrs.)    480       960      2,496   1,440     2,400    480       960      2,496   1,440    2,400

   Service Life (years)            10          8       10       8        10      10          8       10       8       10

   Percent of Time for Private
                                   100         0        0       0        0       100         0        0       0        0
   Use (%)

   Number of Passengers             3          3       40       1        1        3          3       40       1        1


   Gross Vehicle Weight (tons)     1.37      2.18     13.63   6.86      15.4     1.37      2.18     13.63   6.86      15.4




Estimates of traffic composition and traffic growth where obtained from previous studies conducted by
the Ministry of Transport. These are shown in Table 4-4. The growth of traffic was estimated by
assuming an elasticity of transportation demand with respect to income of around one. Over the course of
this project Peru has experienced extraordinary economic growth, ranging from 6-8% per year. Based on
this a conservative traffic growth rate of 7% was assumed. The GDP of rural areas has grown even faster,
leading this growth rate estimate to be conservative for the areas of influence of the Project. The long-
term growth rate was decreased to 5%.




                                                               36
                                          Table 4-4: Traffic Composition and Growth
                                                                                          4-Wheel                       Light     Medium
                                     Variable                                 Car                         Bus
                                                                                           Drive                       Trucks     Trucks

                                     Traffic Composition (%)                  20%           20%           5%            10%        5%
       Ex-Ante Evaluation
                                     Avg. Yearly Traffic Growth (%)           3.5%          3.5%         2.5%          2.5%        2.5%

                                     Traffic Composition (%)                  31%           36%           3%            18%        11%
       Ex-Post Evaluation
                                     Avg. Yearly Traffic Growth years
                                                                              7.0%          7.0%         7.0%          7.0%        7.0%
                                     1 -5 (%)

                                     Avg. Yearly Traffic Growth years
                                                                              5.0%          5.0%         5.0%          5.0%        5.0%
                                     6 -15 (%)



Table 4-5 shows the results of the economic evaluation. Roads were classified into four types
based on the amount of traffic on them. This was different than in the ex-ante evaluation which
only used two road categories. Road traffic data was obtained from pre-investment feasibility
studies conducted before each road rehabilitation. The roads with AADT lower than 50 were
analyzed with the CEA approach and those higher where analyzed with the BCA approach using
the RED model. The local consultant that performed this work had analyzed all of the roads with
the RED model, but the ICR team decided to use the CEA instead for those with low traffic
volumes because it was a more appropriate analysis methodology and allowed for a better
comparison with the ex-ante results. This was estimated by summing the discounted costs of
rehabilitating and mentioning the road for 15 years and normalizing it by the population of
beneficiaries estimated in the project feasibility studies. Both the CEA and BCA analyses
assumed a 15 year time horizon and 14% discount rate, just as in the ex-ante analysis.

                                Table 4-5: Results of Ex-post Economic Evaluation23
                                                                                                                                   Costs per
                                                                          Investment                  NPV                          Beneficia
                            Length      Beneficiaries                       (Million     Investment (Millions                         ry
         Type of road        (km)         per km           AADT              US$)        ($ per km)   US$)               ERR       ($/pax)24

          AADT< 30           56.26          563.74             20.5           2,864          50.90           --            --       186.4

       30<AADT < 50         179.89          773.13             42.2          10,428          57.97           --            --       136.0

       50<AADT<100          416.72          598.90             70.35         27,892          66.93        -13.32         1.7%           --

         AADT >100          883.56          912.24             223.4         61,171          69.23         97.72         38.8%          --

             Total          1,536.43        798.21         5,780.09          102,355         66.62                      27.2%25      148




23
  The local consultant had performed a BCA on all of the road classes, but the ICR team reached the conclusion that the CEA methodology was
better applicable for the lower volume roads.

24
     This column was calculated by ICR team.

25
     ICR team corrected mistake in local consultants work. Average ERR was computed using project investment shares.



                                                                        37
The results of the economic evaluation provide important insights into the strengths and
weaknesses of the Project. Two key factors caused the ERR to be lower than in the ex-ante
analysis: (1) rehabilitation costs were 37% higher than expected, with maintenance costs being
even higher, and (2) the ex-ante analysis assumed incorrectly that the Project would have
different types of rehabilitations for different local conditions, and therefore be able to tailor
investments better to match expected benefits. This led the ex-ante analysis to have the RED
model automatically select the interventions that were the most economically favorable, just as
they would be selected in the Project. However, this assumption was overly optimistic as the
Project since the beginning was not designed with the ability to tailor rehabilitations to local
conditions. As a result, the ex-post analysis indicates that the Project spent as much on roads
with 50<AADT<100 as on those with AADT >100, even though the latter ones had vehicular
traffic that was three times greater, allowing many more people to benefit. Investments in these
higher volume roads saw an exceptional ERR of 31.4% (higher than ex-ante analysis) because
they were highly trafficked. On the other hand the lower volume roads saw a negative ERR
because the rehabilitation costs were simply too large compared to the traffic on the roads and
the potential set of beneficiaries. This leads to the conclusion that future rural roads projects
should incorporate the flexibility to allow for a menu of intervention types that could be applied
depending on local conditions.

A similar conclusion can be drawn about the roads with AADT lower than 50 as they had CEA
that exceeded $100/beneficiary, which is often used as the cutoff measure for cost effectiveness.
Engineering solutions need to be better designed, either having lower costs or reaching more
beneficiaries, to be part of investment programs with favorable economic rates of return.




                                               38
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                                 Responsibility/
            Names                                Title                   Unit
                                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Keisgner De Jesus Alfaro        Senior Procurement Specialist           LCSPT
Sally L. Burningham             Sector Manager                          LCSDE
Maria Elizabeth Dasso           Sr. Social Development & Civil          LCSSO
Tatiana S. Daza                 Senior Executive Assistant                TWI
Mohammed D. E. Feghoul          Lead Municipal Engineer                 MNSSD
Maria Emilia Freire             Senior Adviser                            UDR
Patricia Mc Kenzie              Sector Manager                          AFTME
Aurelio Menendez                Sector Manager                          LCSTR
Isabella Micali Drossos         Senior Counsel                          LEGAM
Xiomara A. Morel                Sr Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM
Alexandra P. Orellana Bonilla   Program Assistant                       CPALS
Nicolas Peltier-Thiberge        Asst. to the President                    EXC
Fernando Rojas                  Lead Public Sector Management            LCSPS
Marco Antonio Zambrano Chavez   Consultant                              LCSEN
Alonso Zarzar Casis             Sr Social Scientist                     LCSSO

Supervision/ICR
                                Sr Highway Engineer – TTL
Maria Margarita Nunez                                                   GTIDR
                                (supervision)
                                Asst. to the President – TTL (entry /
Nicolas Peltier-Thiberge                                                 EXC
                                early supervision)
Ana Lucia Jimenez Nieto         Financial Management Specialist         LCSFM
Selene del Rocio La Vera        Procurement Specialist                  LCSPT
Maria Virginia Hormazabal       Finance Officer                         CTRDM
Anna R. Okola                   Transport. Engineer – ICR TTL           GTIDR
Aracelly Woodall                Sr Program Assistant                    GTIDR
Sebastian Elias Guerrero        Consultant                              GTIDR
Mirtha Pokorny                  Consultant                              GTIDR
Pablo Gonzalez Rueda            Consultant                              GTIDR
Karla Dominguez Gonzalez        Consultant                              GTIDR
Jorge Minaya Osorio             Temporary                               GTIDR
Raul Tolmos                     Environmental Specialist                GENDR
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao         Sr Highway Engineer                     ECSTR
Maria Luz Caballero Alonso      Consultant                              SEGES
Maria Elizabeth Dasso           Sr. Social Development & Civil          LCSSO
Nicolas Drossos                 E T Consultant                          LCSFM
Joseph Paul Formoso             Senior Finance Officer                  CTRLA
Nelly Ikeda                     Financial Management Specialist         LCSFM
Patricia Mc Kenzie              Sector Manager                          AFTME
Isabella Micali Drossos         Senior Counsel                          LEGAM

                                                   39
Xiomara A. Morel           Sr Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Pedro Olinto               Senior Economist                     PRMPR
Keisgner De Jesus Alfaro   Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT
Pierre-Antoine Picand      Temporary                            LCSTR
Juan D. Quintero           Senior Environmental Engineer        EASER
Francisco Rodriguez        Procurement Specialist               LCSPT
Nicolas Serrie             Junior Professional Associate        LCSTR
Tomas Socias               Senior Procurement Specialist        LCSPT
Luis Tineo                 Senior Operations Officer            GFDRR
Evelyn Villatoro           Senior Procurement Specialist        EASR1
Alonso Zarzar Casis        Sr Social Scientist                  LCSSO
Luz A. Zeron               Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                                      38.26
  FY04                                                                      55.02
  FY05                                                                     154.93
  FY06                                                                       4.24
  FY07                                                                       0.00
  FY08                                                                       0.00
                           Total:                                          252.45
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                       0.00
  FY04                                                                       0.00
  FY05                                                                       0.00
  FY06                                                                      29.44
  FY07                                                                      51.65
  FY08                                                                      93.95
                           Total:                                          175.04




                                            40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1.      A local consulting firm performed six case studies of roads that had been rehabilitated and
maintained by the Project, to assess how nearby communities benefited and make
recommendations moving forward. The consulting firm also expanded a baseline survey so that
long-term impacts can be evaluated in the future. This section provides a brief summary of the
findings of the case studies as interpreted by the ICR staff. A complete discussion of the surveys,
interviews, and data collection efforts can be found in related Project documentation.

Methodology of Case Studies
2.      The roads selected for the case studies are listed in Table 6-1. They span a variety of
conditions and locations to best represent the range of investments of the Project. The two
segments selected in the Region of Ica were part of the same road and therefore are treated as
one in this discussion.

                        Table 5-1: Road Segments Selected for Case Studies


                                                         Intervention by
     Region            Road Segment            Length                               Status
                                                             Project


                                                                                Reclassified as
                                                          Rehabilitated in   national road in July
    Ayacucho         Cangallo - Huancapi       22.2 km
                                                              2009           2011, currently being
                                                                                    paved


                                                                                 Reclassified as
                                                          Rehabilitated in
    Cajamarca        Chilete - Contumazá       40 km                             national road,
                                                              2010
                                                                             currently being paved.


                  Segment 1: Chincha - Pte.
                                               26 km
                         San Juan
                                                          Rehabilitated in   Remained secondary
       Ica
                                                              2010                 road
                  Segment 2: Pte. San Juan -
                                               41 km
                       Pte. Huancho


                                                          Rehabilitated in   Remained secondary
      Junín           Palián - Acopalca        23.6 km
                                                              2011                 road


                                                          Rehabilitated in   Remained secondary
    San Martín       Sacanche - Saposoa        21.3 km
                                                              2011                 road



                                               41
3.      Each case study consisted of: (i) surveys of at least 20 community members distributed
throughout the length of the road; (ii) interviews of around 16 key stakeholders in each area,
including leaders in commercial establishments, schools, health centers, local governments, and
transport firms, (iii) and a synthesis of socio-economic data. This comprehensive approach
allowed the investigation of the multi-dimensional impacts that often accompany projects of this
size and scope. One dimension that was of particular interest was the development of local,
regional, and national institutions as part of the institutional strengthening component of the
Project, which had been one of its main priorities. The case study methodology was selected
mainly because it was the most appropriate for better understanding these complex institutional
issues.
4.      The case studies were performed on roads that had been rehabilitated from 3 to 5 years in
the past, to leave enough time for medium-term impacts to materialize, but also to be recent
enough for the beneficiary population to remember conditions before the rehabilitation. The
interviews were conducted at bus terminals at either end of the road segment being evaluated. Yes
or no questions were asked that compared their current situation to before the road was
rehabilitated, along different dimensions. They were also asked to provide reasons to support these
responses.
5.       After the Cangallo—Huancapi and Chilete—Contumaza roads were rehabilitated by the
Project, they were reclassified by the Ministry of Transportation from ‘regional roads’ under the
supervision of the Regional Governments to ‘national roads’ under the supervision of Provias
Nacional. This was precipitated by changes in country-wide policies of the sector. In both of these
cases the roads started being paved shortly after with ‘low cost methods’, which was unknown at
the time that the case studies were being determined. These investments outside of the Project will
have likely contaminated the findings of the case studies by benefiting the local populations in
additional ways; however the consulting firm decided to proceed with them because they could
still provide useful insights. Beneficiaries were asked to compare current conditions after these
road segments had been paved, with conditions before the roads were rehabilitated. This was
deemed appropriate because: (i) it would have been difficult to ask people to recall their situation
after the road had been rehabilitated but before it was paved, and (ii) it was argued that the earlier
rehabilitations were necessary to raise the profile of these roads and create the economic and
political conditions that led to them being reclassified and paved. To an extent, the Project had
contributed in an indirect way to these additional investments by Provias Nacional.

Findings of Beneficiary Surveys
The results of the surveys are summarized in Table 5-2. The following paragraphs provide a
summary discussion of the overarching themes observed in these results.
6.      Quality of Life. The responses to the three questions asked about quality of life measures
were fairly consistent across the case studies. The vast majority indicated that their incomes had
increased from the: (i) greater accessibility to nearby urban centers, (ii) reduction of transport
costs, (iii) higher travel time reliability during the rainy seasons, (iv) greater frequency of
transportation services, and (v) migration to areas surrounding the roads. As expected, responses
were noticeably more favorable in the two roads that had been reclassified and paved. The small
proportion of the people that had not seen improvements in their incomes cited: (i) increased
competition from outside people and firms, (ii) higher prices of transportation services, and (iii)


                                                42
                                                                       Table 5-2: Summary of Impact Evaluation Case Studies (IDEL and MVI SLR 2014)

                                                                                   Ayacucho                Cajamarca                   Ica                     Junín              San Martín

                                                                                                                         Segment 1: Segment 2:
                                                 Variables                                                                Chincha- Pte. San Juan
                                                                              Cangallo     Huancapi    Chilete Contumazá                                Palián Acopalca Sacanche           Saposoa
                                                                                                                          Pte. San      - Pte.
                                                                                                                            Juan     Huancho

                                           Did incomes improve? Yes             90%            100%     60%           70%       55%          70%         60%           80%      90%         80%
Quality of Life




                                           Did employment increase? Yes         70%            70%      50%           70%       50%          55%         50%           20%      80%         90%


                                           Did savings increase? Yes            30%            30%      30%           10%       30%          40%         80%           40%      60%         80%

                                           Did transport tariffs decrease?
                                                                               50%        20%           10%           0%        15%          15%         60%           20%      50%         80%
                                           Yes
Improvement in Transportation Conditions




                                           Average perceived change in                                                                                                       Around 10%
                                                                           No change No change                No change
                                                                                                      No change                        17.5% Increase
                                                                                                                            28% Increase             No change
                                           transport tariffs                                                                                                                 Reduction
                                           Number of companies providing
                                                                                     8                           3                      4                        3                     3
                                           public transport services
                                           Did public transport improve
                                                                              100%       100%           50%           60%       75%          90%         70%           90%      100%        100%
                                           (Comfort, treatment…)? Yes
                                           Does the road receive routine
                                                                                No         No            No           No        No            No          No           No        No          No
                                           maintenance?
                                                                                                              2011 – 1%
                                           Percent of local expenditures on
                                                                                         s/d                  2012 – 4%         s/d           s/d          2013 – 4%             s/d         s/d
                                           routine maintenance?
                                                                                                              2013 – 8%
                                           Was there a reduction in
                                                                                20%            10%      90%           90%       90%          70%         60%           90%      60%         10%
                                           accidents? Yes
                                           Did perceived security improve?
                                                                             80%          80%      100%        100%             70%          60%         80%           80%      90%         80%
                                           Yes
                                           Frequency of inbound and        25 to 30 vehicles from 18 to 20 vehicles from        2 vehicles at 14:00   Vehicles from          20 to 25 vehicles 24:00


                                                                                                                 43
                                                        Table 5-2: Summary of Impact Evaluation Case Studies (IDEL and MVI SLR 2014)

                                                                    Ayacucho             Cajamarca               Ica                    Junín           San Martín

                                                                                                       Segment 1: Segment 2:
                                 Variables                                                              Chincha- Pte. San Juan
                                                               Cangallo   Huancapi   Chilete Contumazá                            Palián Acopalca Sacanche      Saposoa
                                                                                                        Pte. San      - Pte.
                                                                                                          Juan     Huancho
                           outbound public transport service      05:00 to 17:00       05:00 to 17:00                         Vilcacoto to                    hrs
                                                                                                                              Huancayo every 5 min

                           Did travel times decrease? Yes        60%        60%       50%         70%      70%         80%        50%           90%    100%         100%
                           Average perceived reduction in
                                                                    20 minutes           30 minutes       none   Around 4 hours     20 minutes           30 minutes
                           travel times
                           Did access to schools and health
                                                                100%       100%       10%         60%      90%         80%        100%          100%   100%         100%
                           care centers improve? Yes
Accessibility to Markets




                           Did the prices of goods at
                                                                 0%         20%       40%         0%       15%         10%         0%           0%     30%          20%
                           markets decrease? Yes

                           Is there greater access to newer
                                                                 80%       100%       0%          30%      75%         45%        90%           10%    20%          100%
                           goods? Yes
and Goods




                           Did the quality of goods
                                                                 90%       100%       20%         20%      85%         50%        100%          30%    80%          80%
                           improve?




                                                                                             44
the quick deterioration of the roads throughout the rainy season and from increased
vehicular traffic. These negative perceptions were more frequent about the roads that had
been rehabilitated the earliest.
7.       Perceptions on whether employment had increased were generally not as positive,
but still favorable. Some of the positive factors included: (i) increased commercial activity
along the roads, (ii) greater ease to export products to markets, (iii) greater frequency of
transportation services, and (iv) increased vehicular traffic. On the negative side, people
perceived that only workers directly employed in transportation services had really
benefited from the Project, and that new jobs tended to be either temporary or taken by
outside immigrants. Very few negative responses on employment were received in the
Sacanche – Saposa case study.
8.      With regards to savings, responses in all case studies were decidedly negative.
Some of the reasons given were: (i) insufficient incomes that hover around minimum
wage, (ii) increased transportation costs, and (iii) persistence of substance agriculture. A
small fraction of those interviewed indicated that they had invested in livestock and other
productive activities. These could become employers in the future.
9.      Transportation Conditions. To investigate the channels through which the Project
impacted the quality of life of rural Peruvians, follow-up questions were asked about
various intermediate outcomes in transportation conditions. Most of the responses were
generally positive, with the exception of whether tariffs had decreased (which happened to
be a key metric in the results framework of the Project). The consensus was that
transportation tariffs are determined by many factors outside the influence of the project—
resulting from supply-demand interactions that are mainly driven by aggregate trends. The
Project could have decreased transportation costs and tariffs would have still increased if
the aggregate demand for transportation services increased as well (especially if there are
barriers to entry into transportation markets or other factors constraining supply). This,
along with the large variation of responses on this issue, suggests that more precise and
targeted metrics should be adopted in future projects. Another issue with this metric is that
it is only meaningful in the context of what people are paying for other goods and
services—in relation to how their purchasing power has changed in the meantime.
Interestingly, the case study with the greatest perception that tariffs had decreased
(Sacanche-Saposa) also had the most positive responses to the quality of life questions.
10.    Travel times improved considerably according to the six case studies. The main
reasons given for this were that the rehabilitations had: (i) improved the quality of the
roads allowing for greater travel speeds, (ii) increased the frequency of transportation
services reducing the time spent walking, and (iii) increased the use of autos and other fast
modes (like taxis). Improvements in travel times were the largest for the roads that had
been paved (Cangallo-Huancapi and Chilete-Contumaza), but were also substantive
elsewhere, reducing trip times by as much as 40% in one case. In a couple of the cases this
allowed people to visit important urban centers and return within a day, which is critically
important for those without the possibility of paying for an overnight stay.
11.     Evidence on travel times from the beneficiary surveys was corroborated by the
interviews of stakeholders. Health centers reported that improved travel times allowed their
ambulances to service a greater area, especially reaching roadway accidents quicker.

                                            45
Schools reported improved accessibility for students and teachers, and more on-time
arrivals. Similar responses were given by local government officials, who now feel they
can travel easier throughout their jurisdictions. In addition to improving travel times,
almost everyone agreed that travel comfort had improved significantly also.
12.     Safety and Security. The improvement of travel speeds has led to many benefits in
mobility, but in some cases it has caused unintended negative impacts in safety. Overall
accident rates improved, but there are areas of concern were safety has worse. As can be
seen in Table 6-3, of the beneficiaries that indicated that traffic accidents had increased, the
majority named speeding as the main cause. This finding was even more pronounced in the
Cangallo – Huancapi road that had was paved using economic methods that did not
included a widening of the right-of-way (a common complaint also received for roads that
had not been paved). People in this location felt strongly that traffic safety had deteriorated
following the investments made by Provias Nacional—this is an issue that requires closer
attention in the future. Commercial establishments also perceived that accidents increased.
On the other hand, travelers overwhelmingly felt that transportation became more secure,
with a reduced risk of theft or violence on the road. It is difficult to attribute this solely to
the road rehabilitations as most areas of the country have gotten considerably more secure
in recent years.
13.     Access to Markets and Goods. The vast majority of beneficiaries indicated that the
prices of everyday goods have increased or at least stayed the same. Similarly as with
transport tariffs, the prices of goods do not appear to be a good metric for road investment
projects, because they are primarily driven by macro trends such as inflation, aggregate
demand, seasonality and input costs other than transportation. It would be difficult to
explain most of the changes in this variable with road interventions alone.
14.      While the perceived prices of goods have not decreased, their variety has definitely
increased. In all of the case studies except Chilete-Contumazá, beneficiaries reported
having access to a wider range of goods, of better quality. They indicated that commercial
retail stores had become more common, bringing modern products from the big cities and
even from abroad. The recent introduction of cell phone and TV services in many areas has
compounded this modernization trend. Diversification of markets is particularly noticeable
in the food and restaurant sectors. People reported a greater availability of fishes and
seafood, and fresher vegetables and fruits. New cuisines from around Peru, and even the
world, have also been introduced. Interviews of commercial establishments corroborated
these findings. It can be said that improvements in rural roads increase the size of markets,
allowing a greater variety of goods, people and ideas to reach previously isolated areas of
the country.




                                              46
                             Table 5-3: Perception of Safety


                                                  Primary Cause of Accidents
                    Did traffic
Road Segment        accidents
                                                             Narrow road, There are almost
                    decrease?                     Animal
                                  Speeding                    dangerous     no accidents
                                                  crossing
                                                               curves,


Cangallo -
                    10% - 20%       55%             0%           30%            15%
Huancapi


Chilete -
                       90%          20%             0%           20%            60%
Contumazá


Segment 1:
Chincha-Pte. San       90%          25%             0%           0%             75%
Juan


Segment 2: Pte.
San Juan - Pte.        70%          40%             5%           10%            45%
Huancho


Palián - Acopalca   60% - 90%       40%             0%           10%            50%


Sacanche - Saposoa 10% - 60%        50%             0%           15%            25%



Findings of Stakeholder Interviews
15.      Regional Governments were the institutions that implemented most of the civil
works of the Project. Therefore, the interviews of staff at these offices focused more
around institutional and financial topics relating to Project implementation, than on their
perception of benefits and impacts. Overall, these decentralized governments were
successful in executing the rehabilitation works of the Project, having sufficient
institutional capacity to follow Project processes and meet safeguards. However, there
exists the perception in some of the Regional Governments that coordination with Provias
Descentralizado could have been more effective, and that they should have been more
fully included in Project decisions. Nonetheless, project execution was generally
successful.


                                             47
  16.     Table 6-4 shows that there were some deficiencies in performing the routine
  maintenance activities required by the Project. Routine maintenance had always been
  central to the Project, to keep roads in a good condition to maximize societal benefits.
  Otherwise they can deteriorate quickly to pre-rehabilitation states within a couple of
  seasons, impacting negatively the returns of the Project.
  17.     Indeed, one of the common threads running through the beneficiary surveys and
  interviews of stakeholders was that the lack of maintenance had caused the roads to
  deteriorate, causing to some of the less positive perceptions in Table 6-2. It was often
  mentioned that potholes had become more frequent, drainage systems had stopped working
  properly during the rainy seasons, and falling debris had become a greater road hazard. In
  these surveys and interviews people agreed that the condition of the road was worsening
  and that additional maintenance activates were needed.

                         Table 5-4: Status of Routine Maintenance
                                 Year
                                          Status of Manual Routine        Status of Mechanical
Region      Road Segment          of
                                                Maintenance               Routine Maintenance
                                Rehab.
                                         None performed because road was reclassified shortly after
Ayacucho Cangallo - Huancapi     2009
                                                             rehabilitation

                                         None performed because road was reclassified shortly after
Cajamarca Chilete - Contumazá    2010
                                                             rehabilitation

          Segment 1: Chincha-
                                 2010
          Pte. San Juan                  RG indicated that road received RG indicated that road
                                          4 months of maintenance in      received 2 months of
   Ica
                                                     2012               mechanized maintenance in
          Segment 2: Pte. San                 and 2013 combined                   2013
                                 2010
          Juan - Pte. Huancho


                                         RG indicated that this road segment has received adequate
                                          routine maintenance, although it has not maintained the
  Junín   Palián - Acopalca      2011
                                           remainder +850km under its jurisdiction. Maintenance
                                             budget increases 10% per year, according to RG.

                                            RG indicated that they only have resources to maintain
                                           147km of their 965km, coming 30% from them and 70%
                                                                 from Provias.
                                                                            RG indicated that road
  San
          Sacanche - Saposoa     2011       RG indicated that road has       received mechanized
 Martín
                                          received constant emergency       maintenance in 2012.
                                          maintenance through manual However, contractual issues
                                                     labor.                 prevented mechanized
                                                                            maintenance in 2013.
  18.     The deficiencies in routine maintenance and deterioration of the roads were caused
  by the following three factors:

                                              48
(i) Reclassification of roads. The Cangallo - Huancapi and Chilete – Contumazá roads
    were reclassified as ‘national roads’ soon after they were rehabilitated. This
    eliminated any incentive to maintain them as being classified as such implied that
    they were slated to be paved. For the couple of years after the rehabilitation and
    before they were eventually paved, the roads deteriorated quickly, impacting
    negatively the mobility of users. More critically however, ‘national roads’ are
    managed by Provias Nacional under different priorities that do not emphasize
    maintenance to the same extent as Provias Descentralizado (and the Project). The
    lack of maintenance after being paved has led them to deteriorate quickly, according
    to most of the stakeholders and beneficiaries surveyed, accumulating potholes and
    other deficiencies.

   Moreover, there is a sense that the technical specifications of these new pavements
   are subpar and will not last for long in good condition, especially in the absence of
   routine maintenance. Low-cost pavements were used by Provias Nacional to allow
   for more roads to be paved given budgetary constraints, however if they are
   deteriorating rapidly their advantage over simple rehabilitations diminishes. From
   the limited evidence in these two cases it seems that this is not just occurring, but
   also accelerating because of the greater frequency of heavy vehicles (buses and
   trucks).

   The case study interviews and surveys also presented strong evidence that the
   population felt less safe after the roads were paved with these economical methods.
   They attributed this to: (i) the roads not having been widened (can only
   accommodate one-way traffic most of the way), (ii) the speeds increasing, (iii) the
   lack of maintenance leading to obstacles and hazards, and (iv) the lack of
   comprehensive signage as found in other ‘national roads’.

(ii) The Lack of resources was cited as one of the main reason why Regional
     Governments have had difficulties providing adequate maintenance for un-
     reclassified roads. Regional Governments have highly constrained budgets—
     especially if they do not count with taxes from the extraction of natural resources
     (“Canon Minero”)—and often prioritize other types of social investments. Also,
     they do not count with as strong of a maintenance culture as was instilled in the
     Provincial Governments by the parallel Peru Decentralized Rural Transport Project.
     As can be seen from Table 6-4, even in the cases where the Region Governments
     provided some maintenance for Project roads, they had many more kilometers under
     their jurisdiction that had not received any maintenance at all.
(iii)Institutional weakness. Several regional governments indicated that they suffer from
     high turnover in key positions and have low administrative capabilities generally
     (especially on legal issues), creating bottlenecks in the transfer of resources for
     routine maintenance. They could do a more effective job with a more stable
     workforce and increased technical assistance from Provias Descentralizado. All of
     the Regional Governments interviewed indicated that the process for obtaining
     resources for maintenance was too long and complex.



                                         49
19.     Even in the cases of Palián – Acopalca and Sacanche – Saposoa, where the
Regional Government indicated that the road had received adequate maintenance, most of
the beneficiaries and stakeholders interviewed stated that they believed the road was not
maintained properly, leading it to deteriorate. This suggests that it might be necessary to
rethink routine maintenance activities to better meet the needs and expectations of the local
population.
20.      Local Governments (Provincial and District) seemed fully committed to the
improvement of the roads because of their history of working in this area with Provias
Descentralizado and the Provincial Road Institutes (under the Peru Decentralized Rural
Transport Project funded by the World Bank). While local governments were not involved
directly in the rehabilitation or maintenance of Project roads, they remained acutely aware
of the benefits of these types of efforts. Overall, they were very satisfied with the
rehabilitations, indicating that these investments had clearly improved the transportation
conditions of the area. In some cases they saw an increase in commercial licenses for
restaurants, hotels and retail. For them specifically it had enhanced their ability to travel
between urban centers, bringing their governments closer to the people and other
institutions of their jurisdiction.
21.     However, because of their experience working with Provias Descentralizado on the
routine maintenance of rural roads, Local Governments were particularly critical at how
Regional Governments had been managing these activities (especially in Chincha – Pte.
Huancho). A couple of Local Governments suggested that Regional Governments should
do a better job coordinating with them on the rehabilitation and maintenance works. In a
few cases the Local Governments performed emergency maintenance on Project roads
because the community needed it. Perhaps a splitting of responsibilities could achieve the
best outcomes.
22.      Commercial establishments were generally positive about their situation, with most
of them reporting increased sales since the road rehabilitations. Tourist related
establishments such as hotels and restaurants reported greater visits from people from
outside the region, but also increased competition from new establishments. Retail
establishments echoed the findings of the beneficiary surveys in that now they have access
to sell a greater variety of modern goods, such as LCD TVs.
23.     Transportation firms were generally pleased with the road work because they saw
reductions in travel times and maintenance costs, along with increases in the demand for
their services. The reduction of maintenance costs resulted from their vehicles having less
wear and tear because of the smoother roads. This has led to vehicles lasting longer,
incentivizing many of them to buy newer modern models that are safer, more efficient and
much more comfortable. Maintenance was a concern for transportation firms in all case
studies because it affected their bottom-line. In Chincha – Pte Huancho specifically,
transportation firms indicated that the road lasted less than a year in good condition
because of the lack of maintenance. It is difficult to verify this claim, or even reach a
consensus on what a road in ‘good’ condition looks like, but the evidence is clear and
robust that road maintenance is one of the key issues on people’s minds and governments
should work diligently to meet their expectations.



                                            50
24.      Education centers generally indicated that students can now reach their schools
with greater ease, especially for those living in farther away rural areas. Depending on the
location, some schools in larger urban centers predominantly educate students in the
surrounding city, while others in smaller urban centers have a higher proportion of them
commuting from rural areas. In the case of Palián – Acopalca, some of the schools had
around 80% of their students come from rural areas many miles away, leading them to be
critically dependent on the quality of transportation services along these routes. The case
studies presented evidence that these commuter students had benefited greatly from the
increased frequency of transportation services, improving their attendance and timeliness,
especially during adverse weather. Teachers and administrators also benefited in having
better access to the school—a growing fraction of them have even purchased personal
vehicles. There was also a perception that paving the roads improved the health of the
students by reducing dust and other particulate matter.
25.     Health centers perceived that the road rehabilitations allowed them to service a
wider area. For example, after the Cangallo – Huancapi road was improved, patients could
be transported between Cangallo and Huancapi if the capacity was reached at one end or
they could be treated better in the other. They report that the travel time between these two
urban centers was reduced by 1 hours and 20 minutes, and because in this case the road
was paved the journey was less harmful for the patients. Health centers in the other case
studies reported similar findings, although those located near the Chilete – Contumazá road
indicated that increased health consultations have been likely caused by the expansion in
government health programs in the area.
26.     Commissary and police stations reported that the improved roads allowed them to
reach the sites of car accidents and crimes faster. Maintenance costs for their vehicles have
also decreased.

Key Findings

27.     These are the following conclusions the consultants drew from the case studies:
(i) The rehabilitation of the secondary roads has had positive effects on the local economy
    by energizing productive activities through the improved access to markets.

(ii) The rehabilitation of the roads has improved the integration of isolated communities,
     increasing their transitability and accessibility to local resources, especially for tourism.

(iii)The improvement of transitability has not impacted positively transportation tariffs, but
     it has led to the modernization of vehicle fleets and reduction of accident rates.

(iv) The rehabilitated roads are being affected negatively by the lack of resources dedicated
     to routine maintenance activities and the difficulty of obtaining additional resources.




                                              51
Lessons Learned
28.    Some of the key lessons learned in developing this study were:
(i) Basing the case study methodology on qualitative methods allowed sampling the
    opinion of the local population and stakeholders to reveal impacts and results that are
    usually not visible with predominantly quantitative methods.

(ii) The rehabilitation of rural roads contributes to local development to the extent that
     these benefits are ensured by continued routine maintenance.

(iii)The rehabilitation of roads requires close coordination with all of the Regional
     Governments to prioritize investments and select the interventions that are most
     appropriate.

(iv) The participation of municipal governments in the execution of the road works allows
     for a greater involvement of local officials and inclusion in development strategies.

(v) The rehabilitation of roads should consider economic pavements as an alternative to the
    gravel resurfacing that was performed in the Project.




                                           52
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A workshop was organized in Lima on November 21, 2014, by PVD after project
completion. It was designed to provide a platform for participants in the PCD program,
including financiers, with detailed information about the implementation and impacts of
PCD in each region, and in the country as a whole. Furthermore, some useful lessons
learned were extracted and discussed. Key inputs from this workshop were highly useful
to complete this ICR. Additionally, the workshop was useful to improve the performance
of future projects, such as PATS, which is currently under preparation. PVD and
Regional Governments participated in the workshop.

PVD: As the implementing agency, PVD provided detailed information regarding
completion of the project, performance indicators, objectives reached and achievements
of PCD. Moreover, the independent firm in charge of the impact evaluation presented the
corresponding results of their analysis, which was based on four cases of regional road
trenches.

Regional Governments: Four regional governments –San Martín, Puno, Ayacucho, and
Cusco- shared with the team not only their experience on the preparation and
implementation of PCD, but also the impact that this project has had in their respective
regions. In addition, Huancavelica and Pasco participated in discussions following the
presentations which were focused on the institutional capacities of these regional
governments and possibilities of strengthening them.

PVD provided a summary of the main achievements of PCD as follows:
 Decentralization of the road management program.
   Institutional Strengthening of regional governments.
   Culture of maintenance among regional governments: Improvement of the levels of
    intervention in roads.
   Traffic level has increased.
   Quality of Expenditure: Payments against deliverables.
   Introduction to participatory Road Planning approaches of the regional governments.

PVD also summarized the main lessons learned which can be extracted from the project:
 Management tools should be adopted before the beginning of a project
   Support and assist Regional Governments in the elaboration of Regional Road
    Programs
   Justify goals, costs and times with Regional Governments
   Ownership of “Plan Vial Departmental” by Regional Governments
   Consideration of climate change in planning
   Ways of managing non- compliance of contractors

                                           53
       Vulnerability of the program towards political events
       Application of both the national and Banks policies
       Improvements in procurement procedures
       Decentralization: This program has contributed to the decentralization process in the
        country
       New organizational structure of Regional Governments
       Need for monitoring and evaluation

Regional Governments summarized the impact and achievement of PCD:
 Institutional Strengthening: Training of technical staff in the regional governments.
       Strengthening of economy by impact of transport in agro industrial, mining and
        fishing: Possibility of creating new markets in the regions throughout associations or
        microenterprises
       Social inclusion of isolated communities due to the improvement of road conditions.
       Culture of Maintenance within the administrations: Creation of LEY 3019126, which
        gives continuity to maintenance.
       Positive impact in the implementation of transportation policies, which has
        contributed to development in the regions (i.e. logistic corridors)
       The improvement of the regional road network has contributed to enhance the
        economic and social development in the areas of influence of the project. The routine
        maintenance has provided job opportunities.
       Increased coordination among Regional Governments and Provias Descentralizado.
       Coordination between Regional Governments and Ministries for project finance.
       Strengthening of road infrastructure improving communications between urban and
        rural populations.

Regional Governments described their lessons learned:
 Institutional Strengthening: Training should be oriented to key staff from
   municipalities.
       Cycles of intervention in periodic maintenance should be shorter especially in areas
        where precipitations are more frequent. It is not possible to prioritize the execution of
        periodic maintenance in the short term because the cycles of intervention are 3 years.
       Delays in procurement processes due to the time spent in receiving no objections.
       Procurement processes without minimum limitations in the proposals may cause
        problems and delays


26
     This law establishes measures to prevent and mitigate adecuate responses to emergency and disasters situations



                                                                   54
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.1.          Información Básica
                                :
       Nom bre del Proyecto Programa de Caminos Departamentales (PCD)
       Código SNIP                  :
                              PROG-10-2005-SNIP


       País                   Perú      :
       Prestatario            Gobierno Nacional del Perú
       Unidad Ejecutora             : Descentralizado del Ministerio de Transportes y Comunicaciones
                              Provías
                          José Rodriguez Cantinet
       Funcionario Responsable:
       Datos de contacto            :
                              Jr. Camaná Nº 678 - Pisos del 7 al 12 - Lima 01
                                Central Telefónica: (511) 514-5300. Fax: 426-1736


       Financiadores:
       Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo - BID
       Banco Internacional de Reconstrucción y Fomento - BIRF
       Gobierno Peruano - GOP


                                            Inform ación de los Contratos de Préstam o           BID:         BIRF:
                                            Contratos de Préstamo                              1657/OC-PE       7322-PE
                                            Fecha de suscripción                                02/04/2006    15/03/2006
                                            Costo original                                      50,000,000    50,000,000
                                            Fecha de efectividad                                02/04/2006    10/04/2006
                                            Fecha de primer desembolso                          12/04/2007    10/06/2006
                                            Monto de desembolso acordado año 2014 (US$)         46,978,272    44,531,641
                                            Monto final desembolsado al cierre (US$.)           45,971,875    41,604,843
                                            Monto de devolución (US$.)                           1,006,398     2,926,797
                                            * Pari Passu                                           30.20%        30.20%


                                            Meses en ejecución

                                            Desde aprobación                                            101           99
                                            Desde efectividad del contrato                              101           98
                                            Núm ero de extensiones solicitadas                           3            3
                                                      1era. Extensión (meses)                           12            24
                                                      2da. Extensión (meses)                             7            18
                                                      3ra. Extensión (meses)                             5            6
                                            Extensión acum ulativa (m eses)                             24            48
                                            Número de Prórrogas Especiales                               3             -
                                                      1era. Prórroga (meses)                             9             -
                                                      2da. Prórroga (meses)                              3             -
                                                      3era. Prórroga (meses)                             6             -
                                            Prórroga acum ulativa (m eses)                              18            0
                                            Fecha de desembolso final (original)                02/04/2011    30/06/2010
                                            Fecha de desembolso final (vigente)                 15/09/2014    30/06/2014


                                            Modificaciones (Reestructuraciones o Reasignaciones)

                                            Reestructuraciones
                                                      1era. Reestructuración                              -   23/07/2010
                                            Reasignaciones (transferencia entre categorías)
                                                      1era. Reasiganación                       13/06/2012    14/03/2013
                                                      2da. Reasiganación                        15/09/2014    04/07/2013




1.2.          Objetivos del Programa

El objetivo general del programa fue promover, apoyar y orientar el incremento de la
dotación y la mejora de la transitabilidad de la infraestructura de transporte departamental
y el desarrollo institucional, en forma descentralizada, planificada, articulada y regulada,
con la finalidad de contribuir a la superación de la pobreza y al desarrollo del país.

El objetivo específico fue, proveer una mejor integración y conectividad a la población,
un alto nivel de transitabilidad de la Red Vial Secundaria (RVS) y reducir los costos de

                                                                                55
transporte y tiempo de viaje a los usuarios a través de inversiones en rehabilitación,
mantenimiento y acciones dirigidas a la mejora del sistema de gestión vial y de transporte.

1.3.    Descripción del modelo de Intervención

El modelo del Programas de Caminos Departamentales resulta de la adaptación del
modelo utilizado para la implementación del Programa de Caminos Rurales, cuyas
principales características distintivas son: Planificación de la infraestructura vial de
manera participativa, prioridades de inversión de acuerdo a disponibilidad presupuestal,
la contratación de microempresas de mantenimiento vial rutinario, conformada por
habitantes (socios) de las comunidades del ámbito de influencia del proyecto, pobladores
que viven a lo largo de los caminos intervenidos. Para la implementación del Programa
de Caminos Departamentales, además de las características mencionadas, se consideró
también la contratación de pequeñas firmas dedicadas a la ejecución de proyectos de
rehabilitación y mejoramiento de caminos, teniendo en cuenta los aspectos ambientales,
de acuerdo a la normatividad nacional e internacional.

En tal sentido, el modelo de gestión vial que se aplicó al PCD, tuvo como objetivo
fundamental, lograr el mejoramiento de la transitabilidad de los caminos departamentales
en el Perú, a través de la ejecución de proyectos de rehabilitación de dichos caminos y la
implementación de un sistema de mantenimiento, aspecto que le daría al programa, la
particularidad de ser participativo, descentralizado, tercerizado y generador de empleo en
el medio rural, promotor de microempresas de mantenimiento rutinario manual.

Para el logro se sus objetivos, el PCD contempló la ejecución de proyectos y actividades
enmarcadas en 7 componentes que a continuación se nombran: (1) Planificación y
estudios; (2) Obras Civiles; (3) Mantenimiento rutinario; (4) Fortalecimiento
institucional; (5) Administración del programa; (6) Auditoría financiera y operativa; (7)
Imprevistos. Se consideró el componente denominado “Imprevistos”, con la finalidad de
prevenir recursos para financiar acciones no planeadas, en casos que se habrían
presentado contingencia durante la implementación del programa.

1.4    Sostenibilidad

Cuando se implementa este tipo de programas, uno de los aspectos de vital importancia,
exigidos tanto por entidades del Estado como por los organismos financieros
internacionales, es el aspecto de la sostenibilidad de dicho programa; es decir, cómo se va
a lograr la continuidad, la permanencia en el tiempo de lo implementado. Por esta razón,
cuando se diseñó el programa se proyectó una determinada cantidad de dispositivos y
norma legales que sirvieran de anclas para soportar a los principales componentes (los
cuatro primeros). En ese sentido, se consideró como los principales elementos de
sostenibilidad del programa, a los siguientes: (1) Arreglos institucionales; (2) Marco
normativo para la ejecución y operación del programa; (3) Capacidad de gestión de la
organización encargada de la etapa de inversión y operación; (4) Financiamiento de los
costos de operación y mantenimiento



                                            56
1.5.       Costo, Plazo y Ejecución Financiera

El Programa se financió con recursos provenientes de operaciones de endeudamiento
externo provenientes del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID) y el Banco
Internacional de Reconstrucción y Fomento (BIRF –Banco Mundial) y recursos de
contrapartida provenientes del ererio nacional. Inicialmente el programa tuvo un
presupuespo de 200 millones de dólares; 50 millones financiados por el BIRF (Contrato
de préstamo N° 7322–PE suscrito el 15 de marzo de 2006), US$ 50 millones por el BID
(Contrato de préstamo N° 1657/OC-PE suscrito el 02 de abril de 2006) y 100 milones
entre PVD y los gobiernos regionales. Posteriormente el presupuesto del programa se
modificó, alcanzando la suma de US$ 202,631,810.00, los bancos no modificaron sus
aportes (50 millones cada uno) en tanto que los aportes de PVD y de los gobiernos
regionales se incrementó a US$ 102,631,810.00 como contrapartida nacional.
Adicionalmente, durante el periodo de implemetación del programa se realizaron
reestructuraciones, reasignaciones y ampliaciones de plazos, eventos que han generado
modoficaciones de las metas, asignación de recursos por categorías y el cronograma de
ejecución. En ese sentido, próximos al cierre del PCD, se acordó con los dos bancos, los
costos definitivos del programa, que en total asciende a US$ 194.141.723,16 con el
aporte de cada cooperante, con la siguiente composición:

           Cuadro Nº 1: Estructura de financiamiento, propuesta final del PCD
                                     Fuentes de financiamiento del PCD
         BID                  BIRF          RO-PVD                  GORE            Costo Total

       46,978,272.49    44,531,640.67      13,505,226.00            89,126,584.00         194,141,723.16
               24.2%            22.9%                7.0%                  45.9%                  100.0%
                47.1%                                       52.9%                                 100.0%

El Programa con el Banco Mundial (BIRF), se efectivizó a partir del 10 de abril del 2007
y su implementación tuvo una duración de 98 meses, los cuales equivalen a 8 años, 3
meses y 17 días, considerando la fecha definitiva de culminación el 30 de junio de 2014.
Con el BID, el programa se efectivizó el 02 de abril de 2006, en tanto que su
implementación se ejecutó hasta el 15 de septiembre de 2014; por tanto, tuvo una
duración de 8 años, cinco meses y 15 días.

1.5.1.   Costo por componentes: Cuadro Nº 2: Costo total estimado próximo al cierre del
Programa por componentes y fuentes de financiamiento
       Componentes y                              Costo Total por Fuentes de Financiamiento (US$)
         Categorías                 BID               BIRF           RO-PVD            GORE         Costo Total
1. Planificación y Estudios      4,216,796.27       4,648,133.27       281,446.00       469,079.00   9,615,454.54
2. Obras Civiles                41,034,624.63      33,327,079.40     2,017,369.00    76,326,311.00 152,705,384.03
3. Mantenimiento
                                     156,874.26     2,056,428.00                -    12,331,194.00    14,544,496.26
Rutinario
4. Fortalecimiento
                                 1,437,146.33       3,886,420.00     3,112,000.00                 -    8,435,566.33
Institucional
5. Administración del
                                              -                -     8,000,000.00                 -    8,000,000.00
Programa


                                                      57
     Componentes y                                                   Costo Total por Fuentes de Financiamiento (US$)
        Categorías
6. Auditoría financiera y
                                                     132,831.00              113,580.00                94,411.00                                -        340,822.00
operativa
7. Imprevistos                                                  -             375,000.00                            -                           -       375,000.00
8. Comisión Inicial                                             -             125,000.00                            -                           -       125,000.00
          TOTAL                                 46,978,272.49             44,531,640.67           13,505,226.00             89,126,584.00           194,141,723.16

1.5.2           Ejecución financiera

Al cierre del programa, se logró un nivel de avance en la ejecución financiera, por un
monto total ascendente a US$ 167.110.311,72 dólares, que vendría a ser el costo total
efectivo del programa, el cual en términos porcentuales representa el 86.1% respecto al
costo total vigente al cierre del Programa. De los recursos del BID total desembolsado se
utilizó el 97.9% y en el caso del BIRF la utilización efectiva de los recursos alcanzó el
93.4%.

  Cuadro Nº 3: Avance financiero logrado por componentes y fuentes de financiamiento
                                                              Ejecución Financiera Acumulado por Fuentes de Financiamiento al 31/10/2014 (US$)
                                                        Cat
                Componentes y Categorías
                                                        BM
                                                                    BID             BIRF             RO-PVD               GORE             Total

        1. Planificación y Estudios                             4.000.939,98       4.648.133,27       439.293,53          351.318,45      9.439.685,23
        1.1 Actualización de PVDP                      3a           161.931,06      118.246,93         26.934,47                    -      307.112,46
        1.2 Ejecución de estudios de preinversión      3a           727.082,37      899.293,84         31.466,21           66.922,60      1.724.765,02
        1.3 Ejecución de estudios definitivos          3a       3.111.926,55       3.630.592,50       380.892,85          284.395,86      7.407.807,76
        2. Obras Civiles                                      40.692.729,94       32.583.568,88      1.829.235,75       55.185.188,78   130.290.723,35
        2.1 Rehabilitación de 2200 km de RVD           3b     33.953.325,98       20.220.181,11      1.684.397,57       39.706.640,16    95.564.544,82
        2.2 Mantenimiento periódico                             4.427.425,42       9.691.612,06                 -       11.985.789,77    26.104.827,25
        a) Red rehabilitada (2200 km) (Repos. afirmado) 3b                   -                -                 -                   -                -
        b) Red transferida (Repos. afirmado)           3b       4.427.425,42       9.691.612,06                 -       11.985.789,77    26.104.827,25
        2.3 Supervisión de obras de rehabilitación     3b       2.007.994,31       1.969.784,42       144.838,18         2.698.335,63     6.820.952,54
        2.4 Supervisión de mantenimiento periódico     3b           303.984,23      701.991,29                  -         794.423,22      1.800.398,74
        3. Mantenimiento Rutinario                                  128.127,35     2.056.426,86                 -       11.669.383,16    13.853.937,37
        a) Red rehabilitada (2200 km)                  3b            22.480,35      103.958,79                  -          86.924,72       213.363,86
        b) Red transferida                             3b                    -                -                 -        9.641.127,75     9.641.127,75
        c) Red transferida (Perfilado)                 3b           105.647,00     1.952.468,07                 -        1.941.330,69     3.999.445,76
        d) Supervisión (monitores)                     3b                    -                -                 -                   -                -
        4. Fortalecimiento Institucional                        1.038.979,54       2.062.156,99      1.909.585,61                   -     5.010.722,14
        4.1 Asistencia técnica y capacitación          3c           964.699,37     1.940.790,69      1.326.934,01                   -     4.232.424,07
        4.2 Adquisición de bienes y servicios          1             54.310,26       54.371,86        406.773,43                    -      515.455,55
        4.3 Seguimiento, monitoreo y evaluación        2             19.969,91       66.994,44        175.878,17                    -      262.842,52
        5. Administración del Programa                                       -                -      8.016.516,33                   -     8.016.516,33
        Administración del Programa - PCD                                    -                -      8.016.516,33                   -     8.016.516,33
        6. Auditoría financiera y operativa                         111.097,95      129.557,26        133.072,09                    -      373.727,30
        Auditoría Financiera y Operativa (Externa)     2            111.097,95      129.557,26        133.072,09                    -      373.727,30
        7. Imprevistos                                                       -                -                 -                   -                -
        Imprevistos                                    5,6                   -                -                 -                   -                -
        8. Comisión Inicial                                                  -      125.000,00                  -                   -      125.000,00
        Fondo Rotatorio                                                      -      125.000,00                  -                   -      125.000,00
                             TOTAL                            45.971.874,76       41.604.843,26     12.327.703,30       67.205.890,40   167.110.311,72
        Composición de Ejecución por Fuente (%)                 27,5%              24,9%              7,4%               40,2%            100,0%



                                                                             58
      Cuadro Nº 4: Cumplimiento de la utilización de recursos financieros por componentes
                                        Cat    Costo Total             Ejecución       Cumplimiento
          Componentes y Categorías
                                        BM    Vigente (US$:)       Financiera (US$:)      (%)
1. Planificación y Estudios                         9,615,454.54        9,439,685.23      98.2%
2. Obras Civiles                                152,705,384.03        130,290,723.35      85.3%
3. Mantenimiento Rutinario                         14,544,496.26       13,853,937.37      95.3%
4. Fortalecimiento Institucional                    8,435,566.33        5,010,722.14      59.4%
5. Administración del Programa                      8,000,000.00        8,016,516.33     100.2%
6. Auditoría financiera y operativa                  340,822.00           373,727.30     109.7%
7. Imprevistos                                       375,000.00                    -      0.0%
8. Comisión Inicial                                  125,000.00           125,000.00     100.0%

                      TOTAL                     194,141,723.16        167,110,311.72      86.1%


1.6       Metas y logros por componentes

Durante el periodo de implemantación del programa, se han obtenido logros importantes,
que hicieron de la gestión del programa, un proceso efectivo y eficiente, aún cuando la
implementción no alcanzó al cien por ciento de las regiones. El resumen de los resultados
se describe a cotinuación.

1.6.1 Planificación Vial Participativa y Estudios

De acuerdo al diagnóstico elaborado en el contexto de la preparación del PCD, los
gobiernos regionales con capacidad de gestión vial aceptable mostraban como principal
fortaleza sus capacidad instalada –instalaciones y equipos– para atender las vías, en tanto
que sus principales debilidades estaban en la gestión ambiental vinculadas a los proyectos
viales, en sus capacidades para el planeamiento vial, la organización institucional y en la
ejecución de la inversión vial. De igual modo, los gobiernos regionales con capacidad de
gestión vial baja mostraban debilidades generalizadas, siendo las más relevantes las
referidas a sus capacidades de gestión ambiental y de organización institucional.

Es importante destacar que, en relación a la elaboración y actualización de los Planes
Viales Departamentales Participativos, se había planeado atender a 20 regiones en un
principio, el cual luego se incrementó como meta del programa a un total de 24 planes
para igual número de regiones; meta que fue cumplida al 100% al finalizar la
implementación del programa. En cuanto a estudios, se ha logrado de manera
satisfactoria, elaborar los estudios tanto de preinversión como los definitivos o
expedientes técnicos, que son los insumos básicos para que un proyecto evolucione a la
etapa de ejecución física de las obras. En ese sentido se elaboró estudios de preinversión
por el equivalente a 2.014,00 kilómetros de caminos departamentales, el cual para el
BIRF significa un avance final del 99% respecto a la meta acorada, respecto a la meta
acordada con el BID, el avance es del 100%. En lo referente a estudios definitivos, se
logró elaborar dichos estudios por el equivalente a 1.726,00 Km de caminos


                                              59
departamentales a ser rehabilitados, el cual, para el BIRF representa un avance final del
97%, en tanto que para el BID se ha logrado el 100” de la meta acordada.

1.6.2 Intervención en Caminos Departamentales – Obras Civiles

Al concluir la implementación del PCD, en la red de caminos departamentales, se logró la
ejecución de los siguientes productos:

 Proyectos de rehabilitación de caminos departamentales por una longitud total de
  1.562,45 Km.
 Mantenimiento periódico de 3,540.62 Km.
 Mantenimiento Rutinario de la red vial rehabilitada, por un total de 270,5 Km.
 Mantenimiento rutinario de la red vial transferida, por un total de 3.109,74 Km.
 Mantenimiento Rutinario con perfilado de la red trasferida por Provias Rural por un
  total de 1574.35 Km.

Una de las principales características por la cual se identifica el PCD, es el que los
proyectos y actividades del programa, se hayan ejecutado de manera descentralizada, en
todos los niveles y acciones de intervención, la elaboración de los estudios de
preinversión y de los estudios definitivos, la elaboración de los expedientes de
mantenimiento, los proceso de convocatoria con aplicación de las normas de los Bancos
(BID y BIRF), las contrataciones, la administración de los contratos tanto de las obras
como de las supervisiones, entre otras labores relacionadas al programa, han sido
ejecutadas por los propios gobiernos regionales. La labor de Provias Descentrallizado
estuvo centrado en las acciones de fortalecimiento de capacidades de los gobiernos
regionales que participan en el programa, a través de un acompañamiento permanente
con un plan de capacitaciones, en el cual se consideró diversos cursos, talleres, pasantías,
asesorías directas y online, asistencia técnica en temas específicos sean de tipo técnico-
ingenieril así como de tipo administrativo y de gestión.

1.6.3. Mantenimiento Rutinario

En el componente Mantenimiento Rutinario, se ha logrado intervenir con la modalidad de
mecanizado o perfilado en 1.574,35 Km. de caminos de la red vial transferida; entre
mantenimiento rutinario mecanizado y manual de la red vial transferida, se ha logrado
3.109,74 Km; en tanto que, en la red vial rehabilitada se ha intervenido en un total de
270,5 Km. de caminos departamentales. Las cifras en términos de metas y ejecución
logradas se puede visualizar en el Cuadro Nº 5 (metas planeadas y logradas) del numeral
1.7, en esta sección del documento.

1.6.3. Fortalecimiento y Desarrollo de Capacidades

Una de las limitaciones y deficiencias encontradas en los gobiernos regionales fue la
infraestructura organizacional, que no les permitía planificar, manejar e implementar
intervenciones en infraestructura vial de una manera eficiente y sostenible; ello debido a
la existencia de diferentes órganos que realizaban la gestión vial, como la coexistencia de

                                            60
las Gerencias Regionales de Infraestructura y las Direcciones Regionales de Transportes
y Comunicaciones.

Por lo tanto, a través de este componente se propuso financiar específicamente lo
siguiente: (i) La racionalización del marco institucional para la gestión de los caminos a
nivel regional, promoviendo la creación de una unidad única encargada de la gestión vial
regional (de la reestructuración de la GRI y de la DRTyC) con dependencia directa del
gobierno regional; ii) La transición de la rehabilitación y mantenimiento de caminos
realizados por administración directa a ejecución tercerizada y microempresas para
actividades de mantenimiento rutinario manual (actividades elegibles incluirían
preparación de contratos, capacitación en contrataciones y supervisión, definición de una
estrategia para eliminar progresivamente la ejecución por la modalidad de administración
directa y promoción de la constitución de microempresas); (iii) Capacitación en el
manejo de las salvaguardas, que ayudaría a fortalecer capacidades del gobierno regional
para el manejo de salvaguardas (contrataciones y adquisiciones, gestión financiera,
gestión ambiental y gestión social); (iv) Supervisión, auditoría y evaluación, que ayudaría
a implementar en el nivel central una capacidad de supervisar y evaluar la puesta en
práctica del programa (ingresos, egresos, resultados e impactos); (v) Análisis del
suministro de servicios de transporte en los caminos departamentales y aclaración de la
asignación de responsabilidades sobre la regulación de servicios de transporte y
seguridad vial; (vi) Políticas de financiamiento para el mantenimiento sostenible de los
caminos, que ayudaría a evaluar la situación financiera de las regiones y a definir una
estrategia para asegurar y, de ser necesario, incrementar el financiamiento de los gastos
relacionados a infraestructura vial en los gobiernos regionales; (vii) Programación de las
acciones de reestructuración de PVD, para moverse hacia una agencia reguladora
pequeña, ágil y bien entrenada, que defina las políticas nacionales en lo que respecta a la
gestión de los caminos departamentales (por ejemplo, estándares técnicos), monitoree el
trabajo de los gobiernos regionales en la gestión de sus caminos departamentales y les
provea asistencia técnica cuando sea necesario; y, (viii) En caso de necesidad, algunos
recursos podrían ser utilizados para financiar los estudios estratégicos relacionados con la
gestión de caminos departamentales en el contexto de las políticas y programas
nacionales de transporte, complementando otros recursos existentes que se centran en la
formulación de las políticas del transporte.

En resumen, los gastos elegibles para este componente incluían, por ejemplo, la
asistencia técnica proporcionada por consultores, estudios y evaluaciones realizadas por
consultores, costos de capacitación, costos de difusión, costos administrativos y la
organización por parte de PROVÍAS DESCENTRALIZADO (ex Provías Departamental)
de eventos de coordinación para facilitar el intercambio de experiencias entre las diversas
regiones, así como supervisar los resultados.

Objetivo general del componente:

El objetivo general que se planeó con este componente al implementar el nuevo modelo
de gestión vial fue: Generar y reforzar las capacidades institucionales en los gobiernos
regionales de modo que, se superen las debilidades e insuficiencias actuales para

                                            61
desarrollar un nuevo modelo de gestión vial basado en un sistema de planificación
estratégica, conducido por una unidad especializada y ejecutado principalmente bajo
modalidades de contratación o tercerización de obras y servicios.

1.7.           Evaluación de Resultados del Programa

En esta sección se analiza los indicadores de evaluación de desempeño del programa, la
evaluación ex post, la evaluación de impactos y la evaluación de desempeño de los
organismos prestatarios (los Bancos).

1.7.1. Evaluación de indicadores de Desempeño del Programa

Son indicadores que muestran los niveles de logro de los productos que haya tenido,
comparado con las metas planeadas, que a su vez se fueron modificando de acuerdo a las
reestructuraciones concertadas con los bancos.

    Cuadro Nº 5: Metas de indicadores de desempeño con la implementación del PCD
                                                                                                          Avance
                                                                                      Metas                                         Avance
                                                       Metas              Metas                           Logrado
                                                                                    Reestructu   Metas                             Logrado
                                                      Originales      Reestructurad                       Respecto
                                                                                    radas 2012 Logradas                            Respecto
               COMPONENTE                            (Suscripció         as 2010                          a Metas
                                                                                     Vigentes   al Cierre                          a Metas -
                                                          n           Vigentes para                        2010 -
                                                                                      para el  (30/06/14)                          2012 BID
                                                     Convenios)          el BIRF                           BIRF
                                                                                       BID                                           (%)
                                                                                                            (%)
1. Planificación y Estudios
1.1 Actualización de PVDP                                       20                 24                                      100%         100%
                                                                                                   24           24
1.2 Ejecución de estudios de preinversión                   2,200               2,029                                       99%         100%
                                                                                               2,014     2,014.00
1.3 Ejecución de estudios definitivos                       2,200               1,786                                       97%         100%
                                                                                               1,726     1,726.00
2. Obras Civiles
2.1 Rehabilitación de 2.200 km de RVD (1)                   2,200               1,781                                       88%           94%
                                                                                               1,670     1,562.45
2.2 Mantenimiento periódico
a) Red rehabilitada (2.200 km) (repos.
                                                            2,200
afirmado)
b) Red transferida PVR (2.706 km) (repos.
                                                            2,706               2,202                                      161%         102%
afirmado)                                                                                      3,467     3,540.62
3. Mantenimiento Rutinario
a) MR de Red rehabilitada (2.200 km)                        2,200               1,748                                       15%           61%
                                                                                                 443        270.75
b) MR manual Red transferida por PVR
                                                            2,706               2,471                                      126%           92%
(2.706 km)                                                                                     3,371     3,109.74
c) MR Perfilado de Red transferida por PVR
                                                            2,706               2,202                                       72%           89%
(2.706 km)                                                                                     1,761     1,574.35
(1)/ Los avances logrados en obras de rehabilitación corresponden a valorizaciones registradas al 30/06/2014, considera 35 Obras concluidas por
una longitud de 1,382,92 Km. y avances de ejecución por 179,53 Km. de 6 obras, haciendo un total de 1,562,45 Km. Sin embargo, procesando
las valorizaciones al 30 de Septiembre, se ha logrado concluir 1,447,76 Km de rehabilitación en 37 tramos, y un avance de ejecución de 4 tramos
por 133.19 Km, con el cual se alcanzó un avance físico real de 1580.94 Km.




                                                                 62
1.7.2. Evaluación Económica del PCD

Los resultados de la evaluación económica ex post muestran que, a pesar del incremento
del costo total de la inversión, y el incremento de los costos unitarios de inversión que
pasaron de US 50,759 US $ /km previstos en el año de formulación (2005) a US $ 72,166
por kilómetro a la finalización del PCD en el 2014, se demuestra que las inversiones del
PCD fueron rentables, aunque en menor magnitud que lo previsto en la evaluación ex
ante. Así, en la evaluación ex post, se reporta un Valor Actual Neto (VAN) de 10.23
millones de dólares americanos inferior a 63.4 millones de dólares americanos estimados
al inicio de del PCD; La Tasa Interna de Retorno (TIR) de 16.13% ex post, es superior a
la tasa de descuentos del 14%, pero inferior a la TIR reportada en la evaluación ex ante
estimado en 26%.

  Cuadro Nº 6: Indicadores de evaluación económica del PCD ex ante y ex post.
                  Rubros                    Ex ante                Ex-post
   Inversiones (M US$)                            113.3                         140.89
   Inversiones por km (US$/km)                50,759.00                      72,166.57
   TIR (%)                                          26%                        16.13%
   VAN en miles de US $ (al 14%)                    63.4                         10.23

1.7.3. Evaluación de Impacto del PCD

Durante la etapa del diseño de formulación del programa se estimó eleborar una
evaluación de medio término, denominada también evaluación intermedia, con la
finalidad de ir evaluando la evolución de los indicadores de impacto; para tal efecto,
antes delinicio del programa se elaboró la Línea de Base respectiva; sin embargo, la
actividad de evaluación no fue posible ejecutarla debido a que la Línea de Base
mencionada se debilitó casi desde inicios del proceso de implementación, por diversas
razones de origen exógenas al programa.

En ese sentido, cuando en el año 2010, se planteó la posibilidad de realizar la evaluación
de medio término del PCD, un análisis previo de los caminos que formaron parte de la
muestra para el grupo de intervención cuando se construyó la línea de base, se encontró
que varios de ello ya no permanecían en el programa porque el gobierno regional había
decidido que esas vías sean intervenidas a nivel de asfaltado o de mejoramiento, los
cuales no estaban contempladas en el programa; por ello es que, la muestra de los
caminos que continuaban en el programa, resultó con muy baja representatividad como
para suministrar resultados robustos a través de la inferencia estadística.

En consecuencia, a modo de cubrir parcislmente la necesidad de información acerca del
proceso de implemantación del programa, se contrató los servicios de consultoría del
consorcio IDEL –Monitoreo, Vigilancia e Impacto Social SRL, para que en lugar de
elaborar la evaluación de medio término del PCD, se desarrolle el tema denominado,
“Estudios de Casos del Programa de Caminos Departamentales”, al mismo tiempo esta
consultoría se encargó de elaborar otro producto denominado “Elaboración de la Línea de
Base Complementaria del PCD”.

                                           63
En cuanto al Estudio de casos, que se tratará con mayor detalle en la sección IV de este
documento, nos brinda información aproximada sobre algunos indicadores de impacto
económicos y sociales, los cuales se enmarcan en el plano de la percepción de los
usuarios y/o de algunos involucrados, de ninguna manera reemplaza a una evaluación de
impactos, cyos indicadores son trabajados en base a hipótesis de trabajo, que son
contrastados con información de campo mediante un test de hipótesis; los cuales le dan el
carácter de riguroso y científico; en cambio, el estudio de casos realizado, llegó de
manera limitada al ámbito de 6 caminos departamentales intervenidos por el programa y
el procesamiento de la información de campo quedó solo a nivel de estadísticas
descriptivas; los cuales, de tadas maneras nos ayuda a tener una idea acerca de la
satisfacción de los usuarios de las vía estudiadas.

Para la realización de los estudios de casos, se ha considerado seis (06) caminos
departamentales rehabilitados por el programa (PCD) distribuidos en cinco regiones, los
cuales son: (i) Ayacucho, con el camino Cangallo – Huancapi; (ii) Cajamarca, con el
camino Chilete – Contumazá; (iii) Ica, con dos (02) caminos: Chincha –Puente San Juan,
y Puente San Juan – Huanchos; (iv) Junín, con el camino Palián–Acopalca–Abra
Huaytapallana, y (v) San Martín, con el camino Sacanche –Saposoa

1.7.4. Evaluación de Desempeño de los Organismos Prestatarios

Como en los programas anteriores implementados por Provias descentralizado, la
performance de los Bancos financiadores del programa ha sido muy buena y destacable,
por el constante asesoramiento brindado al equipo de gestión de Provias Descentralizado.
La política de haber tenido las puertas abiertas por parte de los bancos fue un factor
fundamental para sacar adelante los proyectos viales.

Cabe destacar que el principal mecanismo formal utilizado por los dos bancos financistas
(BID y BIRF) durante la implementación del PCD, fueron las misiones de supervisión
conjunta realizadas con una frecuencia casi bimensual, mediante reuniones de trabajo en
la sede central de Provias Descentralizado, no solamente revisando y evaluando los
avances, sino también recomendando correctivos y planteando propuestas de solución a
problemas reportados en determinados ámbitos del proceso de implementación. Estas
misiones concluían con visitas a una Oficina de Coordinación Zonal que incluían trabajo
de campo en el que se inspeccionaba de modo presencial, una o más obras viales para
verificar la calidad de ejecución de las mismas y el cumplimiento de los procedimientos y
normas técnicas.




                                           64
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Comments on Draft ICR by the Inter-American Development Bank, Project Co-Financer

1. La evaluación realizada por el Banco Inter-Americano de Desarrollo (BID) considera
la ejecución del Programa de Caminos Departamentales (PCD) como satisfactoria, dado
que logró alcanzar sus objetivos de desarrollo.

Evaluación del proyecto.

2. En términos generales, la implementación del PCD se considera satisfactoria,
considerando la complejidad de la ejecución de un proyecto que fue totalmente
descentralizado. Si bien para efectos del Programa, la unidad ejecutora fue Provias
Descentralizado (PVD), perteneciente al Ministerio de Transporte y Comunicaciones,
todas las contrataciones previstas en el programa (estudios, obras, supervisiones,
mantenimientos) fueron realizadas directamente por los Gobiernos Regionales (GR)
utilizando las políticas de adquisiciones del Banco. Los retrasos en la ejecución del
programa pueden ser atribuibles a varios elementos, entre ellos: aspectos institucionales
de los GR, cambio de contexto económico del país, alta rotación de los GR,
contrataciones con procedimientos no conocidos por los GR, entre otros.

Desempeño del ejecutor.

3. El Banco considera que la agencia ejecutora ha efectuado una labor satisfactoria
durante la implementación del proyecto. Durante la ejecución del proyecto mostró ser
muy proactivo para poder superar muchos de los problemas que se presentaban durante la
ejecución, adoptar medidas para reducir la probabilidad de ocurrencia de determinados
riesgos. Esta labor fue aún más compleja debido a que muchos de las dificultades que se
presentaban durante la ejecución, no se encontraban bajo su control. Un ejemplo de ello,
es que con el cambio de contexto económico, muchos de los GR dejaron de tener interés
en el programa, considerando que buscaban orientar sus inversiones a vías asfaltadas y no
a rehabilitarlas tal como las ofrecía el programa. En este contexto, la labor de PVD
consistió en una gran difusión y conversaciones con los GR para explicar las bondades de
rehabilitar sus caminos y llevarlos a un nivel transitable, con beneficios y menores costos
de inversión que le permitirían mejorar otros caminos de su red. Las dificultades en las
contrataciones que realizaban los GR también llevaban a que PVD tenga que realizar una
permanente asistencia técnica personalizada a los GR de manera que las adquisiciones se
lleven a cabo considerando todo lo establecido en las políticas de adquisiciones de los
Bancos.

Desempeño del Banco Mundial.

4. En opinión del Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo (BID), el trabajo conjunto entre el
Banco Mundial y del BID ha sido positivo. El trabajo conjunto durante el diseño del
proyecto permitió incorporar en el Programa enfoques propuestos por ambos bancos,
enriqueciendo el diseño de las operaciones. El trabajo conjunto durante la
implementación del Programa ha generado valor agregado para un adecuado monitoreo y
supervisión. Ambos Bancos han identificado las ventajas de cada uno en determinados
                                            65
aspectos del monitoreo, y en diversas etapas del proyecto para poder realizar un
monitoreo integral. Asimismo, el diálogo técnico entre ambos Bancos que incluye el
compartir información, identificar debilidades u oportunidades de mejora del programa,
ha sido muy fluido, y ha permitido proponer al ejecutor mejoras en la implementación del
programa. Un ejemplo de dicha coordinación es que ambos Bancos acordaron realizar
un seguimiento detallado al programa, estableciendo metas (o hitos) trimestrales de
cumplimiento, de manera que cualquier desvío respecto a las metas acordadas, permita
identificar problemas y tomar acciones correctivas.




                                          66
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1. Informe de Progreso de PCD Enero- Junio 2014- Provias Descentralizado

2. Implementation Status Reports (from 1 to 17) - World Bank

3. Aide Memoires of Missions from 2007 to 2014- World Bank/Inter-American
   Development Bank/ Provias Descentralizado

4. Legal Agreement of the Loan (including First and Second Amendments)

5. Project Appraisal Document: P078813- Peru Regional Transport Decentralization
   Project- World Bank.

6. Implementation Completion Reports: (a) P095570- Decentralized Rural Transport
   Project and (b) P088153- National Highway Asset Management

7. Consulting Report: Línea de Base Complementaria y Estudios de Casos del Programa
   de Caminos Departamentales- Principales Resultados del Estudio de Casos- IDEL
   Consulting

8. Informe de Evaluación de Impacto- Provias Descentralizado

9. Presentación Logros y Lecciones aprendidas del PCD Taller de Cierre- Provias
   Descentralizado

10. Presentations Lessons Learned from different regions (Cusco, Puno, San Martin,
    Ayacucho)

11. Ayuda Memoria: Actividades de Mantenimiento de las Vías Vecinales y de Vías
    Departamentales- Provias Descentralizado.

12. Mantenimiento de Infraestructura Vial de Vías Departamentales a Nivel Nacional-
    Provias Descentralizado.

13. Decreto Supremo Nº327-2013-EF: Autorizan Transferencias de Partidas a favor de
    diversos Gobiernos Regionales y Gobiernos Locales en el Presupuesto del Sector
    Público para el Año Fiscal 2013 para financiar actividades de mantenimiento
    periódico de infraestructura vial departamental y vecinal




                                          67
MAP




      68
