                                                 Documentof
                                                The World Bank

                                         FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                        ReportNo. 33767-IN




                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                                                       AND

           INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                                       PROGRAMDOCUMENT FOR

                   A PROPOSEDLOANINTHE AMOUNT OF US$150 MILLION

                                                       AND

                 A PROPOSED CREDIT INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 50.5 MILLION

                                     (US$75 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                       TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                                    FOR THE

                     ORISSA SOCIO-ECONOMICDEVELOPMENT PROGRAMI1



                                                  June28,2006




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagement
South Asia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used byrecipients only inthe performance o f their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                   INDIA GOVERNMENTFISCALYEAR
                                            -
                                              April 1-March 31

                                         CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                          (Exchange Rate Effective)

                                   Currency Unit:           Rupees (Rs.)
                                                         as o f June 22,2006
                                         Rs. 1               US$0.024
                                       US$1.oo                Rs. 46.01

                                  Vice President: Praful C. Patel, SARVP
                               Country Director:    Michael F.Carter, SACIN
                                  Sector Director:  Sadiq Ahmed, SASPR
                                 Sector Manager:    Kapil Kapoor, SASPR
                                  Task Managers:    V.J. Ravishankar, SASPR
                                                    Marina Wes. SASPR

                                  ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

APM  Agricultural ProduceMarkets                        LDP       Letter o f DevelopmentPolicy
ATMA Agricultural Technology ManagementAgencies         MDGs      Millennium DevelopmentGoals
BST  Bulk Supply Tariff                                 MOE       Ministry ofEducation
CAF  CombinedApplication Form                           MOF       Ministry of Finance
CAS  CountryAssistance Strategy                         MOHFW MinistryofHealthandFamilyWelfare
CFAA CountryFinancialAccountabilityAssessment           MTEF      Medium-TermExpenditureFramework
DAP  Development Action Plan                            MTFP       MediumTermFiscalPlan
DDO  Drawing and DisbursementOfficer                    NTFP      Non-timberForestProduce
DES  Departmentof Economicsand Statistics               NTPC      NationalThermal Power Corporation
DFID UKDepartmentfor InternationalDevelopment           OED        OperationsEvaluationDepartment
DOH  Departmentof Health                                OERC       OrissaElectricity RegulatoryCommission
DP   DevelopmentPolicy                                  OHSP       OrissaHealth SectorPlan
DPE  Departmentof PublicEnterprises                     OPCB       OrissaPollution Control Board
DPS  DelayedPaymentSurcharge                            OSEDL      OrissaSocio-Economic Development Loan
DRDA DistrictRuralDevelopmentAgencies                   PAC        PublicAccounts Committee
DCRF Debt ConsolidationandReliefFacility                PER        Public ExpenditureReview
EBID  EarningsBefore Interest and Depreciation          PESA       Panchayat Extensionto ScheduledAreas
EMCP ExpandedMalaria ControlProgram                     PFM        PublicFinancialManagement
ERAS Establishmentof an Agency for ReportingAgricultural PHDMS PovertyHumanDevelopmentMonitoring System
      Statistics
FDI   ForeignDirect Investment                           PHRD      JapanPolicy andHumanResources
                                                                   DevelopmentTrust Fund
FRBMl FiscalResponsibilityandBudgetManagementAct         PP        PaniPabcg
FRF  FiscalReformFacility                                PPP       PublicPrivatePartnerships
GSDP Gross State DomesticProduct                         PS        PanchayatSamitis
GNP   Gross NationalProduct                              PSIA      Povertyand SocialImpactAnalysis
GO1   Government of India                                PTF       PovertyTask Force
Go0   Government of Orissa                               ROSC      Reporton the Observanceof Standards and
                                                                   Codes
GP    GramPanchayats                                     SDR       SpecialDrawingRights
HIPC  Heavily IndebtedPoor Countries                     SFAA      State FinancialAccountability Assessment
IBRD  InternationalBank for Reconstructionand            sws       SingleWindow System
      Development
ICA   Investment Climate Assessment                      TA        TechnicalAssistance
ICR   ImplementationCompletionReport                     TFC       Twelfth Finance Commission
IDA   International DevelopmentAssociation               ULB       UrbanLocalBodies
IFC   InternationalFinanceCorporation                    UNDP      UnitedNationsDevelopmentProgram
IMF   InternationalMonetaryFund                          VAT       Value Added Tax
IT    InformationTechnology                              VICS      Village Index CardScheme
JSAN  Joint Staff Advisory Note

                                                                            India
                         ORISSA SOCIO-ECONOMIC vELOPMENT LOAN            DE                                        AND CREDIT I1
                                                          TABLE OFCONTENTS


  PROGRAMSUMMARY                                                                                                                                                         ...
  I.INTRODUCTION         ......................................................................................................................................
                              ................................................................................................................................           111
                                                                                                                                                                         1
  11. COUNTRY AND STATE CONTEXT
     A. RECENTNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTSAND THEIR IMPLICATIONS.........
                                                           ............................................................................................................2 2

     B.DEVELOPMENT OUTCOMESINO M                                                                                ...................................................      4
  111. THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM:STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION                                                                        .....................................    6
     A. ECONOMICREFORMSFORINCLUSIVE GROWTH.....................
     B.FISCALREFORMSAND PUBLIC FIN                                                                                           ........................................     13
     C. PUBLIC SERVICEDELIVERYAND HUMANDEVELOPMENT ......................................................                                                                 18
  IV. BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'SSTRATEGY                                                        ............................................................       24
     A. LINKTO COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY.......................
     B. COLLABORATIONWITH 0                                                                      ........
     C. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER                                                              ...................................................................... .25
     D.LESSONSLEARNED.......................................................................................
   V. THE PROPOSEDORISSA SOCIO-ECONOMICDEVELOPMENTLOANAND CREDIT I1                                                                                                  ......27
     A. OPERATIONDESCRIPTION....................................................................................


     A. POVERTYAND SOCIAL IMPACT............................................................


                                                                                                                                       ...............................    32
                                                                                                   ...............................................................       .32
     F.RISKS AND RISKMITIGATION...........................................................................................................                                33

                                                                         ANNEXES

   ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY (LDP)
            LDP attachment A: Go0 programmatrix
            LDP attachment B: monitorableindicators
    ANNEX 2: OPERATION POLICY MATRIX
    ANNEX 3: ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL SCREENINGMATRIX
    ANNEX 4: FUNDRELATIONS NOTE
    ANNEX 5: ORISSA MEDIUM-TERMFISCAL PLAN(2005-10)
    ANNEX 6: DEBT SUSTAINABILITY NOTE
    ANNEX 7: STATEMENT OF LOANAND CREDITS
    ANNEX 8: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
    ANNEX 9: COUNTRY MAP (IBRD 33341)

 The Orissa Socio-EconomicDevelopment Loan and Credit I1was preparedby an IBRDandIDA teamconsisting of V.J.
 Ravishankar and Marina Wes (SASPR - Co-Task Leaders), Asya Akhlaque, Varsha Marathe (SASFP), Ivor Beazley,
 Manvinder Mamak (SARFM), Jiro Tominaga (ISGIA), Kseniya Lvovsky, Lant Pritchett, Sanjay Srivastava, Richard
 Damania, Maitreyi Das (SASES), Martien van Nieuwkoop (SASAR); Manmohan Singh Bajaj (SARPS),                                                                                 Mohini
 Malhotra (WBIND), Elena Glinskaya, Vikram Menon, Dipak Dasgupta, Paramita Dasgupta, Pooja Churamani, Shiny
 Jaison, Rita Soni (SASPR), Phlip 0 Keefe, Peter A. Berman, ChristineAllison, Nalin Jena, Sangeeta Goyal (SASHD),
 Syed IAhmed (LEGMS), Shellka Arora (SARIM), Salman Zaheer, Rohit Mittal (SASEI), Yee MunSin(HDNSP), Sumir
 La1(SAREX), Robert J. Saum(SARFM), Thao L e Nguyen(LOAG2) and consultantsPriti Dave Sen and SamThangaraj.
1Peer reviewers are Mark Sundberg(DECVP) andMarkRolandThomas (PRMED).


                                                                                   ..
                                                                                  11


                              PROGRAM SUMMARY

                                          India
          ORISSA SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT LOANAND CREDIT II

Bii-rower            Government Of India (GoI)

ImplementingAgency   Government Of Onssa (GOO)

Amount               US$225 million (US$75 million IDA and US$150 million IBRD)

Terms                IDA: Standard with 35 years maturity and 10years grace period
                     IBRD: Payable in20 years including 5 years o f grace period;
                     standard variable interest rates for LIBOR-basedUSD single
                     currency loans.
Tranching            The loan and credit would be disbursed in two tranches, o f US$ 150
                     and US$ 75 million respectively. The operation i s designed so that
                     all key actions for the first tranche have been taken prior to Board
                     Presentation. Disbursement o f the second tranche i s expected in the
                     final quarter o f FY 2006-07, contingent on fulfillment o f the prior
                     actions for the second tranche.
DTscription          Orissa, with a population o f 38 million, i s one o f India's poorer
                     states. The objective o f the proposed second Orissa Socio-Economic
                     Development Loan and Credit (OSEDL 11) i s to support the
                     continued implementation o f structural, fiscal and administrative
                     reforms needed to boost inclusive economic growth and achieve
                     rapid poverty reduction over the medium term. The multi-pronged
                     approach o f Goo's reformprogram includes: (i)   reforms focusing on
                     enhancing agricultural productivity, security o f land rights and
                     market access for poor farmers and forest dwellers, improving the
                     business environment for private investors including strengthening
                     regulatory framework for managing environmental and social
                     impacts o f resource-intensive investment; and reform o f public
                     enterprises;  (ii) fiscal,      financial management     and public
                     accountability reforms, including anti-corruption measures and
                     public procurement reforms, aimed at achieving creditworthiness
                     while creating      additional    fiscal space   for  high priority
                     developmental spending,        and promoting more efficient and
                     transparent management o f the government's financial resources;
                     and (iii)cross-cutting and sector specific reforms in public
                     administration and service delivery, including and especially for
                     human    development       - i.e.,   education,  health  and    social
                     protectiodanti-poverty programs.
                     The proposed operation, consistent with CAS objectives, supports
~Benefits
                     measures to boost rapid, and shared economic growth in one o f the
                     under-developed states o f India, to expand income earning
                     opportunities and access to improved basic services for the poor.
                     The program will also improve the efficiency of spending and
                     reduce the state's dependence on debt financing, while increasing
                     fiscal space for development expenditures along with a rise in theii


                                             111
                                             ...

                    output and outcome orientation. Bank support i s complemented by
                    reform-linkedassistance from GoI.
tisks and their     The Government o f Orissa's overall reform program faces three
ditigation          kinds o f risks. First, possible adverse environmental or social
                    impacts could result in resistance that could stall some o f the
                    reforms and block private investments. The necessity and urgency o f
                    mitigating such risks has been highlighted by recent controversies
                    and conflict over land acquisition for mineral based industries.
                    Second, exogenous shocks could slow down fiscal adjustment and
                    growth. Third, implementation may be slower than planned because
                    o f institutionalcapacity constraints.
                    To ensure high economic and social benefits to the state's
                    population, G o 0 i s taking a number o f steps, including: (a)
                    empowering thousands o f tribal and other women centering on Self
                    Help Groups; (b) enhancing agricultural productivity and market
                    access for small farmers, (c) enhanced allocation o f funds for health,
                    education and social protection especially in the most under-
                    developed regions, (d) accelerating broad-based economic growth
                    by reforming the regulatory framework for private enterprise, and
                    (e) paying increasing attention to managing the risk o f negative
                    impacts o f extractive industries on the natural environment and on
                    people residing inmineralrich forests.
                    A new state-wide Rehabilitation & Resettlement Policy has been
                    adopted and notified in May 2006. G o 0 i s also working on policy
                    initiatives for broader sharing of the benefits o f natural resource
                    based growth, tahng into account internationalgood practices.
                    Several factors further contribute to a mitigation o f political risks.
                    Elections for the Onssa Legislature in 2004 have returned the same
                    alliance and Chief Minister to power. Fairly broad ownership o f key
                    program objectives has been built among senior political leaders.
                    bureaucrats and civil society, through extensive consultations thar
                    are ongoing. The Government of India is also strongly supportive o?
                    Orissa's reform program.
                    Enactment      o f the   Orissa Fiscal Responsibility & Budge
                    Management Act, 2005, and adoption o f an updated Medium-Tern
                    Fiscal Plan (MTFP) consistent with it, reduces the risk o f deviating
                    from the fiscal correction path approved by the State Legislature
                    Sensitivity analysis conducted by the Bank team shows that             i
                    temporary growth shock in one year will only postpone tht
                    achievement o f fiscal correction targets by about one year.
                    To help alleviate capacity constraints, and in close cooperation with
                    other donors, particularly the UK Department o f International
                    Development (DFID), the Bank i s making sure that significant
                    technical assistance i s available to follow through on the reform
                    measures supported by the proposed operation.

                    IN-PO97036
~~
Operation IDNumber




                                             iv

         INTERNATIONAL BANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENTAND
                           INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION
                                          PROGRAMDOCUMENT
                                FORA PROPOSEDLOANAND CREDIT
                                      TO THE REPUBLICOFINDIA
              FOR THE ORISSA SOCIO-ECONOMICDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM11


                                        I.        INTRODUCTION

1.       Located on India's east coast, between West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, Onssa comprises 4.7% o f
India's land mass, 3.7% o f the population (some 38 million people) and over 5% o f India's poor. Despite its
rich endowment of mineral wealth, forests,' lakes, rivers and a long coastline facing South-East Asia, Onssa
remains among the poorest o f India's major states. Annual per capita income in the state (about US$250) i s
not much more than it was twenty years ago; whereas other Indian states that were equally poor in the early
1980s have marched ahead. Orissa's economic growth lagged behind the all-India average throughout the
1990s, with the interior lagging further behind the coastal districts. The State has a large population o f
scheduled tribes (STs) and Scheduled Castes (SCs), mostly living in the interior, who are among the
poorest. Orissa has also been highly fiscally stressed, with the fiscal deficit peaking at nearly 10% o f Gross
State Domestic Product (GSDP) in 1999100; and with interest spending, pensions and wages consuming all
of the state's revenues.

2.       The present government, led by the Biju Janata Dal, a regional party and an ally o f the Bhartiya
Janata Party, was elected in early 2000 for a five year term. Unlike in many other Indian states, elections
held in Spring 2004 returned the incumbent Chief Minister and coalition in Onssa, for a second term that
extends until 2008-09. The renewed mandate strengthened the commitment o f the Chief Minister and his
team to press ahead in implementing the reform program and to widen its scope. Subsequently, the Bank
Board approved the first of a proposed series o f development policy loansicredits in November 2004l, to
support the state's Socio-Economic Development Program, a cross-cutting program o f institutional and
policy reforms. This ProgramDocument seeks approval for a second such operation.

3.       Inlight of Orissa's fiscal crisis, the early phase of the reform program focused on the immediate
necessity o f fiscal correction. Onssa has achieved remarkable progress in its fiscal correction objectives,
and has over fuIfiIIed the targets set inits medium-term fiscal plan (2003-08). The focus o f the reform effort
has now shifted to support more rapid, broad based and inclusive economic growth. Substantial progress
has already been made in the implementation o f reforms in the regulatory environment for private
investment. Economic growth has picked up, reaching an average o f 8.4% over the past years; ahead o f the
all-India average, and nearly double the growth rate o f the 1990s. Moving forward, the program will
progressively address the huge challenges the state continues to face in achieving sustainable, shared
economic growth and accelerating human development. Inthis context, increased emphasis is being placed
in this operation on measures to further improve the performance of agriculture and allied activities in
which the majority of the poor are engaged, alongside continuing measures to improve the business climate,
including measures to strengthen a regulatory fi-amework for managing environmental and social impacts o f
resource-intensive investment. Go0 has also initiated new actions to improve the performance o f social
protection, tribal development and women's empowerment. These include much greater attention to the
impact o f mining and allied private sector development on tribal communities and a better framework for
greater sharing o f benefits.

4.       This Program Document begins by setting the context, with an analysis o f recent developments in
India and their implications for Orissa (Section 11). Section I1also discusses developmental outcomes in
Orissa and highlights remaining challenges.           Section 111 summarizes the Orissa Socio-Economic
Development Program and the current status o f implementation; while Section IV discusses the Bank's

 ' R2004-0192/2(IDNR2004-0243/2)

                                                        1

Program in Orissa. Section V outlines the proposed Operation while the final Section covers project
implementation and monitoring issues.


                              11.      COUNTRYAND STATE CONTEXT

A. RECENTNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTSAND THEIR IMPLICATIONS

5.        India's economic growth over the past quarter century has been one o f the world's fastest. It
jumped from an entrenched 3.5% in the 1970s, to close to 6% during the 1980s and 1990s, leading to
substantial reduction inpoverty. Inrecent years real GDP growth has been particularly impressive, peaking
at 8.5% in 2003/04; it i s estimated at 7.5% in 2004/05 and 8.4% in 2005106, enabled by rising investment
and saving levels, reasonable external demand conditions (merchandise exports have been growing at more
than 20% for three consecutive years), adequate monsoons, and accommodative policy settings. Inflation
has come down to about 4%, from 6% a year ago.

6.        The principal macroeconomic risk facing India i s the fiscal deficit, even though the consolidated
(combined center and state) fiscal deficit i s estimated to have fallen from 10 percent o f GDP in 2001/02 to
less than 8% in 2005/06.2 General government debt has risen from 60% o f GDP in the mid-1980s to 86% in
recent years and debt servicing preempts a large share o f public resources. Reducing the current deficit
over the next three years, a key target set by central and state fiscal responsibility laws, i s an essential
prerequisite for creating the fiscal space for additional public investment spending. The latest 2006/07
Budget continues the trend towards fiscal consolidation by reducing the expected central government
current deficit to 2.1% o f GDP and the overall central government fiscal deficit to 3.8% o f GDP while
 supporting a corresponding reduction inthe states' deficits (see below).

 7.       India's vulnerability to an external crisis i s limited by its record level o f reserves, inexcess o f US$
 160 billion, far exceeding India's gross external debt. In spite o f an increasing trade deficit, the balance o f
payment situation remains fairly comfortable and the current account deficit i s estimated at about 3% o f
 GDP for 2005/06. Significant deficits on the trade account (over 5% o f GDP) are balancedby large inflows
 inthe invisibles account, including remittances from abroad invisibles are estimated at nearly 5% of GDP
                                                                   -
 for 2005/06, malung India the largest recipient inthe world. Capital inflows remain buoyant with a sizeable
 surplus on the capital account, o f US$ 32 billion in 2004/05, with higher inflows expected this year. The
 fastest increase has been in foreign portfolio investment, with Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) picking up
 relatively slowly. The key downside risk facing India in the short term are high oil prices. Although they
 are impacting India's economy (growth, quasi-fiscal deficit, inflation and external accounts), they are
 unlikely to derail the overall trajectory o f the economy.

 8.       While India's economic and social performance has been impressive on many accounts, it has also
 been uneven; and the performance of India's states and regions has become increasingly divergent. More
 than half o f India's poor (some 150 million people) now live in four states alone: Bihar, Madhya Pradesh,
 Orissa and Uttar Pradesh. Following the liberalization o f 1991, most o f the middle and high-income states
 were able to take greater advantage o f the new conditions, because o f better initial conditions, better
 infrastructure and human resources than the poorer states. Both in the eighties and nineties, average real
 GDP per capita in the poorer states grew at around 2.5% annually; average real GDP growth per capita in
 the other states increased from 3.1% in the 1980s to 4.8% in the 1990s. The per capita income in Orissa
 decreased from 74% o fthe national average in 1989/90 to just over halfin 2004/05.

 Incentivesfor state-level reforms

 9.       Many o f the structural and fiscal reforms required to accelerate India's growth and reduce poverty
 are inthe domain o f the states. Improvements in the composition of public expenditures, improvements in

 * IndianEconomic Survey 2005-06.

                                                            2

the investment climate (through the removal of bottlenecks in product and factor markets), as well as more
effective delivery of education, health, and safety-net services, all require significant policy and institutional
reforms at the state level. In addition, almost half of the consolidated fiscal deficit i s made up o f the state-
level deficits. State-level reforms are thus key to India's development.

10.       The Government o f India has in the past few years put in place a range of schemes to support
reform at the state level. Its Fiscal Reform Facility (FRF) provided additional funding to states during 2000-
05 on the basis o f improved fiscal performance, and Orissa was one o f the beneficiaries. Following the
recommendations o f the Twelfth Finance Commission(TFC) for the period 2005-10, which have beenfully
accepted by the Government o f India, reform incentives facing states have been strengthened. State and
central finances will be impactedina number o f ways:

  0    The TFC has recommended an increase intax devolution to states from the existing 29.5% to 30.5% o f
       the net proceeds o f all shareable central taxes and duties. Revenue transfers from the center to the
       states have been budgetedto increase by one percentage point o f GDP in2005/06 alone.
  e    The TFC has set up a Debt Consolidation and Relief Facility (DCW) to replace the FRF. Enacting
       fiscal responsibility legislation qualifies states for restructuring o f old central debt for a fresh term o f
       twenty years at significantly lower interest; and the states are also offered a waiver o f repayment as a
       reward for meeting prescribed annual targets for reducing the revenue deficit and containing the fiscal
       deficit.
  0    The terms o f support from the center to the states have changed. Central support to state development
       plans will now be only in the form o f grants (and not the grant loan mix that has been the practice so
       far). Consequently, the states are required to increasingly access the domestic financial market and/or
       external donors in support o f their state plans. On-lending o f external loans will be at back-to-back
       terms, instead of the practice o f the center intermediating and passing on all external loan funds at the
       standard terms o f central support to state plans.
  0    The TFC has also recommended a range o f special purpose grants, including grants earmarked for road
       maintenance, education and health, conditional on states maintaining the base spending level in real
       terms. Total central grants to states, including for developmental purposes, are budgeted to increase by
       50% in 2005106 alone. The 2006107 Budget enhances these transfers, with a roughly 50% increase in
       flagship programs for rural developments. Orissa's KBK districts, in the hinterland, are among India's
       poorest districts, and are the beneficiary o f special programs supportedby central government grant^.^

 11.,      Implications o f the TFC award for Onssa include: (i)larger share in central revenue sharing (for
                                                                            a
 all states and for poorer states including Orissa), (ii)             reduced debt servicing contingent on continued
 improvements in fiscal performance; (iii)        a harder ceiling on overall borrowing; and (iv) a large increase in
 central grants for special programs such as the Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, the Backward
 Districts Program, the National Rural Health Program, and Education for All. Given the new back-to-back
 lending arrangements that are inplace, India's states will now carry any exchange rate risks associated with
 foreign currency lending.

 12.       GoI guidelinesfor external assistance. To ensure that all states have common criteria and equal
 access to development policy loans from multilateral agencies, Go1first issued a set o f Guidelines in2002.
 Inlight ofthe recent changes instate-center fiscal relations following the TFC recommendations, revised
 guidelines have been issued in2005. The revised guidelines which, inter alia, stipulate that the states need
 to (i)demonstrate commitment to a fiscal correction path that i s approved by the Department of
 Expenditure (DOE),Ministry o f Finance, Government o f India, and i s consistent with targets in the state's
 fiscal  responsibility law; and (ii)     ensure that additional debt contracted as a result o f the Development
 Policy Loan i s within the aggregate borrowing ceiling o f that state, as approved by Go1and utilize the loan
 primarily to retire high-cost debt. The Government o f Orissa has obtained DOEapproval for its updated
 Medium-Term Fiscal Plan, 2005-10. The revised guidelines also stipulate that every DPL will be disbursed


   This area comprisesthe old Kalahandi, Bolangir and Koraput districts, which were reorganizedinto eight districts in 1992-93,
 namely, Kalahandi, Nuapada, Bolangir, Sonepur, Koraput, Nabaragpur, Malkangiri and Rayagada.

                                                                3

in more than one tranche, with the second tranche release being conditional on satisfactory fiscal
performance.

13.       Debt sustainability. With average real economic growth expected to be around 6% and average
real interest rate on outstanding debt at around 5%, the state could run a small primary deficit and still
stabilize its debt ratio. However, giventhe highlevel o f inherited debt, Goo's aim is to first reduce the debt
ratio before stabilizing it. The Medium-Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) for the period 2005-10, tabled in the
Orissa Legislature along with the 2006-07 annual budget on February 14, 2006, projects a primary fiscal
surplus of around 2% o f GSDP on average during 2005-10. The ratio o f outstanding debt to revenue, which
was above 330% during 2001-04, has fallen below 300% in 2004-05 and i s projected to decline below
275% by 2009-10. The projected decline i s sharper in the ratio o f interest payments to total revenue, from
40.2% in 2001-02 to less than 20% by 2009-10. This is because o f the lowering o f the average effective
interest rate through (i)   debt swaps with the Government of India during2002-05, (ii) o f DPL financing
                                                                                                  use
inplace of more expensive new debt, and (iii)           pre-payment o f old expensive debt using part o f DPL funds.
Achievement o f these targets would mean that Orissa would no longer be a `debt stressed state' in 2009-10,
according to the criteria used by the Government o f India. The Note on Debt Sustainability (Annex 6)
compares two alternative scenarios, with and without Bank financing, and also analyzes the sensitivity o f
the outcomes to exogenous shocks, such as growth, interest rate and exchange rate shocks. It shows that
even significant exchange rate shocks (related to Bank financing) are unlikely to derail Onssa's adjustment
effort.

B.DEVELOPMENTOUTCOMESINORISSA4

 14.      Substantial progress has been made in fiscal adjustment. The state has achieved remarkable
progress in its fiscal correction objectives, and has over fulfilled the targets set in its medium-term fiscal
plan (2003-08). According to the latest figures provided by the Accountant General, the primary fiscal
balance has been converted from a deficit o f 6.5% o f GSDP in 1999/00 to a surplus o f 2.7% in2004/055 - a
correction o f 9.2 percentage points in five years. As discussed in Section I11 B below, expenditure
composition has begun to improve and the allocation o f state counterpart funding to fully utilize increased
resources from Go1and external donors has been strongly enhanced.

 15.      Orissa remains one o f India's poorest states. In spite o f rich natural resources, the rest o f India
outgrew Orissa throughout the nineties: GDP grew at an average 4% during the nineties versus an India-
wide average o f 6%. Nearly half o f Orissa's population lived below the poverty line in 1999/00, the latest
year for which data are available. While poverty in Onssa declined significantly during the 1980s, progress
 stalled during the 1990s when poverty levels in some interior regions actually increased. As a result, the
 already marked regional disparities within Orissa have increased further. Orissa's `KBK districts', located
 in the southern and western part of the state, are not only the poorest part of Orissa, but also one of the
poorest and most depressed parts o f India.

  16.     High proportion of tribal population. Onssa has the third highest concentration (after Madhya
Pradesh and Maharashtra) o f scheduled tribes (ST) population. The STs account for 22.2 percent o f the
 total population and more than 40 percent o f the total number o f poor. The relative disadvantage o f the
 scheduled tribe population i s a remarkably robust feature o f the profile o f poverty in Orissa: many social
 indicators for this group are considerably lower than for the majority population, as well as compared to the
 ST populationinother parts of India. Forests cover 30 percent o f all geographical area in Onssa, and are an
 important source o f livelihood for the tribal population, which collect non-timber forest produce (e.g. nuts,
 sal and kendu leaf used inmaking beedis, Indian version of cigarette) for subsistence and sale.

   17.    Faster economic growth i s essential for poverty reduction. Analytical work carried out by the Bank
 in 2005 on poverty and vulnerability in Orissa has reinforced the conclusion that the most essential and
 urgent condition required for reducing poverty in the state more quickly i s a period o f rapid, broad-based

 ~~




   Early outcomes are summarized inthe ICR for this Operation [no. 327651.
   Primary surplus in2004-05 adjusted to exclude one-time factors affecting that year's outcome.

                                                                4

and sustained economic growth. Greater sharing o f the benefits o f mining development with affected
communities is also essential.

18.     Private investment has begun to pick up.A major factor inexplaining the poor growth performance
inOrissa has been the low levels of investment and productivity (see Investment Climate Assessment). It is
therefore encouraging that private investor interest inOnssa has been on the increase in the past 12 months,
especially in steel and other mineral based manufacturing with which Onssa i s richly endowed. Recent
expressions o f interest include investments in tourism and IT services. During 2004-05, investment rose to
US$32 million, up from US$0.7 million in 2003104. Estimates o f proposed investment suggest a further
increase will take place in 2005/06. Onssa rose to first rank among Indian states, according to data
compiled by the Center for Monitoring the Indian Economy, on "investment projects under
implementation" (see Figure 1). This does not include the largest ever foreign direct investment in India so
far (US$ 12billion), by the South Korean steel company POSCO.

                                                          Figure 1:


                                             Private InvestmentUnder
                                                   Implementation
                                 RS Crores  (AnnualAverage, 2002-2005)




                                     1000                                     1
                                             Gujarat   KarnatakaMaharashtra  Orissa




                                     Source: Center for Monitoring the Indian Economy

 19.    Growth in Onssa has accelerated in 2003-05. Economic growth has accelerated in recent years,
including faster growth in mining, agnculture and service sectors; real growth i s estimated at 8.4% on
average over the past two years (2003/04 and 2004/05), compared to less than 4% during the 1990s, and
ahead o f the All-India average. The high agncultural growth rate i s particularly welcome, as this sector
continues to provide employment to over 80% o f all workers, and the highpoverty inOrissa i s closely tied
to low productivity in agriculture, which i s in turn linkedto the prevalence of small and marginal holdings.
Manufacturing growth, which has been low so far, i s expected to pick up soon as a result o f the recent
acceleration inprivate investment.

                                          Table 1: Orissa's economic growth
                                        I 1994195-2000101       1  2001102-2002103       I   2003104-2004105
        - Agriculture                           -0.5%                     -1.9%                    12.8%
          Mining and quarrying                   8.6%                     11.8%                     7.6%
          Manufacturing                          3.7%                     4.5%                      5.1%
          Services                               6.8%                     6.0%                      7.8%

        Note: Realaverage annual growth rates.
        Source: CentralStatistical Organization, with figures for 2004105 being `advance estimates'.




                                                               5

                            Table 2: Comparative Development Indicators - Orissa &
                                                      Selected States

                                                            Per capita     Female                  Infant
                                              Population     income        literacy               Mortality
                                            (inmillions)       (Rs)        rate (YO)        (per 1000live births)
                                               2002-03       2002-03         2001                   2003
         Medium-high-income states
                Andhra Pradesh                   77.2        12206.7         51.2                    59
                  Maharashtra                    99.2         17856          67.5                    42
                     Punjab                      24.6         17595           63.6                   49
              Low-income states
                Bihar (divided)                   85.6        4309            33.6                   60
                    Jharkhand                    27.7          8566           39.4                   51
                     Orissa                      37.5         6693            51.0                   83
            Uttar Pradesh (divided)              171.7         6777           43.O                   76
         Notes: Per Capita income i s at constant 1993194prices. Jharkhand data relate to 1999100.
         Sources; (i)Economic Survey of India, 2005-06; and (ii) Central Statistical Organization.

20.      Human development i s improving, with a long way still to go. The nineties saw a 14 percentage
point improvement in literacy rates, a slowdown in population growth, and a significant improvement in
infant mortality. More recently, output indicators suggest that the number o f out-of-school children has
fallen from 1.27 million in 2001/02 to 0.2 million in 2004/05. Yet, human development indicators remain
below the All-India average and Onssa has a long way to go to catch up with comparator states. Orissa
ranked 11out o f 15 major states on the aggregate Human Development Index (2001), the same ranking that
it had in 1981.

21.      The socio-economic development o f Orissa requires a rise inboth the quantity and quality o f public
investment. Effective public investment has been constrainedby the fiscal crisis and cash crunch inthe past.
The fiscal situation has improved significantly in recent years: the overall deficit has been reduced from
10% o f GSDP in 1999/00 to less than 3% in 2005/06; with the primary fiscal balance converted from a
deficit o f 6.5% to a surplus o f over 3 % in the same period; and the debt stock has peaked. N o w that some
fiscal space i s being created, the attention of fiscal policy and financial management i s appropriately
beginningto shift to the sector level, to maximize impact on outputs and outcomes. Converting outlays into
outcomes was the central theme o f the Finance Minister's speech as he presented the Orissa Budget 2006-
07 on February 14,2006.



     111.         THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM:STATUSOFIMPLEMENTATION

22.      GOO'Sstrategy to accelerate growth andpoverty reductioni s articulated inits Tenth Five-Year plan
and long-term strategy called "Vision 2020", which i s expected to be released as a draft for public
discussion during 2006. From a strategy of relying on the public sector for job creation and for poverty
reduction in the past, the state now regards the private sector and community groups as the major engines
for accelerating economic growth and creating job opportunities. At the core o f this strategy is the agenda
for responsible and accountable fiscal and public financial management, which would enable Go0 to
enhance the quantity and quality o f public investment inhuman and physical capital so that the benefits o f
income growth are more equitably distributed than inthe past.

23.      Go0 has realized that poverty reducing economic growth would need acceleration in both
agriculture and non-agricultural sectors. As was noted in the Program Document for the first operation6, the
principal factors for Onssa's slow growth in the 1990s include: (i)                 l o w productivity o f agriculture, due to
primitive technology, tiny scale o f operation, weak enforcement o f property rights and inefficient public
 investment and management o f irrigation in the past; (ii)           poor road connectivity and limited market access


  Report No. 32765, September 28,2004; pages4 and 5.

                                                                6

for farmers, along with food insecurity restncting their willingness to diversify from paddy; (iii) level
                                                                                                    low
and inequitable utilization o f mineral resources, with little or no forward linkage in the past, due to the
national freight equalization policy that annulled the advantage o f locating industry close to the source o f
raw materials; (iv) an oversized public administration; and (v) the fiscal crisis, which constrained GOO'S
ability for complementary public investments to enhance the returns to private investment.

24.      Go0 recognizes the necessity for accelerated growth in manufacturing industries to lead the leap
forward inthe state's economy. Comparison o f economic growth rates inthe 1990s across the major Indian
states show that the states that had a higher share o f value added from manufacturing tended to grow faster.
Orissa has the lowest share o f the secondary sector at 12% o f net value added inthe economy; the primary
sector, i.e., agnculture and allied activities plus mining, accounts for 41% and services for 47%. Onssa i s
the least urbanized among the major states, with only 15% share o f urban population.                    Urban
unemployment i s high, especially among the educated (20% in 1999/00). Ifthe yield gap in agriculture i s
successfully narrowed and market access for farmers improves, excess labor that i s currently part o f the
invisible underemployment in agnculture will be released from the land. Industry and services have to
grow rapidly enough to absorb this expected shift inthe labor force.

25.      With the goals of accelerating economic growth to 6-6.5% per year and reducing poverty by 7
percentage points during 2002-07, and by 15 percentage points during 2008-12, the State's development
strategy focuses on three cross-sectoral components:

            The private and group enterprise development component focuses on (economic reforms for
            inclusive growth)      -  on improving agncultural productivity and market access for small farmers,
            non-farm income earning opportunities for women, improving the business environment for small
            and medium-scale enterprises, and on privatization, closure and restructuring of public
            enterprises.
            The fiscal, financial management and public accountability component includes a multi-year
            framework for correcting fiscal imbalances, to improve fiscal transparency, public expenditure
            management and financial accountability, with the objectives o f restoring the state's financial
            health, creating additional fiscal space for highpriority development expenditures, and promoting
            more efficient and transparent management o f the government's financial resources.
            The public service delivery and human development component focuses on improvements in the
            effectiveness o f education, health and social protectiodanti-poverty programs through
            institutional reforms, better use o f modem information technology and o f poverty data for policy
            making, with increasedemphasis on outcome monitoring and program evaluation.

26.       Analytical work undertaken by the Bank and others7 suggests that this i s a viable strategy, focusing
appropriately on the critical reforms needed for India's poorer states to make progress on the difficult path
of catching up and reducing poverty.

27.       Overall assessmentof reform program sofar. Implementationo fthe reformprogram supported by
OSEDL Iand progress towards OSEDL I1triggers has been satisfactory (a simplified ICR for OSEDL Iwas
completed inDecember 2005*, with OEDrating institutional development substantial). Along with stronger
than expected fiscal correction, the Government o f Orissa has moved steadily with the implementation o f
reforms in irrigation management, public enterprises and in the regulatory environment for private
investment. Significant progress has also been made in enhancing public financial management and
accountability (see paras 58-64). There have been mixedresults from Orissa's power sector reforms. On the
positive side, service quality has improved and the sector's finances have stabilized. On the negative side,
progress has been slower than expected in reducing system losses, extending service into rural areas and
restructuring the stock o f accumulated liabilities (see paras 41-46). Service delivery reforms have been
 significant in some respects such as participatory irrigation management involving water user groups,


 'IndiaDPR   (2006), Kochhar et a]. (2006).
  Reportnumber 32765.

                                                          7

empowerment o f rural women through self-help groups and the finalization o f a government approved Anti-
Corruption Action Plan inDecember 2005.

A. ECONOMIC REFORMSFORINCLUSIVE GROWTH

28.       GOO'Sgrowth strategy aims at (i) agricultural productivity through landtitling, participatory
                                               raising
irrigation management and the formation o f farmer groups; (ii)          improving market access to small farmers
through public investment inroad connectivity and lifting o f state monopoly on agricultural marketing; (iii)
encouraging small farmers to diversify to higher value added crops through improved extension and
strengthened public food distribution, (iv) encouraging non-farm business opportunities to be tapped by
women's self-help groups supported by micro-credit, and (v) enabling broad-based industrial growth
covering mineral-based manufacturing, food processing including fish and h i t s , tourism and handicraft
exports, through simplifying entry regulations, improving infrastructure and facilitating environmental
compliance. As highlighted in the Bank's Investment Climate Assessment' (ICA) completed for Orissa, the
key concern o f the business community in Orissa is the regulatory environment, with more than half o f
respondents raising this as a major or severe bottleneck in the investment climate; whereas 37% o f
respondents identified infrastructure as a major or severe bottleneck.

Agriculture, Land Administration, Forestry and Fisheries

29.       Agriculture. Without improving the productivity and market orientation o f agnculture in Orissa, it
would be impossible to achieve a visible reduction in poverty. Legislation to amend the Agricultural
Produce Markets (APM) Act was approved by the State Legislature in April 2006. This legislationpermits
private investment in marketing yards and storage facilities for agricultural products; it also enables
contract farming, to help farmers diversify out o f low-value paddy to higher value horticulture and other
crops. Following the amendment o f the APM Act, the immediate challenge during 2006-07 would be to
adopt a set o f rules that would allow for widespread application o f the agreed agricultural marketing
reforms. T o better facilitate knowledge and technology transfer, as reflected in its renewed Agricultural
Policy Framework (currently in draft), Go0 i s moving forward in rolling-out Agncultural Technology
Management Agencies (ATMAs)inall districts under a National Program supported by the Union Ministry
of Agnculture. In order to do so effectively, there i s a need to: (i)              formulate district-wise production
 diversification and marketing strategies; (ii)elaborate ATMA annual work plans; and (iii)                      incorporate
 agricultural marketing and productioneconomics capacity and expertise inthe relevant line departments.

 30.      Irrigation. To facilitate empowerment o f farmers in water resources management, good progress
 has been made inputtingirrigation schemes under the control o f Pani Panchayats (PPs) covering an area o f
 about 0.75 million hectares as o f to date. With the new Onssa Pani Panchayat Act and corresponding Rules
 now operationally in place, the formation time o f PPs has been significantly shortened as the time
 consuming process o f registrationunder the Societies Act i s no longer necessary. A number o f challenges
need to be addressed inorder to sustain the envisaged hand-over o f imgation management to PPs o f up to a
 total o f 1.1million hectares by the end o f 2006-07, and a further 0.3 million in 2007-08. These include the
 need to: (i)   complete required rehabilitation o f canal system as a precondition for PPs to accept O&M
 responsibilities; (ii) awareness campaigns and training programs to adequately prepare members o f
                         step-up
 PPs in taking on new responsibilities that come with increased empowerment; (iii)                  prepare and test O&M
 plans for those schemes that are scheduled to be handed over to PPs; and (iv) strengthen the eroded
 institutional capacity of the Department o f Water Resources to provide adequate support to PPs.

 31.       Land Administration. Inorder to improve access to land for the poor through better secured land
 property rights, Go0 i s moving forward to establish a modernized land administration system, including


  The demand for the Orissa InvestmentClimate Assessment (ICA) - thefirst full-fledged state level ICA report undertakenby the
 World Bank emerged out of the private sector development dialogue being carried out under the programmatic Orissa Socio-
              -
 Economic DevelopmentProgram loanicredit.The report is based on the Orissa IC survey, undertakenjointly by Confederationof
 Indian Industry(CII), the Utkal Chamber of Commerce and the World Bank Group, with the overall support of the Department of
 Industries, Governmento f Orissa.

                                                             8

actions aimed at regularizing land property rights for tribal populations. For this purpose, a system for
updating o f Records of Rightshas been put in place, and there i s continued, albeit slow, progress towards
the digitization o f cadastral maps. During2006-07, the focus will be on measures to harmonize the existing
regulatory framework and streamline the existing institutional structure in a manner that reflects the
requirements o f an effective, efficient, equitable and transparent land administration system. Go0 also
plans to initiate discussion on reform o f land legislation to enhance productivity and access o f tenant
farmers to bank credit, with adequate protectiono f all stakeholder interests.

32.       Forestry. GOO,with support from DFID, has elaborated a comprehensive forest sector vision and
strategy with broad stakeholder inputs. By doing so, the importance of the forestry sub-sector as a
potentially important source of income generation for the poor is recognized, particularly for Orissa's large
tribal population. Inline with the prepared vision and strategy for the forestry sub-sector, there is a need to
initiate a change management process that would enable the Forest Department to better focus itself on core
business functions such as community-based forestry and its regulatory functions. Buildingon this renewed
focus, and in line with revised guidelines for Joint Forest Management to be issued in 2006-07, new
approaches for non-timber forest produce (NTFP), bamboo, medicinal plants, and timber production aimed
at increased value-addition can be tested through pilot projects and subsequently scaled-up. In support o f
this renewed focus, the Department will also move forward to strengthen its field presence by filling-up
critical vacancies and delegation of decision-making powers to field-based officers.

33.       Watershed and fisheries. The recent strengthening o f Onssa's watershed mission along with the
adoption o f a sector-wide, livelihoods-based watershed management approach infour districts has created a
good starting point for scaling-up participatory approaches to watershed management in the state. The
Fisheries Department has been engaged for some time now in discussions with key stakeholders to gauge
support for policy reforms, capacity building and investments aimed at improving revenue generating
capacity o f community-based inland and marine fisheries. UNDP with support from DFID i s supporting
the Fisheries Department inthis endeavor.

Regulatoryframework for private enterprise

 34.       Progress to date. Go0 has made important progress in improving the regulatory framework for
business over the past year. Key provisions of the new legislation include: (i)            introduction o f a Combined
Application Form (CAF), reducing the number o f application clearance forms for establishment o f
 industries required from 18 to one; (ii)introduction o f a time bound clearance system; and (iii)self-
 certification for compliance with provisions o f applicable industry and labor related Acts & Rules.
 Following the enactment o f the legislation to establish a Single Window system (SWS), Go0 has also
 notified the Industries Facilitation Rules in March, 2005, laying down the operational details. Recognizing
 the importance o f strong and effective environmental regulation to manage the impacts of growing mineral-
 based industry, an institutional needs assessment o f the Orissa Pollution Control Board to ensure
 environmental due diligence and improve compliance has been undertaken with support from the Bank.
 Go0 has also completed the State o f Environment Report, which summarizes the environmental situation in
 the state and outlines areas for priority action.

 35.       Future challenges. The Labor Department and Factories Department are currently undertaking a
 review o f       their     respective      regulatory requirements              with aview to   further     streamlining
 requirements/combining inspections to facilitate the provisions o f the Industries Facilitation Act. In its
 efforts to broaden the growth-enhancing reforms, the issue o f poor access and quality o f infrastructure
 provision remains a major constraint. Encouraging public private partnerships (PPP), through the
 introduction o f a PPP policy for Infrastructure Development, i s an important element o f this reform
 strategy." The PPP framework lays down the institutional arrangements and the modalities for coordinating
 the appraisal and approval process between the various line departments and the finance department, for
 each PPP transaction. With respect to improving an environmental regulatory framework, Go0 intends to


 loThe draft PPP Policy on Infrastructure was approved on August 25, 2005 by an Apex Committee headed by the Chief Secretary
 of Orissa. The final draft policy will be sent to the State Cabinet for approval.

                                                                      9

initiate the implementation o f the OPCB efficiency enhancing and capacity building action plan, with a
particular focus on building capacity o f regional offices in areas o f concentrated new investment,
rationalizing consent management and inspection procedures, piloting innovative incentives for compliance
and approving a staffing plan. Similarly, Go0 is planningto initiate a program for strengthening capacity o f
the Forest Department to improve effectiveness o f forest conservation measures and forest clearance
process for industrialprojects.

36.       Measurable outcome indicators have been developed to track further progress and include a
reduction inregulatory delays associated with setting up and operating a business in Onssa, and a reduction
in the number o f labor and factory related inspections and filing returns, as well as specific indicators to
measure performance o f OPCB (such as reduction in the percentage o f complete applications carried
forward each year). Building on the support provided by WBI, an effective monitoring and coordinating
mechanism- including a standardized format for quarterly monitoring review o f all the agencies involved in
the SWS, would be put inplace to track the progress o f the indicators." Technical Assistance to OPCB to
implement the plan and track progress in outcomes indicators will be provided.

Mining and Peripheral Development

37.       Progress to date. A new state-level Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) policy, adopted after
broad stakeholder consultations and notified in M a y 2006, contains several measures for the benefit of the
affected population. The Orissa Rural Infrastructure and Socio-Economic Development Act, 2004, proposes
to levy a tax varying from 5% to 20% o f value o f land allocated for mineral extraction and use the revenue
for developingrural and mine-affected areas. The government has also issued an ordinance that requires the
miningcompanies in tribal areas to: (a) allot 2 % o f equity to oustees and (b) allocate 5% o f net post-tax
profits on peripheral development (radius o f 15 km around mining area). These provisions have been
included in MOUs with several investors, and a Committee headed by the District Collector and including
civil society activists has been established in the Keonjhar district to oversee the implementation. With
Bank support, review of international and local experience with benefit sharing approaches inthe extractive
sector has been completed, complemented by a socio-economic survey to assess the impact o f mining on
the livelihood o ftribal communities inthe Keonjhar district.

 38.      Future challenges. The major challenge i s for Go0 to manage the environmental and social issues
 arising out o f mineral based industrial growth. Inaddition to the adoption o f the new R&R policy, Go0 is
planning, with Bank technical assistance, to undertake a strategic environmental and social assessment o f
the mineral sector and develop an action plan for environmental and social risk mitigation and management,
 including detailed procedures for: (i)the environmental compliance for different categories o f mines, (ii)
mine closure; and (iii)      addressing mining legacy issues. This will provide major inputs to a sustainable
miningsector development strategy for the state and a new miningpolicy, under preparation.

PublicEnterprise Reform

 39.      Progress to date. Go0 has maintained its policy o f exiting commercial businesses and promoting
private sector development. Orissa continues to make steady progress in closing down loss malung
 enterprises and privatizing viable units. Since the previous Operation, assets (land, plant and machinery)
 have been sold in 6 closed enterprises and bidders have been selected for asset sales in another 2
 enterprises. Orissa Timber & Engineering Works i s a closed unit where the former employees have taken
 over the management of the company under an employee buy-out scheme. During2005-06, two enterprises
 have been privatized (IDCOL Re-Rolling Mills and Orissa Co-operative Spinning Mill Tora Bargarh).
 Since the inception of the Public Enterprise reform program in 1999, 30,341 employees have been paid
 VRS, at a cost o f about US$70 million; under the state's Social Safety Net Program (SSNP), more than



 "In May 2005, incollaborationwith the Dept. of Industries,Orissa, WE31held aworkshopon "Implementation Support: Applyng
 the Rapid Results Approach," with the objective of building capacity in multiple government departments associated with the
 effectiveoperationalizationof the SingleWindow facility.

                                                             10

10,000 voluntarily separated workers have been counseled, o f which more than a third have been
redeployed.

40.     Future challenges. In the next phase o f the public enterprise reform program, in addition to
continuing the privatization and restructuring processes, the Onssa Pollution Control Board (OPCB) plans
to work closely with the Department o f Public Enterprises (DPE) to develop the transaction guidelines on
environmental matters. Environmental issues in the PE reform program are particularly important as: (i)
several public enterprises may possess significant environmental problems or liabilities; (ii)
                                                                                             potential buyer
may wish to see environmental issues tackled during the sale o f assetdentities to be privatized; and (iii)
GOO'Spolicy document mentions that it is advisable to have an environmental audit done prior to
disinvestment, privatization or closure, to benchmark the extent o f such liabilities.

Power sector reforms

41.     Progress to date. Reforms initiated inthe mid and late 1990s have improved service quality within
the state, facilitated lucrative power export, and stabilized sector finances.         Reforms included the
unbundling of the vertically-integrated power utility, establishment o f the autonomous Orissa Electricity
Regulatory Commission (OERC), privatization o f distribution (in 1999), and minority (49%) private
participation (with management control) in the major state-owned thermal generation plant. Consumers
have reported improvements in the quality o f service (per 2005 surveys linked to the Investment Climate
Assessment), collections have improved, no budget funds have been provided to the sector since
distribution was privatized in 1999, and revenues are able to cover operating costs. Improvements in
collections and customer mix, and cheaper bulk power supply due to good monsoons and a higher
proportion o f hydropower, have enabled the four distribution companies to pay fully for their bulk
electricity supply and also service some past debts.         Furthermore, consistent with structural changes
mandated under the Electricity Act 2003, G o 0 has notified (inJune 2005) the separation o fbulk supply and
trading function from the transmission activities o f GRIDCO; and the OERC has issued rules for allowing
open access to transmission and distribution networksby eligible consumers and suppliers.

42.      Moving forward, the main challenge for power sector authorities and enterprises will be to
consolidate the above-mentioned achievements and to ramp up efforts to advance sector reforms,
particularly inthe areas o f reducing distribution system losses and expanding rural access. This will require
a more permanent resolution o f the "caretaker" management arrangements imposed on the four distribution
companies (see below), including through concerted efforts by the companies and the Orissa Government.
CESCO, the largest distribution company, had its operating license revoked by OERC in early 2005
because o f the failure o f company owners/management to commit to an acceptable performance
improvement plan. The company has since been managed by an OERC-appointed administrator while
OERC undertakes necessary actions for its re-privatization.         In a separate development, in early 2006
OERC issued license suspension notices to the other three private distribution companies on account o f
their violating license conditions. The distribution companies contested the OERC order in the National
Appellate Tribunal, which has stayed the suspension notice but has appointed special officers that will
manage the day-to-day affairs o f the companies with the support o f an advisory committee. The appointed
special officers are to submit their report to the tribunal inthree months (by September 2006).

                              Table 3: Key Indicators of Power Sector Performance

                                                                      I 2002103   I2003104 I2004105 1




                                                        11

43.       The financial performance o f the power sector i s improving, with all distribution companies
paying 100% o f their bulk supply tariff (BST) bills, the 3 privately-owned companies for more than a year,
and also servicing a part o f their pre-privatization debts. The sector's finances have also benefited from a
revival o f industrial demand and the trading o f surplus hydropower as a result o f good rainfall in 2003/04
and 2004105. Technical and commercial losses, although they are declining, still remain very high. The
business plans approved by OERC are going to be a critical instrument to facilitate reduction o f these high
losses (see Tables 3 and 4).

           Table 4: Targets for AggregateTech & CommercialLosses -OERC approved BusinessPlan


                            2002103        2003104       2004105        200516        2006107        2007108
       NESCO                52.2%          50.4%         43.0%          39.6%         36.1%          33.3%
       WESCO                47.3%          46.2%         40.6%          36.5%         32.3%          28.0%
       SOUTHCO              49.8%          51.6%         45.7%          41.8%         37.7%          34.2%
       CESCO                55.0%          51.1%         49.4%          45.0%         40.4%          35.6%


44.       Payment of electricity bills by Government departments were 89% for the first 11months o f 2005-
06, compared with 81% average for full FY2004-05. Payments to CESCO for the full FY2005-06 are
estimated at 85% in line with the agreed target. Payments are expected to exceed 90% during March with
arrears being cleared prior to the end o f the fiscal year (as was the case in previous years), raising the
overall average for the year above the target o f 90% by March 2006. Furthermore, to improve payments
from municipalities, CESCO has negotiated and concluded electricity supply agreements (MoUs) with its 5
largest municipal customers which specify service and payment obligations o f the parties, and the remedies
available to CESCO to ensure timely payment. These agreements - for the municipalities o f Bhubaneswar,
Cuttack, Puri, Kendrapara and Anugul           - were   signed inApril, 2006.

45.       Business Plans, primarily aimed at defining the obligations and rights o f the four distribution
companies with regard to achieving loss reduction targets and servicing accumulated debts, were approved
by OERC in February 2005 after reviewing submissions by stakeholders. Recourse to the OERC was
necessitated following unsuccessful attempts by GRIDCO and G o 0 to reach a negotiated agreement with
the distribution companies in June, 2004. The implementation o f the business plan had been held up for a
variety o f reasons including review petitions filed by state government and the licensees, and ongoing
arbitration between A E S (the erstwhile owner/operator o f CESCO) and GRIDCO. Initial steps towards
implementation o f the OERC Order on the Business Plan have recently been taken with Go0 reconciling
 and clearing the accumulated dues towards CESCO o f the largest consuming government department
 (PHD)12. G o 0 has also committed to          (1) reconcile and clear the remaining balance by June 30, 2006, (ii)
 securitize CESCO's dues to GRIDCO at zero percent interest (as per OERC order) within one month o f
 OERC announcing the amortization schedule and after talang into account the imminent conclusion o f the
 on-going arbitration proceedings between A E S and GRIDCO; and (iii)amend the subsidiary loan
 agreement between CESCO and GRIDCO (for loans taken for asset creation in CESCO) within one month
 o f OERC announcing the loan amortization schedule. A s mentioned above, going forward, it i s going to be
 important that key stakeholders (the four distribution companies and state government) work together
 towards facilitating the implementation o f the business plans (including any revisions which may become
 necessary from time to time) and reduce the high system losses. This will include the government
 maintaining payment discipline by government-dependent consumers and necessary law & order support to
 distribution companies to reduce power theft; the companies making necessary investments in assets and
 manpower and improving their management, especially the private distribution companies; and OERC
 providing regulatory oversight and guidance


 l2  The reconciliation exercise has revealed serious flaws in billing practiced systems in that the significant outstanding arrears
 being shown by CESCO were reduced to almost zero when scrutinized inthe reconciliation process. These practices will need to be
 better understood and resolved by CESCO, OERC and GOO.

                                                                12

46.      Go0 is also taking actions to strengthen the law and order mechanisms for reducing electricity theft
(as required under the Electncity Act 2003): Five police stations have been notified to specially prosecute
perpetrators o f electricity theft. The High Court has agreed to the government's proposal to designate
existing courts as Special Courts to try electricity theft cases. Go0 will take necessary steps to begin
operationalizingthese theft reduction measures by September 2006. As also required under the Electricity
Act, inMarch 2006 Go0 approved fundingrules for OERC, thereby enhancing its financial autonomy.

47.      Future challenges. While the financial performance has stabilized and OERC has gained valuable
regulatory experience, critical challenges remain. The dominant challenges are associated with (i)   reducing
the very high level o f system losses, (ii)   monitoring the effectiveness and sustainability o f the centrally
supported rural electrification program (70% o f the population, mainly in rural areas do not currently has
access to electricity), and (iii)corporate strengthening o f the state-owned power utilities (that have seen a
serious erosion in their management and human resources as a result of better opportunities elsewhere,
inadequate incentives to attract and retain skilled staff and retirement of experienced staff. Key steps to be
taken over the coming year include: (a) ensuring timely implementation o f approved Business Plans of the
discoms including invoking remedies, conducting independent energy audits, ensuring at least 95%
payment by state government departments, implementing MoUs with urban local bodies, benchmarkingand
publicly disseminating key        performance data, (b) monitoring effectiveness o f the theft reduction
programme, including the special police stations and the designation o f existing courts to try cases
involving electricity theft, (c) establishing a monitoring system to track expansion inrural connectivity and
quality of service, impact on economic growth, cost o f supply (incl. technical and commercial losses),
revenues and `last mile' arrangements, and (d) strengthening the corporate structures o f state-owned power
companies, including the filling up o f vacant management positions and ensuring autonomy o f the
company's board as defined in the corporatization agreement. Over the medium term, there i s need to
prepare and implement a management strengthening, HR and training plan to meet the emerging demands
and challenges inthe sector.

B.FISCALREFORMSAND PUBLICFINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY

48.      The starting point o f the Orissa Socio-Economic Development Program was the fiscal crisis in
Orissa inthe late 199Os, and a fundamental aim o f the program i s to regain fiscal sustainability. The fiscal
reforms component o f the program contains four sub-components: (i)      correction of fiscal imbalance; (ii)
                                                                                                            tax
reforms; (iii) expenditure restructuring; and (iv) financial management and accountability.

Fiscal Correction

49.      Progress to date. Orissa has institutionalized its fiscal correction effort by adopting the Fiscal
Responsibility & Budget Management Act, 2005 (FRBMA), which came into effect in June 2005. The act
stipulates that Go0 shall eliminate its deficit on current account (`revenue account' in the Indian
terminology) and turn it into a surplus and reduce the overall fiscal deficit to less than 3 percent of GSDP
by 2008/09. It also mandates several measures for fiscal transparency. Orissa produces an annual Medium-
Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) which shows how its FRBMA targets will be achieved.

 50.     The overall fiscal health o f the Government o f Onssa has experienced a marked improvement
duringthe period 2000-2005, due to both improved revenue collection and expenditure contraction. During
these five years, the primary fiscal balance has been converted from a deficit o f 6.5% o f GSDP into a
 surplus o f 2.7%. The targets set by the Medium-Term Fiscal Plan approved in August 2004 have all been
met or over-fulfilled. Orissa has managed to raise its own revenue to GDP ratio from 6.3% in 1999/00 to
 9.2% in2004/05. Revenueenhancement has been largely the result o f strengthening o f rationalization o f tax
rates, tax administration and improved tax compliance, aided by strong anti-corruption actions.
 Expenditure contraction over the past five years has been achieved mainly through wage bill restraint and
 closure/reform of loss making public enterprises. As a result o f consistent and sustained fiscal correction,
 the state no longer faces liquidity constraints as it did until 2003. There was not a single day in 2004105
 when Go0 was in overdraft with the Reserve Bank of India, in striking contrast to the pre-2004 period. As a


                                                        13

result o f the reforms implemented, fiscal space i s begmning to be created for the state to strengthen its
 developmental efforts, both in terms o f increasing allocations in the state budget for high priority
 investments and in terms o f more fully utilizing central and external resources available for ongoing
 programs.

 51.        After increasing since the mid-l990s, the debt stock to GSDP ratio has now begun to decline
 although it remains high. The ratio o f interest payments to total revenue has declined even more rapidly
 (Figure 2), as a result o f debt swaps arranged with the Government o f India during 2002-05, and additional
 debt pre-payment by G o 0 during 2004-05, using OSEDL-I financing. G o 0 has pre-paid highcost loans of
 about US$ 250 million in 2004/05, and interest relief from debt swapping i s estimated at US$25 million in
 2004/05 alone.

                                     Table 5: Fiscal Summary, 1999/00to 2006/07

                                                                Fiscal Summary:199912000-2006107
 Per cent GSDP                         I999100   2000101  2001102   2002103    2003104   2004105     2005106    2006107
                                       Actuals   Actuals  Actuals   Actuals    Actualsia Actualsla     RE         BE
 Revenue                                 15.2%    17.8%     16.3%      18.7%     17.5%     20.2%      22.3%         22.2%
    State's own revenue                   6.3%      7.4%     7.3%       8.8%      8.2%      9.2%       9.3%          9.3%
    Central resources                     9.0%    10.4%      9.0%       9.9%      9.4%     11.0%      13.0%         12.9%
 Non-interestexpenditure                 21.7%    20.5%     18.9%      20.2%      16.8%    17.5%      18.9%         19.1%
    Current Exp.exclinterest             18.7%    16.9%     16.3%      17.3%      14.9%    15.7%      17.5%         17.4%
       01w salary bill                   10.1%      9.8%     8.4%       9.4%      7.3%      7.3%       7.1%           6.4%
       01w pension                        1.8%      2.1%     2.3%       2.8%       2.2%     2.2%        2.5%          2.8%
     olw capitaloutlay                    2.1%      2.2%     2.0%       2.4%       1.6%      1.8%       1.7%          1.9%
     01w net lending                      1.0%      1.4%     0.6%       0.4%       0.4%     0.0%       -0.3%         -0.2%
  Primary Balance                        -6.5%     -2.7%     -2.6%      -1.5%      0.7%      2.7%       3.4%          3.0%
  Interest Payments                       3.2%      5.9%     6.5%        6.6%      5.3%      5.8%       5.6%          5.5%
  Overall balance (Fiscal Deficit)       -9.7%     -8.6%     -9.2%      -8.0%     -4.6%     -3.1%      -2.2%         -2.4%
  Memo items:
  Salary1Own revenue                     161%       133%     115%       106%       89%        79%        76%           69%
  lnteresff Revenue                      21.0%     33.1%    40.2%      35.1%      30.3%     28.6%      25.2%         24.6%

  Salary1Rev. Exp (net of interest &
  pension)                               59.5%     66.6%     60.1%     64.3%      57.0%     53.8%      47.3%         43.7%
  Current (Revenue)BalanceiGSDP          -6.7%      -5.0%    -6.5%      -5.2%     -2.6%     -1.3%      -0.8%          -0.7%
  Current balance1RevenueReceipts       -43.7%    -27.9%    -40.1%     -28.0%    -15.1%     -6.4%      -3.7%          -3.1%
  OutstandingDebt/Revenue Receipts       311%       307%     343%       338%      336%     293.3%     253.8%       246.0%
  OutstandingDebffGSDP                     47%       55%      56%        63%      58.9%     59.2%      56.5%         54.5%
I GSDP                                   386.29   387.28    432.93     439.74     538.30   576.38      634.02        697.4:
  a/ Actual figures have been adjust    to exclude impact of one-time shocks, including securitizationof power sector liabil es in

  was 2.4%ofGSDP in2004-05.
  /b includesoffbudgetborrowingand securitizationofpower sector dues.




                                                                14

                                           Figure 2: Debt and Interest Burden


                      DebffGSDP(Yd                                            lnterest/F&venue (YO)
    80% 7                          72%    MTFP'04
    70%                                                     45%
                                                            40%                                   MTFP '04
                                                                                             33.3%
                                        MTFP '05            35%
                                                            30%
    30%                                                     25%
                                                            20%
                                                              15%
                                                             x)%                                MTFP '05
                                                              50/.
                                                              0%




52.        Future prospects. The challenge now i s to sustain the fiscal stabilization achieved so far. G o 0
aims to strengthen the quality o f fiscal adjustment by stepping up capital investments more rapidly than had
been envisaged one year ago, so as to achieve its growth objectives. The updated MTFP (2005-10) targets a
consistent improvement in the current balance, along with accelerated recovery and growth o f public
investment, from 1.8% of GSDP in 2004-05 towards 3% by 2008/09. Figure 3 presents a comparison o f
key indicators between the original MTFP (2003-08) projections and the actual outcome until 2004105,
along with the correctionpath that i s projected inthe updated MTFP.

53.        Budget 2006-07. The Budget 2006-07, which was presented to the Onssa Legislature on February
14, 2006, targets an even lower fiscal deficit than projected in the MTFP, reflecting Goo's aim to achieve
the revenue projections o f the Twelfth Finance Commission, which were incorporated in the MTFP.
Presenting the budget, the Finance Minister noted that having successfully addressed the macro fiscal
imbalance in the state, the main focus moving forward would be on "translating outlays into outcomes",
through increasing emphasis on results orientation o f public expenditures.

                                      Figure 3: K e y Indicators of Fiscal Correction


                   Fiscal Deficit (%GSDP)                                Salary /States own revenue (%)
     rZ.O%,                                              I  180.0%-
     13.0%1                                                 160.0%-
                                                            140.0%-
      8.0% -                                                P O . O % --
      6.0% -                                                X)O.O%
                                                            80.0%-
      4.0%-                                                 60.O% -
      2.0% -                                                                                   I     MTFP'05
                                                          I                                                          1I
                                                              O.O%.i        ,  I    1  ,    ,  !,    ,   ,  I  I  I




 Tax reforms

 54.       Progress to date Orissa's own taxes provide 70% o f its own revenues, and increasing the own
 revenue/GSDP ratio has been an important part o f the reform program. Orissa has been successful in this
 regard, with an increase inthe rate from 6.3% in 1999100 to 9.2% in2004105, on the back of a series o f tax
 reforms. The year 2004-05 witnessed a record 20% rate o f real growth in the state's own tax revenues,
 while non-tax revenue grew by about 10% in real terms. This was largely the result of tightening and
 strengtheningo f tax administration and enforcement, including computerization o f sales tax administration
 and strengthening deterrence against evasion throughstrong anti-corruption initiatives. Go0 introduced the
 Value Added Tax (VAT) on April 1,2005.



                                                          15

55.       Future challenges. Over the next two years, G o 0 plans to further advance its revenue agenda,
through the following moves. In 2005106, the focus i s on establishing standard land valuation reports as the
basis for valuation in determination o f stamp duty and registration fees, simplifying procedures for the
conversion o f agricultural land for other use, and amending relevant provisions o f Registration Act to
disallow registration o f transactions where land has been under-valued. In 2006107, Go0 plans to focus on
the enactment o f the Orissa Excise Act, 2006, a comprehensive law relating to alcoholic liquor and other
intoxicants, replacing the Bihar and Orissa Excise Act, 1915; and it will rationalize and revise the cess on
agncultural land.

Expenditurerestructuring

56.       Progress to date. From a situation in which developmental expenditures had been squeezed to a
minimumas a result of the large and growing salary bill and interest burden, expenditure composition has
begun to improve. The ratio o f the salary bill to the state's own revenues - selected by G o 0 as a key
indicator o f its own efforts to address the structural imbalance - has been reduced from over 150% in
1999/00 to below 80% in 2004105. Capital outlays, after having declined over the previous two years,
increased by 18% in real terms in 2004105, equivalent to 0.2 percentage point of GSDP. The economic
composition o f recurring expenditures, net o f interest and pension payments, improved in 2004/05 as
compared to the previous year, with the share o f salaries going down fiom 57% to 54%. The sectoral
composition o f government expenditure (net o f interest and pension) shifted slightly in favor o f human
development, including education, health, drinking water supply, social protection and anti-poverty
programs; the combined share o f these sectors increased from 42.1% in 2003104 to 44.1% in 2004105.
Pension reforms are on the agenda, beginning with the compilation o f data and projection o f pension
liabilities under alternative scenarios, an exercise that has begun inearnest inMay 2005.

57.       Future challenges. G o 0 will continue to face important expenditure challenges in the coming
years as it tries to promote high-priority development spending while managing the large debt overhang.
The MTFP envisages a slow but steady shift in the economic composition o f public expenditure in Orissa,
away from interest payments, salaries, subsidies, and loans and guarantees to unviable public enterprises;
towards capital outlays and non-wage operations and maintenance in infrastructure, education and health.
Specific challenges include: (i)    managing the salary bill so that priority areas o f development are not
affected by staff shortages (including teachers, health workers, environmental specialists); (ii)  solving the
problem o f chronic under-funding o f maintenance; (iii)       identifying and addressing the growing pension
burden; and (iv) raising the share o f elementary education spending within total education spending by
rationalizinghigher education subsidies

Financial Management and Accountability

 58.      Improving public financial accountability i s a central part o f the reform program in Orissa. Based
 on the findings and recommendations o f the State Financial Accountability Assessment, 200413, Go0
prepared and approved a detailed Development Action Plan (DAP) in August, 2004. Since then, several
measures have been initiated which, along with fiscal reform measures, have begun to bear fruit, as
 evidenced for instance by the fact that the State did not resort to overdraft or advances fiom RBI during
 2004/05, for the first time in22 years.

 59.      Budget formulation and transparency. Go0 has issued clear guidance while formulating the
 annual budgets for 2005/06 and 2006/07, aligned to the MTFP and focusing on curtailment o f unproductive
 expenditures, enhancing revenues and speedy completion o f priority investment schemes. Identification o f
 priority investment projects for completion which was carried out as part of a Zero-Based Investment
 Review exercise during 2002-03 and 2003-04, has since become a legal requirement under the FRBMAct;
 o f the identifiedprojects, 19 were completed in2004-05 and 66 in 2005-06. The MTFP, the annual budget
 and updated summarized accounting information have been published on Go0 Website. Budget at a


 l3The SFAA was conductedby the World Bank and DFID in collaborationwith GOO.

                                                         16

Glance, 2005/06, provided enhanced levels o f information on the state o f Onssa's finances, including the
size and costs of establishment, details o f debt and contingent liabilities; pension reform work underway
will allow G o 0 to also disclose actuarial value o f pension obligations in future years. Multi-year medium
term expenditure plans incorporatingperformance targets are being developed in key social sectors. Going
forward, these will form the basis for budget formulation, providing closer linkages between the annual
budget and the desired development outcomes. Actual spending was more than 95% o f the targeted outlay
under the Annual Plan in 2004-05 and in 2005-06, compared with only 82% during 1997-2002, indicating
more realistic planning consistent with available resources and approved annual borrowing ceiling. Fiscal
marksmanship and transparency requirements o f the Fiscal Responsibility & Budget Management Act,
2005, have further institutionalizedthe reform process.

60.      Budget execution and monitoring. Go0 has taken several steps to improve budget execution and
monitoring. The need for maintaining good financial discipline has been recognized and detailed circulars
have been issued, assuring incentives o f increased allocations for better financial management at the
Departmental level. Utilization o f central assistance has improved significantly, as shown by the fact that
utilization certificates submitted during the year, as a ratio o f the amount pending at the beginning o f the
year, has risen from 68% in 2004-05 to 73% in 2005-06. Going forward, the focus will be on (a) setting up
a tax research unit in the Department o f Finance; and (b) better monitoring o f budget performance by
preparation o f variance analysis.

61.      Financial accounting. Computerization o f the State's accounting function has been taken up on
priority basis. Work on computerization and networking the state's 30 District Treasuries, 6 Special
Treasuries and 125 Sub Treasuries has commenced and will be rolled out in a phased manner over the next
two years. The process o f reconciliation o f departmental accounts with the Accountant General's Office has
been made more frequent and i s beingmonitoredjointly by the AG's Office and the Finance Department.

62.      Cash management. Revised instructions have been issued by the Finance Department on approval
and release o f funds, ensuring more predictability in the flow o f funds to spending departments. Tighter
controls have been put in place on withdrawals from `civil deposits' and transfer o f funds out o f the
Treasury into temporary accounts. Close monitoring o f the submission o f Utilization Certificates for central
plan and centrally sponsored programs has resulted in a doubling o f the utilization o f such central funds.
However, there still remain substantial Go1funds for which UCs are still pending and this will be an area
 where continued and sustained efforts will be required. Revision o f the Budget Manual, and o f Orissa
 General Financial Rules, are underway.

 63.     Audit responsiveness.     G o 0 has taken several steps, including the formation o f departmental
 committees and an apex committee at the Chief Secretary level to monitor progress in responding to the
 statutory external audit. Joint meetings o f representatives o f the Auditor General's Office, the concerned
 departments and the Finance Department have proved to be fruitful and will be continued. Progress in
 disposal o f pending audit paragraphs, inspection reports and recommendations o f the Public Accounts
 Committee (PAC) will be closely monitoredand considered as a key indicator o f improvement.

 64.     Accounts of Local Bodies and Public Enterprises. With the increasing responsibilities and roles o f
 urban local bodies (ULBs), attention i s being focused on their financial management systems and capacities
 that would enable them to enhance own revenues and leverage funds from the market to meet the
 infrastructure financing gaps. G o 0 has agreed to pilot in selected two ULBs, improved modem financial
 management systems as demonstration models o f excellence.           As part o f the wider reforms in public
 enterprises, G o 0 has focused on ensuring that accounts and audits o f all operating enterprises are brought
 up to date. Reductioninthe backlog o fthe audits will be a key indicator o fprogress and monitored closely.
 Orissa is probably the first Indian state to publish selected updated month-end summarized financial
 statements on the Web.




                                                       17

Reducing Corruption

65.      Progress to Date. As part o f its effort to strengthen public accountability, G o 0 i s supportive o f
anti-corruption initiatives. The Vigilance Department o f h s s a has a well established reputation for
competence in enforcement: Orissa has one o f the highest levels o f registered cases on corruption in India
with 1659 cases being registered between 1997 and 2002. This compares to 2722 cases in Maharashtra,
1238 inKarnataka and 167 in Bihar. A further indicator o f anti-corruption enforcement is the highnumber
of anti-corruption cases (39) filed against high-ranking officials. Strengthened anti-corruption initiatives are
boosting government revenues as a result o f improved compliance with tax laws and reduced degree o f tax
evasion.

66.      Recognizing that prevention and public awareness are key areas that need to be strengthened in
order to institutionalize accountability, G o 0 has developed an anti-corruption action plan covering
measures to strengthen prevention, enforcement and public awareness; this plan has been finalized and
approved in December, 2005. The Anti-Corruption Action Plan includes important actions to reform the
procurement system to enhance transparency and competition, including through the implementation of e-
procurement.

67.      Future Challenges.       Improving the enforcement function needs to be accompanied by
improvements in transparency and accountability o f decision making. In 2005106 Go0 intends to focus on
supporting initiatives to increase public scrutiny o f Government decisions. G o 0 has recently enacted a new
Right to Information Act which provides an overarching legal framework for ensuring transparency and
accountability in the workmg o f every public institution and authority. The Act demands that public
authorities including Government departments maintain easily accessible information on officials, budgets,
expenditures, disbursements and decision making processes. The challenge remains to develop effective
institutions to implement the Act. In this context, G o 0 has initiated a pilot project that aims to develop
suitable information databases; under this project, nine departments will pilot designing monitoring and
evaluation systems in specific districts based around indicators that are easily understood by citizens. The
implementation o f the Act will also provide a good opportunity to reform the relationship between service
providers and clients and support better monitoring systems. G o 0 further intends to develop citizens'
feedback systems through the use o f extensive surveys and the development o f citizen report cards on
specific public services. Strengthening thejudicial system through the establishment o f Special Courts to be
able to adequately process corruption cases i s also an imperative. There are nearly 2000 cases currently
pending with the courts and G o 0 intends to both strengthen Courts and establish a better case load
management system inthe coming year.

68.      Public Procurement. More transparent procurement processes will also help reduce corruption.
The Government o f Orissa, with technical support from World Bank procurement specialists, conducted an
assessment o f the strengths and weaknesses in the system and practices o f public procurement in Orissa in
2004. On the basis o f this assessment, a draft medium term action plan i s under consideration. G o 0 i s
seeking to move rapidly towards implementing e-procurement to achieve transparency and fair competition.
It has appointed a consultant (NISG)   to conduct a study to clarify the current Information Technology (IT)
status o f G o 0 and to assess various business models o f e-procurement. The following steps will take the
procurement reforms agenda forward: (i)      Government approval o f Procurement Reform Action Plan; and
(ii)completion ofNISGstudy, includingworkshops to identify specific demand of the suppliers, and
preparation o f Request for Proposal for technical assistance to implement e-procurement.

C. PUBLICSERVICEDELIVERY AND HUMANDEVELOPMENT

69.      Strengthening service delivery i s a key factor for improvingdevelopment outcomes in the State, as
also reflected in GOO'SVision 2020. The public service delivery and human development component
focuses on improvements in the effectiveness o f education, health and social protectiodanti-poverty
programs through institutionalreforms, better use o fmodem information technology and of poverty data for



                                                       18

policy making, with increased emphasis on outcome monitoring and program evaluation.

Cross-cutting reforms to improveservice delivery

70.      Progress to date. There has been considerable progress in taking forward service delivery reforms
usinge-governance and InformationTechnology applications. An ITpolicyhas been set out in2004 and the
Orissa Computer Application Centre has been designated as the Directorate for Information Technology
and is developing a vision for e-governance in the state. The Transport Department i s talung forward the
computerization o f dnving licenses, modernization o f border check posts and motor vehicle registration, as
part of a wider action plan for e-governance in the transport sector. G o 0 also has an ambitious plan to
restructure municipal service delivery, involving computerization o f property taxes, GIS mapping, and
registration o f births and deaths. This i s being piloted in the capital city o f Bhubaneswar. E-governance i s
also being used to monitor progress, both physical and financial, o f poverty alleviation schemes by the
Department o f Panchayati Raj. More limited progress has been made in strengthening the local bodies;
there remains a need to have a comprehensive strategy to strengthen local bodies, including stronger
incentives for performance and a capacity building strategy for local body officials. Computerization o f
land records has been completed in 151 out o f 172 tehsils, with Records o f Rights being made available to
all land owners. Digitization o f cadastral maps has begun and a process for updating these records will need
to be designed.

71.      An extremely important initiative to strengthen service delivery through the devolution of
responsibilities to the local community i s the recent decision o f Go0 to empower Village Education
Committees to certify teacher attendance in elementary schools. Go0 i s also piloting the devolution o f
runningthe mid-day meal scheme inschools to women's self-help groups. While progress is beingmade in
strengthening the elected rural local bodies (panchayati raj institutions), there remains a need to have a
comprehensive capacity buildingstrategy for rural local body officials.

72.      Future challenges. There i s a clear need to establish appropriate institutional mechanisms to
vision, co-ordinate, manage and monitor existing and new administrative reform initiatives. There has been
considerable progress in this area in the last few months as the General Administration Department (GAD)
has been empowered to take the lead, and a senior civil servant has been appointed to exclusively manage
this process. G o 0 is in the process o f designing a comprehensive and overarching Orissa Modernizing
Government Initiative (see Box 1 below), which aims to strengthen the capacity o f the GAD, key line
departments and district administration, to assess and implement reforms related to improving public sector
capacity and service delivery.

  ._ _                                        -    .. _..   -                                                          -
                                    Box 1:Orissa ModernizingGovernment Initiative

The Orissa Modernizing Government Initiative (OMGI) i s a Program whose objective i s to support a series o f cross
cutting and department specific reform processes aimed at improving the efficiency, transparency and accountability
of government in delivering better public services, particularly for the poor. The program will comprise o f a pool o f
Technical Assistance that can be utilized by Departments and training institutions to develop methodologies and tools,
to implement reforms and to strengthenmonitoring and evaluation systems.

 Selected areas o f reform envisaged under the OMGI include: improved service delivery and grievance redressal;
Human Resource Management and the roll out o f HRMIS; citizen centric processes in all departments; business
process re-engineering including records management, review o f rules o f executive business and secretariat manual;
web based information management systems and results based M&E; repository o f good practices in development
 schemes andprograms; and perfonnance appraisal and monitoring for individuals, organizations and districts.

 Orissa is the first state in India to articulate a comprehensive medium anti-corruption action plan The Action Plan is
 divided along three broad categories; i.e. reforms that support better institutional transparency and accountability
particularly by developing better systems and procedures that prevent corruption; reforms that support better
 enforcement and that serve as a deterrent to corruption; and processes that can generate better public awareness

..-. .... . . .
necessary to underpin..bothprevention....and enforcement and make changes sustainable.
 . ...                               ....~. ..... ... ... .. -  . . .-". ..     ..    ... . ...
                                                                                           ..   .~        . . .. .. . ...




                                                             19

Reforms inpublic administration

73.      Progress tu date. For years, the public sector in Onssa acted as an employer o f first resort, leading
to a government work force proportionately much larger than in other Indian states. G o 0 has already taken
a number o f key steps to rightsize the government work force. With respect to regular employees, 75% o f
vacant regular posts have been identified and a Government Order issued for their elimination. More than
15,000 such posts have been abolished during 2004-06. A recruitment freeze has also been inplace since
mid-2001, with exemptions in case o f demonstrated need for doctors, nurses, primary teachers, and police.
The salary bill o f temporary workers has been reduced significantly during the past two years, from Rs.
0.32 billion in2003-04 to an estimatedRs. 0.15 billionin 2005-06. More than 1800 regular staff have been
redeployedfrom unnecessary posts to fill critical vacancies.

74.      Although the imperative to provide more space for developmental spending makes it essential to
reduce the share o f the salary bill in total spending, it i s important that the reduction in the number o f
employees does not occur in an arbitrary manner. Accordingly, G o 0 undertook a series o f organizational
reviews and zero-based functional audits o f line departments over the past few years; and follow-up i s
tahng place. For instance, in the health sector (see para 78) Go0 has taken a number o f steps identified by
the Organizational Review conducted in 2003-04, including the abolition o f some departmental posts,
conversion o f paramedical staff to district cadres, and posting o f Indian Systems doctors to single doctor
primary health care centers on a pilot basis, inorder to mitigate the short supply o f doctors inrural areas.

75.      Future Challenges. The establishment o f a comprehensive civil service data base linked with the
pay roll i s an extremely important step towards better control and management of human resources. G o 0
has begun the process o f establishing such a system and hopes to have a fully functioning data base within
two years. There i s currently a freeze on recruiting new staff although an agreement exists that staffing
shortages inkey priority areas (Health, Education and the Police) can be met; and this is occurring mainly
through contractual appointments. A balance needs to be struck between banning recruitment o f new staff
and protecting and expanding staff in priority areas o f development including traditionally ignored areas
such as environmental protection. Further, the Government intends to develop an equitable staffing policy
that will be support better staffing o f underserved departments and districts as well as develop a policy o f
 staff redeployment and mechanisms to identify and deploy surplus labor through the establishment o f a
central database o f surplus employees. These actions will promote better cadre and human resource
management and improve service delivery by providing underserved units and areas with more service
providers. These actions will require considerable administrative and political commitment.

Health

 76.     Progress to date. Onssa has experienced a significant decline inthe infant mortality rate over the
past five years, but it i s still somewhat worse than the all-India average. The state continues to lag behind
 significantly in terms o f malnutrition among children and proportion o f births attended by trained persons.
 Orissa also continues to have one o f the highest burdens o f disease inIndia, mainly due to infectious disease
 and malnutrition. Malaria remains a major problem although the number o f deaths from malaria has fallen
 from 350 in 1997 to 234 in 2003. Just over half the districts in Orissa are covered by EMCP (Expanded
 Malaria Control Program).

 77.     The strategy o f G o 0 to accelerate improvements in health outcomes consists o f actions that have
 been initiated along a number o f dimensions including: (i)  reorganization o f the HealthDepartment to better
 align the supply o f health personnel with the demand for health care; (ii)rationalization o f drug
 management to ensure adequate supply o f essential medicines in rural areas; and (iii)prioritizing o f
 budgetary resources to maximize the cost-effectiveness o f public health interventions. Currently, the largest
 category o f expenditure across all levels o f public health care is for salaries - more than 85%. A
 comprehensive Onssa Health Sector Plan (OHSP), aligned closely with the National Rural Health Mission



                                                       20

strategy, i s finalized and it will form the basis for multi-year DFIDgrant support for the sector.

78.     Departmental Reorganization. G o 0 has implemented a number o f short-term recommendations
identified by the Organizational Review conducted in 2002, including: the abolition o f some departmental
posts and conversion o f paramedical staff to district cadres. Additional actions expected to be taken over
the next 12 months include: handing over o f some PHCs to NGOs to manage, introduction o f user
satisfaction surveys, establishment o f advisory bodies at health facilities with community representation,
introduction o f district level planning processes, and posting o f Indian Systems doctors to single doctor
primary health care centers on a pilot basis, inorder to mitigate the short supply o f doctors inrural areas.

79.      Drug Management.          A centralized drug procurement system is in place and operational, an
essential drug list has been compiled, standard treatment guidelines have been developed and are being
utilized by health facilities, and a computerized drug inventory management system i s functional. Although
the drug budget remains substantially underfunded, these actions collectively have resulted in cost savings,
and improved availability and quality o f essential drugs within the available budget. Standard treatment
protocols are under preparation and will soon be made available to health facilities. Starting in 2006-07, the
drug budget i s expected to be significantly enhanced, with the help o f earmarked additional central grants
awarded by the Twelfth Finance Commission.

80.      Future Challenge. Go0 has increased the pace o f high level attention to MDG-related health
outcomes and health sector performance in the state. The Departments o f Finance and Health are worlung
together more closely on several fronts to strengthen accountability and produce results. This includes three
immediate approaches. First, the two departments will agree on a framework for assessing effectiveness,
equity, and efficiency o f government health expenditures (including both on and o f f budget elements) and
initiate its implementation. Second, the Department o f Health (DOH)will develop specific action plans for
system strengthening investments and innovative approaches to improving health service delivery
performance in the context o f the sector support program being developed with DflD support. Third, a
multi-sectoral strategy for accelerating reductions in infant, young child, and maternal mortality i s being
developed under the auspices o f the multi-department committee now chaired by the Finance Secretary and
coordinated by the Health Secretary. An initial Bank mission to explore options for multisectoral
 investments to reduce child and maternal Mortality visited Orissa in February 2006 and positively assessed
the scope for such investments.

Education

 81.      Progress to date. Orissa has been malung significant progress in expanding educational access at
 all levels over the past few years. More than 80% o f children in the age group 6-14 are now attending
 school, and adult literacy has increasedby some 14percentage points over the past decade (Figure 4). Drop
 out rates have also started declining, which i s probably a combined result o f mid-day meals provision and
 inputs to improve teaching quality and supervision under the centrally sponsored program for
 universalization o f elementary education (called SSA). Yet, the state needs to make more efforts to achieve
 further learning achievements gains. In fact, aggregate state-level figures, including quality indicators such
 as teacher-pupil ratios, hide considerable differences; females and scheduled castedtribes seem to be
 particularly disadvantaged when it comes to educational attainments and significant regional disparities
 exist.

 82.      Composition and Efficiency of Education Spending. The current state public budget for education
 amounts to just over 3% o f GSDP. Over half the education budget i s spent on elementary education and
 another quarter on secondary education (nearly half o f high schools are in the private sector). At all levels
 over 90 percent o f public expenditures goes to teacher and staff salaries. To try to mobilize additional
 resources Go0 has enhanced the allocation of state counterpart finding to fully utilize available resources
 from Go1and external donors. Given the limited success o f `grants-in-aid' in enhancing equity and quality,
 Go0 has taken a number o f further steps to limit aid to private institutions, and censure them for non-
 performance. There has been a complete fkeeze on the number o f educational institutions receiving such


                                                         21

grants, while aid has been discontinued in the case o f 21 high schools where not a single student has passed
the final examination in the last three years. Moreover, for all institutions that became eligible for grants,
post-1994 salary-based grants have been replaced by block grants, which are 40 percent o f the pre-revised
1994 salary scales. Go0 has taken two other measures to utilize the available resources more efficiently.
First, the reorganization action plan o f the Department o f School and Mass Education has been finalized.
This plan includes abolishing non-essential posts, and redeploying staff to those areas where more support
i s required. Vacant non-teaching positions have already been abolished. A second measure that Go0 has
taken to reduce cost i s recruitment o f para-teachers, who now constitute one-third o f the total elementary
education teachers inthe state.

83.        Accountability and Teacher Management. Inrecognition o f the fact that developing methods to
deliver education services to remote and less populated areas will go a long way to improving education
outcomes, G o 0 i s implementinga number o f institutionalreforms aimed at enhancing accountability. These
include the involvement o f user groups (village education committees) in school infrastructure
development, enrolment drives, awareness generation on education, and preparation o f village educational
development plans. To strengthen teacher management, village education committees have recently been
empowered to certify teacher attendance in elementary schools. A District Information System on
Education and an Education Management Information System have been established, which generate data
on almost all key educational indicators on an annual basis, providing a rational basis for outcome and
demand oriented deployment o f teachers. Go0 has framed a policy to (i)devolve recruitment o f teachers
on contractual appointment to the Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), and (ii)strengthen performance
incentives for such teachers through a performance-linked system o f upgradationo f para-teachers to `junior
teachers' and o f the latter to regular teachers. It i s committed to ensure, during 2006-07, that every rural
school and Gram Panchayat (village level elected local body) would display information on resources
allocated for that school, and would also display names and pictures o f the teachers postedinthat particular
school, and the names o f the VEC members responsible for that school. An independent evaluation o f the
impact of these measures would be conducted in2007-08.

                                                Figure 4: EducationEnrollment
 Educationalenrollmentshave 6een improving in Orissa in                  ,, ,
            recentyears.  .......................                          . ...........6ut the state continues to Lzg 6ehind
                                                                                          nationalaverages.


      100,                                                               70




          1981                  1992                   2003                             1991                     2001
All data from Censusof India, except2003 enrollment rateswhlch are fromthe OnssaPnmary Education Programme Authonty (OPEPA)



 84.       Future Challenges. Go0 recognizes that among the key challenges facing the education sector in
 Ollssa are ensuring quality at all levels o f education, enhancing the employability o f those who complete 10
years of schooling, and improving service delivery in education. In order to achieve these objectives, Go0
plans to: (a) introduce a new policy for teacher management, including performance based promotion o f
para-teachers to `junior teachers' and the latter to regular teachers; (b) implement the departmental
reorganization plan at the state and district levels with clearly defined roles and clear lines o f coordination
 and accountability; (c) conduct an achievement survey in Grades 4 and 5 to establish benchmarks for
 teacher and student performance; (d) conduct a public expenditure survey inelementary educationto assess

                                                                     22

the quality o f expenditure and cost-effectiveness o f different interventions and inputs; (e) conduct a third
party survey to evaluate the effectiveness o f VEC certification o f teacher attendance; and (0 ensure that
every primary and middle school displays information on funds allocated to elementary education, and also
displays names and photographs o f teachers and names o f VEC members. Improving governance and
accountability in the education sector will also require strengthening the school inspection system,
especially ensuring that the district inspectors visit each school the mandated number o f times. Also, VECs
and GPs will need to be supported with training and assistance so that they have the capacity to effectively
fulfill their roles ineducational governance.

Poverty monitoring and evaluation

85.       A multi-sectoral Poverty Task Force (PTF) led by the Onssa Development Commissioner, is
mandated to develop a comprehensive anti-poverty strategy to promote pro-poor growth, rationalize the
main anti-poverty programs, monitor implementation o f policies, and communicate to a broad range o f
stakeholders within as well as outside o f the government the content and impact o f programs and policies.
The PTF has also been entrusted by G o 0 with the responsibility for poverty monitoring and evaluation o f
anti-poverty programs. To accomplish monitoring and evaluation tasks more effectively, a comprehensive
poverty and human development monitoring system (PHDMS) has been set-up by the PTF. One o f the
main objectives o f this system i s to track the impact o f reforms on the public, and strengthen GOO'S
capacity to design pro-poor policies by more clearly linlung expenditures with outcome measures. The
framework for PHMDS includes three sub-components: (i)strengthening capacity in the Directorate o f
Economics and Statistics, including the devolution o f data entry to the district offices; (ii)improving
institutional capacity for poverty analysis and developing a comprehensive baseline of poverty and
development indicators; and (iii)   expenditure tracking o f selected anti-poverty schemes. Recently, in June
2005, the activities o f PHDMS have been consolidated through the establishment o f a registered society
underthe PTF, calledthe Poverty andHumanDevelopmentMonitoring Agency.

86.       Statistical strengthening. The capacity o f the Directorate o f Economics and Statistics (DES) to
collect and process socio-economic data has been appreciably strengthened. Large scale surveys
implementedby the DES - "Establishment o f an Agency for Reporting Agricultural Statistics", "Fruits and
Vegetables" survey, "Village Index Card Scheme" survey, "Annual Survey o f Industry" which were
previous processed in the UNIX environment have now been transferred into Windows environment and
processed. Data entry, verification and validation are now done using CSPRO software, and tables
 generated using STATA software. These actions have substantially decreased the time needed for data
processing (in some instances from several years to only a few months). Until 2003, the estimation o f
 Gross/Net State Domestic Product and EconomicRurpose Classification o f Onssa Government Budget
were being done manually. From 2003-04 onwards, processing was computerized using MS EXCEL
 software. Based on these, several publications "Orissa Budget inBrief', "Report on Estimates o f SDP from
 1950-51to 2002-03 at 1993-94 base" have been prepared ahead o f schedule.

 87.      Computerization o f district DES offices and development o f appropriate data-entry software i s in
progress. In particular, starting in June 2005, with the financial support from DFID, computers are being
 placed in the DES Headquarters and district offices (district DES offices did not have computers to date).
 With the help o f the WorldBank and DFID,extensive training is being conducted for the statistical officers
 from DES headquarters district offices. It i s envisaged that initial data entry will be devolved to the district
 offices, once the capacity o f these offices to handle computerized data processing has been sufficiently
 strengthened.

 88.      Improving institutional capacityfor poverty analysis and developinga comprehensivebaseline of
poverty and development indicators. Go0 has published the Orissa Human Development Report 2004,
 which presents detailed analysis o f determinants and correlates o f poverty and key human development
 indicators often disaggregated at the district level. This provides a baseline o f poverty and human
 development indicators. Going forward, and following improvements in data collection processes, field
 work for the State sample o f the 61" quinquennial NSS survey has been completed in July, 2005 and data


                                                        23

entry and verification completed in November 2005. The Central sample o f these data will be the basis for
estimating progress in poverty reduction across India in the last decade and the State sample will provide
the cross-check and will allow for developing a more disaggregated picture o f poverty. This is a very
important round, as the previous quinquennial round (Round 55) on which the most recent estimates o f
poverty are based had been plagued by issues o f incomparability and hence there has been lack o f
consensus on the degree o fprogress inpoverty reductioninIndia in 1990s.

89.       TrackingExpenditure on Social Protection Programs. An ExpenditureTraclung Study, focusing
on rural employment programs and child feeding programs, was launched by Go0 with Bank support in
early 2005. This study combines; (i) tracking exercise to identify any leakages and delays in fund flows;
                                        a
and (ii) facility and beneficiary surveys to examine other inefficiencies inimplementation.The purpose is to
go beyond simple tracking o f expenditures, and identify issues that hamper the delivery o f services under
the two programs.


              IV.          BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S STRATEGY

A. LINKTO COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY

90.       The India CAS, approved by the Board on August 26, 200414, highlights support for poor and
reforming states as one o f the major thrusts o f the Bank's assistance strategy in India. Ollssa i s one o f
India's poorest states and also one o f the most consistent reformers inrecent years, thus making it an ideal
candidate for continued Bank support.       The design o f this Operation i s also mapped closely to the India
 CAS and it supports key CAS-period outcomes identified, including:

      Fiscal policy, financial management and public accountability: improved fiscal position and public
      expenditure management in at least 4 states; improved composition o f public expenditure insupport o f
      growth and povertyreduction in at least 4 states;
      Economic growth-enhancing reforms: improved commercial operation and financial viability o f the
      energy sector in Bank-assisted states; increased productivity o f irrigation water in at least 3 states;
      reduction inthe cost o f doing business in at least 4 states;
  0   Public administration and service delivery: improved accountability, efficiency and transparency o f
      government operations inat least 4 states;
      Poverty and human development: improved accountability to the rural poor, women and other
      vulnerable groups in at least 4 states; improved quality o f elementary education and the health sector
      instatesreceivingBanksupport.

 B. COLLABORATION WITH OTHER DONORS

 91.      The Bank's policy dialogue and technical work have been carried out in close collaboration with
 the UK Department of International Development (DFID), for which Orissa i s a focus state. The DFID
 program includes TA for improving business regulation, technical and financial support to the Public
 Enterprise reform program, TA for strengthening the work o f the Ollssa Electricity Regulatory
 Commission, and significant technical grant support for public administrationreform and good governance.
 DFIDis also preparinga large policy-basedOperation inthe healthsector. Recognizingthe needto be fully
 informed and coordinated in our approach, the Bank and DFIDteams worlung on Orissa have streamlined a
 system o f regular consultation and information sharing between the two organizations, as well as joint
 initiatives to coordinate knowledge and experience sharing among all donors active or interested inOrissa.




 l4R2004-170.

                                                        24

C.RELATIONSHIPTO OTHER BANKENGAGEMENTS

92.     Analytical work. The programmatic development policy lending program inOrissa is grounded in a
range o f analytical work. The Bank's diagnostic work on the economic and fiscal problems of Orissa began
with a first state economic report in August 1996,15 and was followed by an updated economic report in
1999.16 A targeted dialogue on major fiscal and administrative reforms began after the state government
exhibited firm resolve in March 2001 to face up to the fiscal crisis. Policy notes were prepared in 2002-03,
mainly to support fiscal reforms. More recent analytical work is summarized inTable 6 below.

                                              Table 6: Analytical Work

                                   Analyticalwork                                 Primary linkto DPL area




93.      Lending and TA. Programmatic development policy lending plays a critical role in enhancing the
effectiveness of other forms o f Bank support, by (i)        enhancing space in the state budget for high priority
development initiatives; (ii)   strengthening overall public financial management and effectiveness o f public
 spending; and (iii)catalyzing institutional development, including enabling mechanisms for improving
 government efficiency and for innovations in service delivery.              In addition to OSEDL-11, the program
 currently includes:

         A State Roads Project under preparation, focusing on investments o f high priority for economic
         growth and poverty reductioninthe state;
         A Rural Poverty Reduction Project under preparation, focusing on enhancing income earning
         opportunities for the rural poor, through investments in social capital including women's self-help
         groups;
         A follow-on Water Resourcesproject (expected but yet to be formally requested) that builds on the
         success achieved with participatory irrigation management under the recently completed water
         resources consolidationproject;
         A second health project (expected but yet to be formally requested), innovatively designed using
         recent analytical work, with multi-sector implementation arrangement, focused on reducing infant,
         child and maternal mortality to accelerate achievement o f these key Millennium Development
         Goals inthe state;


 l5
  INDIA: Strategy and Optionsfor FiscalStabilizationin Orissa(Report No. 15809-IN)
 l6
  INDIA:FiscalReformand Economic Growth inOrissa (Report No. 19234-IN)

                                                            25

     9 Technical assistance for implementation of second generation reforms in the power sector, whose
         success is an essential component o f improving the investment climate;
     9 A pilot project to promote tourism, focusing on developing a cultural heritage site around ancient
         temples in the capital city, using a participatory approach involving the local community; and.
     9 A pilot program to expand rural income earning opportunities from handlooms and medicinal
         plants.

94.      Building on previous work on benefit sharing and poverty analysis, a programmatic Poverty and
Social Impact Analysis i s being initiated to better understand the types o f vulnerability that may arise from
the reform program and associated policy actions. The PSIA process i s expected to provide opportunities
for analysis o f local institutionsand interface with key stakeholders.

95.      The World Bank Institute's proposed program for Onssa supports the strategic framework o f the
Bank`s program o f assistance outlined above. The proposed capacity building program addresses four
areas; (i)an enabling investment climate that leads to broad-based and inclusive growth; (ii)further
strengthening o f poverty monitoring and evaluation techniques; (iii)strengthening Panchayati Raj (rural
local body) institutions for improved service delivery; and (iv) fiscal decentralization and public
expenditure management.

D.LESSONSLEARNED

96.       Programmatic development policy lending occupies a crucial place in the Bank's program o f
assistance to Orissa, as it constitutes a unique form o f support that none o f the other donors in Orissa are in
a position to provide. Experience to date has confirmed the usefulness o f this instrument to support fiscal,
economic and governance reforms at the state level in India. Similar operations have been undertaken in
Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. All operations have so far been rated moderately successful
or better by Operations EvaluationDepartment (OED). Relevant lessons from state-level operations inIndia
include": (i)    the need for a well-identified multi-year reform framework, initiated preferably early in the
electoral cycle; (ii) need for institutionalizing the fiscal framework; and (iii) inadequacy o f fiscal
                         the                                                                          the
adjustment o f its own, and the need for a complementary focus on growth and human development. These
lessons have been incorporated into the design o f the Orissa program. With many o f the reforms for fiscal
adjustment now inplace, it i s now appropriate for the programto focus more on structural reforms required
for sustained and broad-based private investment led growth, and on institutional reform in key sectors
relevant for the Millennium Development Goals.

97.       As discussed earlier, the mining sector has the potential to be a major source o f future economic
growth, but there are also risks associated with mining exploration (see below). Relevant lessons that have
been learned from global initiatives, ongoing capacity building operations for the sustainable management
o f the mineral sector being implemented in other countries including in Africa, Latin America and Central
Asia, as well as the Bank's experience with miningprojects inthe ECA Region include:

          miningsector explorationand investment is most effectively carriedout bythe private sector with
          the government acting as regulator;
          a highlevel o f commitment i s required over many years to achieve sustained growth inan industry
          such as mining;
          implementingminingsector reform and development i s highlydependent on (a) a sound mining
          regulatory and licensing system; and (b) overall institutional capabilities;
          initiatives are also needed to make sure that revenues generated by the sector are usedwell;
          participatory development and community ownership are essential to achieving sustainability
          through the actualization o f "solid minerals" community associations and the build-upo f ownership



   For a more detailed discussion on the progress and remaining challenges facing states' fiscal reforms inIndia see INDIA: States
 Fiscal Reforms in India-Progress and Prospects (Report No. 28849-IN), June 17,2004.

                                                                26

         at the State and Local Government levels, given the potential for economic diversification and
         revenue mobilization;
     9 onthepolicylevel, involvingGovernment counterparts at anearly stageofprojectpreparationisan
         important factor in future project success.



   V.        THE PROPOSEDORISSA SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


A. OPERATION DESCRIPTION

98,      The objective o f the proposed second Onssa Socio-Economic Development Loadcredit (OSEDL)
i s to support the continued implementation o f critical structural, fiscal and administrative reforms needed to
boost economic growth and achieve rapid poverty reduction over the medium term. The easing o f fiscal
constraints and improvements in systems o f service delivery will, among other things, enable Orissa to
effectively utilize additional project assistance in key sectors in future years. Inthe absence o f adjustment
support, G o 0 will resort to more expensive sources o f borrowing, undermining progress towards the
development goals.

99.       Commensurate with Orissa's strong fiscal correction program and financing needs, and consistent
with the extant guidelineso f GoI, adjustment support from the Bank is inthe form of a programmatic series
o f operations during 2004-09. The individual size o f each operation i s to be determined at the time o f
negotiations depending on progress with reforms, and consistent with a policy o fback loading. The amount
of the first Operation was equivalent to US$ 125 million ( U S 4 0 million IDA and US$ 85 million IJ3I2D).
On the basis o f the strengtho fthe program and the legitimate financing needs o f the Government o f Orissa,
the amount o f the second Operation i s proposed to be US$ 225 million (US$ 75 million IDA and US$ 150
million IBRD). To be consistent with the revised guidelines for sub-national policy based lending issued by
the Government o f India inOctober 2005,OSEDL-I1 would be disbursed intwo tranches.

B.        POLICYAREAS

 100.     Under the Orissa Socio-Economic Development Program, indicative milestones are agreed upon at
the time o f negotiating each operation, for a potential subsequent operation. Ten indicative prior actions
 for OSEDL I1were identified during OSEDL Ipreparation, agreed upon at negotiations, and endorsed by
the Bank's Senior Management and Board o f Executive Directors. These actions have all been taken, as
 explained in Section I11above. The key measures highlighted as prior actions for the release o f the first
 tranche o f OSEDL-I1 are the following:

 Economic Reforms for Inclusive Growth

 9 Enact legislationto amend the Orissa Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1956, to lift state monopoly,
      enable private investment in marketing yards and storage facilities, and to regulate sale o f agricultural
      produce through contract farming. (para 29)

 9 Enact the Onssa IndustriesFacilitation Act, 2004 and notify the Orissa Industries Facilitation Rules,
      2005, for streamlining the approval o f projects sponsored by private enterprises, including a Combined
      Application Form that reduces the number o f forms required to be submitted for establishment o f
      industries from 18 to one. (para 34)

 h Continued progress in implementing the Public Enterprises Reform and Privatization Policy (2002),
      including selling the assets o f two closed enterprises, initiating the environment audit o f twenty
      enterprises and privatizing two enterprises. (para 39)



                                                        27

9 Initiate implementation of OERC order on the business plan of distribution companies, including: (i)
   reconciliation and settlement o f past dues between the largest consuming government department and
   CESCO; (ii)    payment o f current bills by state government departments to the distnbution companies on
   an average o f at least 90% o f billing in 2005-2006; (iii)   execution o f agreements between CESCO and
   at least two municipal authorities for ensuring discipline in the supply o f and payments for electricity;
   and (iv) initiation o f steps to designate existing courts to try electricity theft cases. (paras 41-46)

Fiscal Reforms, FinancialManagement & Accountability

9 Orissa Fiscal Responsibility & Budget Management Act enacted; primary surplus achieved in2004/05
   with overall deficit less than 3.5% o f GSDP; execution o f the 2005/06 budget and targets for 2006/07
   consistent with the FRBMAct. (paras 49-5 1)

9 Reducethe share ofsalaries incurrent expenditure( net ofinterestandpension) from 57% in2003-04 to
   below 54% in2004-05, and estimated less than 50% in2005-06. (para 56)

9 Improvedratio ofactual spendingto target intheAnnual Plan2004/05; improvedutilizationof
    centrally sponsored schemes in2005/06. (para 59-60)

9 BeginimplementationofActionPlanto strengthen financial accountability, includingenhanced levelof
    disclosure o f financial information inbudget documents, and updated month-end accounts o f rural local
   bodies posted on G o 0 website. (paras 58-64)

9 Government approvalofAnti-Corruption Action Plan, coveringmeasuresto strengthenprevention,
    enforcement and public awareness, and reforms inthe system o fpublic procurement. (para 66)

Public Service Delivery & Human Development

9 Continue implementationofcivil servicereforms, including(i)           identification o f vacant regular posts for
    abolition, o f which over 15,000 abolished during April 2004 - April 2006; and (ii)              continued staff
    redeployment. (para 73)

9 Initiateimplementationofshort-term recommendations ofthe organizational review ofthe Department
    of Health (2002), including abolition o f some posts and conversion o f paramedics to district cadre.
    (para 78)

101.    The requirements for the release o f the second tranche o f OSEDL I1will be the following:

    9 Satisfactory progress achieved by Orissa in carrying out the Socio-Economic Development
         Program(as set out inOrissa's letter o f Development Policy)
    9 The macro-economic policy framework of the Government of Orissa is appropriate, including
         further strengthening o f the fiscal position beyond 2005-06 towards achieving the targets and
         objectives o f the MediumTerm Fiscal Plan (2005-10).

The fiscal position would be consideredto have been further strengthenedifthe estimated outcome in2006-
07, as set out in the Revised Estimates publishedby GOO,i s in conformity with the targets o f the Medium-
Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP), including outstanding debt being less than 280 percent o f revenue receipts, and
interest payments being less than 25 percent o f revenue receipts. If Orissa fails to achieve such progress in
2006-07, the Bank will assess ifthe estimated outcome in 2007-08 is inconformity with the MTFP targets
for that year. Inmalung this assessment for any given year, the previous year's actual outcomes based on
the audited accounts will be taken into consideration. Any unforeseen or extraordinary circumstances
beyond Goo's control will also be taken into account. If the requirement relating to the macroeconomic
policy framework, as described above, i s not met before the closing date of June 30, 2008, the second
tranche of OSEDL-I1 will be cancelled and G o 0 would lose its potential eligibility for any subsequent

                                                        28

operation under the Orissa Socio-Economic Development Program.

102.    Indicative triggers for a potential third Operation have been selected from among the key policy
actions that Go0 is committed to take over the next 12months, as part o f its reform program (Go0 Program
Matrix i s Attachment A inAnnex 1 and the Operation Policy Matrix i s attached as Annex 2). The selection
of tnggers i s based on the criterion that such an Operation could be linked to those actions that are
especially important for enhancing the positive impact on the poor and disadvantaged sections o f the
population, and for reducing the risk o f negative impacts. Indicative triggers for a potential OSEDL 111,
whose preparation will be initiated subsequent to a request received from GoI, are listedbelow:

Economic Reforms for Inclusive Growth

9 Ensure better coordinationand rationalizationof Land Registry Office with the Tehsil Administration,
    towards an integrated and user friendly land administration; delegate decision-making authority,
    particularly to frontline officers; initiate steps for e-governance o f land records; and launch survey and
    digitization work for transparent settlement o f un-demarcatedlands (including >10% slope).
P Filling of critical vacancies in the Forest Department through re-deployment and contractual
    appointments, and abolition o f redundant positions; delegation o f decision making power to field based
    forest officers; and revised guidelines for Joint Forest Management - to support a change management
    process oriented towards effective community based forestry.
9 Adoption ofPolicy onPublic Private Partnership inInfrastructure.
9 Initiate implementationby Orissa Pollution Control Board ofcapacity strengthening plan, including (i)
    government approval o f staffing plan, and (ii)rationalization o f consent (CTO) duration based on
    environment and social risks.

Fiscal reforms, FinancialManagement & Accountability

9 Begin implementation of procurement reforms component of the Anti-Corruption Action Plan,
    including (i) posting o f tenders and contracts awarded by the participating departments (Works, Rural
    Development, Water Resources; Housing and Urban Development) on the official website; and (ii)           e-
    procurement for all procurement above Rupees 10 million in at least one of the participating
    departments.

Public Service Delivery & Human Development

9 Implementmeasures to enhance teacher accountability, including certification ofattendance byVillage
    Education Committees and public display o f information outside each school and GramPanchayat o f its
    resources allocations, names and photographs o f teachers and names o f VEC members.
k Develop and initiate implementation of an action plan to strengthen efficiency, accountability and
    delivery o f food distribution programs (to be specified further duringpreparationo f OSEDL 111).


                            VI.          OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION


    A. POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT

103.     Measures to accelerate poverty reduction are at the heart o f this operation. Extensive analytical
work on the multidimensional nature of poverty, vulnerability and exclusion undertaken by GOO,the Bank,
and DFID highlights that accelerating economic growth and increasing and improving investments in
health, education and social protection with increased emphasis on monitoring and program evaluation are



                                                         29

the key for faster poverty reduction.'8 The analysis also shows that private investments necessary to fuel an
acceleration o f growth and employment are likely to include a significant share o f investment in mineral
based industries.     Inthis context, managing the potential environmental and social issues related to this
sector, especially resettlement and rehabilitation issues would remain a key challenge. Cognizant o f these
issues G o 0 has inM a y 2006 framed a resettlement and rehabilitationpolicy which will guide Goo's policy
approach.    G o 0 will also be supporting a programmatic Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA)
described in para 108 to analyse how growth can be distributed more inclusively and to identify the nature
o f vulnerabilities of communities.

104.      On balance, there is a consensus among the leadership o f the state and the development partners
that acceleration of growth and industrialization are vital for economic growth and poverty reduction in
Orissa. In this regard, the poverty and social impact o f this operation should be seen in light of the
alternative status quo. How will the pace o f growth and poverty reduction change if a comprehensive set o f
reforms i s not implemented? Onssa has the highest level o f rural poverty o f all Indian states and poverty
reduction duringthe 1990s has been limited - in stark contrast to the rest o f India. This trend was driven by
the increasing poverty rates in the Southern and the Northern regions o f Onssa, while poverty inthe coastal
Orissa had declined. Tribal groups which dwell inthe forests over the mineral deposits are overrepresented
inthe Southern andNorthernregions inOrissa. "Business as usual" for this group will implyaperpetuation
of livelihood with reliance on subsistence agriculture, gathering o f forest products, sub-standard service
delivery and exclusion. To make growth more inclusive, while addressing the legitimate concerns of the
stakeholders, the government i s implementing the following measures.

 105.     First,to encourage income gains for all, Go0 has taken a number o f initiatives. GOO'Sprogram o f
"Mission Shakti" that i s empowering thousands o f tribal and other women centering on Self Help Groups.
The provision o f focused connectivity to tribal areas and enhanced allocation o f funds for health, education
and social protection are expected to result in enhanced social development opportunities and outcome
which would also contribute to GOO'Sefforts to bring about inclusive economic growth to improve the
impact of its interventions, G o 0 i s experimenting with innovative approaches to improving incomes o f the
 informal sector workers through strengthening the traditional livelihood systems in which Orissa has a
comparative advantage. The Orissa Fund for Development Initiatives (OFFDI) launched in March 2006
will be implemented through cooperative, NGOs, CBOs, selected government departments (the Directorate
 of Textiles) and private sector and will focus on medicinal plants service programs, handloom and
 sericulture development program, building brands, e-market expansion program as well as community
 livelihoods action program. The geographic focus of the OFFDI is in the disadvantaged Northern and
 Eastern areas o f Onssa.

 106.     Second, Go0 is complementing these efforts with a wide consultative process centering on its
 Vision document and improving civic engagement based on partnership between the Government, the
 NGOs, and the other stakeholders. While the Vision document i s being discussed at district and state levels
 by different stakeholders, G o 0 is putting inplace a "task force" that would facilitate continuous dialogue
 focusing on Government-NGO partnership for development, displacement, loss o f livelihood, tribal rights,
 PESA and social conflict management. In case o f the R&R, for example, an elaborate process o f
 consultation involving NGOs, academic and social research institutions, private sector, and multilateral
 institutions as well as the affected and displaced persons o f development projects were already organized in
 the state.

  107.    Third, the establishment o f the Poverty Task Force and subsequent strengthening of the statistical
 systeminthe State coupled with the improved analytical capacity for poverty analysis are important actions
 for improving pro-poor planning and policymaking. Timely availability of data on poverty-related
 characteristics at a disaggregated level (i.e., at a district level, and for the ST groups separately) enables
 G o 0 to evaluate the effect o f policies and programs o f on the welfare of the poor and vulnerable population

 " Orissa Development Report, PlanningComission, Government of India, 2002, and Orissa Human Development Report
 Government of Orissa 2004. See A. de Haan, and A. Dubey Poverty, Disparities, or the Development of Underdevelopment in
 Orissa,Economic andPoliticalWeekly May 28-June4, 2005, India,New Delhi, for an example of DFID work.

                                                          30

as well as to fine-tune their implementation. Significant progress has been made in the area o f assessing the
effectiveness o f the employment and nutrition programs in Orissa (see para 89).

108.     Fourth, for the focused monitoring of the impact of increased investments in the extractive
industries on the livelihood o f the population, the Bank will continue providing technical assistance to the
G o 0 for the series of focused household-level data collection initiatives in the mining areas as well as for
the in-depth analytical work to analyze them. This continuous data collection and analysis will form the
basis of a programmatic PSIA to be carried out during the next 2 years. The analysis will build on existing
work and include a diagnostic o f the sources o f vulnerability associated with exposure to mineral based
industries. The analysis will address the ways in which interests o f affected population can be addressed so
that growth can be more equitable and what local institutionsneed to be strengthened inthis process.

B.IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORINGAND EVALUATION

109.     Implementationarrangements. Different components of the program are implemented by the
respective departments o f the state government, with the Finance Department designated as the nodal
agency for this operation. Overall coordination and oversight i s provided by a highly motivated team o f
senior civil servants headed by the Chief Secretary. Technical support i s provided by (i)       the Poverty &
Human Development Monitoring Agency, which reports to the Poverty Task Force headed by the
Development Commissioner, (ii)the Onssa Computer Applications Center, and through (iii)Orissa
Modernizing Government Initiative, which i s supported by the UK DFID. Leadership for strategic
communication to the public about the reform program is vested with the Principal Secretary to the Chief
Minister.

 110.    G o 0 supports the strengthening o f monitoring and public reporting. The Government has held
workshops on its reform strategy and plans to finalize its key strategy papers following stakeholder
consultation. The mediumterm fiscal framework has been made publicly available as will the Vision 2020.
The establishment o f a Poverty Task Force, and more recently a poverty and human development
monitoring agency under the PTF, i s appreciably improving the availability o f poverty data, and the impact
of Go0 policies on the poor (see paras 85-89).

 C. FIDUCIARY ASPECTS

 111.             Improving public financial accountability i s a central part o f the reform program in Orissa.
 Based on the findings and recommendations o f the State Financial Accountability Assessment, 2004, Go0
 approved a detailed Development Action Plan in August 2004. Since then, several financial management
 improvements have been initiated, the details o f which are outlined inparagraphs 58-64 o f this Document.
 Many o f the steps taken inthe areas o f budget execution, monitoring and cash management have produced
 visible positive results, and provide a strong trajectory for PFM improvement. G o 0 has demonstrated its
 will to continue the PFMreforms, evidenced by the scale and variety of actions underway. These positive
 strides taken by GOO, its demonstrated results and the strong commitment for continued PFM reforms
 provide a satisfactory basis for the purposes o f the Development Policy (DP) operation.

 112.     The Bank has reasonable assurance that the control environment for foreign exchange in the
 Reserve Bank o f India (RBI) i s satisfactory for the purposes o f this operation, based on the RBIaudit report
 and the satisfactory outcomes o f other operations, which have been disbursed and managed through the
 RBI.The IMF does not carry out a Safeguard Assessment o f the Reserve Bank o f India (RBI), the central
 bank in India. As part of the appraisal for the DPL operation, the RBI audit report and published annual
 financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2005 were reviewed by the Bank. The audit report has a
 clean, unqualified opinion and was conducted by a group o f six private firms o f chartered accountants
 appointed by the GoI. The financial   statements are prepared in accordance with the Reserve Bank o f India
 Act, 1934, the notifications issued there under and inthe form prescribed by the RBI General Regulations
 1949; the audit has been conducted following auditing standards generally accepted inIndia.



                                                        31

D.DISBURSEMENTAND AUDITING

113.     Upon effectiveness, the borrower, i.e., the Government o f India (GoI), will submit to the Bank a
withdrawal application for the first tranche. The withdrawal application for the second tranche will be
submitted after the Bank and Go1 have assessed that fiscal performance beyond 2005-06 has been in line
with the agreed correction path, as described inparagraph 101 above. Ln each case, the Bank will disburse
the U S dollar proceeds to the credit o f GoI's account with the Reserve Bank o f India (RBI). This account i s
controlled by the Office o f Controller o f Aid, Accounts and Audit (CAAA) o f the Department o f Economic
Affairs, GoI, and i s part o f the GoI's general foreign exchange reserves. Upon receipt o f each tranche o f
the loadcredit proceeds, Go1will transfer the equivalent rupee amount to G o 0 as per the revised guidelines
for the transfer o f external assistance on back-to-back terms. This follows the recommendations o f the
Twelfth Finance Commission (TFC) and enables the States to participate on an equal footing in
concessional external assistance, on the same terms and conditions as attached to such assistance by
external funding agencies, thereby making Go1a financial intermediary without any gain or loss. G o 0 will
confirm to the Bank within 30 days, the receipt o f each tranche and its credit into the Consolidated Fundo f
the State.

114.      Disbursement of the loadcredit proceeds would not be linked to specific purchases. However, Go1
would not use the loadcredit proceeds to pay for expenditures included in the Bank's standard negative list
which includes expenditures on military hardware, and environmentally hazardous goods. If any portion o f
the Credit i s used to finance ineligible expenditures as so defined in the DCA, IDA shall require the
GoYGoO to refund the amount to IDA.

E.ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS

115.      An analysis o f environmental aspects o f this operation i s based on the Bank-supported Orissa
Growth and Environment study undertaken over the past year. The study helped develop a good
understanding o f key environmental issues associated with the reform program, and the capacity o f state
institutions to tackle those. As the outcome o f the study, a plan o f actions to strengthen capacity o f the
OPCB to perform proper due diligence while issuinghenewing permits and to monitor and enforce
compliance o f an increasing number o f facilities has beenprepared and its implementationi s proposed to be
supported by the Bank through a parallel TA program. Similarly, G o 0 is planning, with Bank support, to:
(a) initiate a program for strengthening capacity o f the Forest Department to improve effectiveness o f forest
conservation measures and forest clearance process for development projects, and (b) develop suitable
processes and mechanisms for           supporting peripheral development o f affected forest-dependent
communities.

 116.     Rationalization of business entry regulations, supported by this operation, including one common
application form does not impact on the environmental and forest clearance processes. Furthermore, actions
to lower entry costs for new businesses will be accompanied by measures to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness o f the environmental agencies. Therefore, this reform is not expected to have negative
environmental impacts.

 117.     Restructuring and privatization of public enterprises: This program pays significant attention to
 environmental issues associated with public enterprise reform and privatization and i s likely to have a
positive environment impact by incorporating environmental screening and auditing processes and
 addressing environmental liabilities inthe public enterprise reform agenda.

 118.     Fiscal reforms and improved Jiscal management supported by this operation are not expected to
have an impact. Generically, a negative impact can be expected if expenditure reforms are achieved at the
 cost o f cutting on environmental protection and conservation expenditure. However, capacity strengthening
 actions plans being prepared for environmental agencies as part o f government program and supported by
 the Bank will include staffing plans enabling these agencies to perform regulatory and conservation
 functions effectively, for which these agencies also have dedicated sources o f revenue. More details are


                                                       32

provided in Annex 3 (Environmental & Social Screening Matrix)

F.RISKSAND RISKMITIGATION

119.      As described in previous sections, this operation seeks to support the Government o f Orissa's
broad-based program of reforms to ensure more inclusive growth and faster poverty reduction; as well as
fiscal, financial  management and accountability reforms to enable the better delivery o f a range o f public
services. InIndia's poorer states such as Orissa, the potentialbenefits o f such reform are high, but so are the
risks. The main risks to the reform program and its outcomes include environmental and social risk,
political risk, exogenous shocks including vulnerability to natural shocks, limited administrative capacity
and the risk that the second tranche i s not disbursed, due to fiscal slippage. The nature o f these risks and the
corresponding mitigationstrategy i s discussed below.

120.      Impact on the environment. The program anticipates that, while broadening its sources o f growth, a
significant part o f Orissa's future economic growth will be based on natural resources and extractive
industries. In that context, there is a risk that the technical and administrative capacity o f the state
environmental regulators - the Orissa Pollution Control Board (OPCB) and the Forest Department - would
be inadequate to perform their due diligence fbnctions - to provide appropriate clearances and
monitorienforce compliance - for an increasing number o f development projects as a result o f reduced entry
costs. To address this issue, a program o f planned actions i s being proposed to build the capacity o f the
OPCB to meet its anticipated needs, as supported by this operation, as well as a parallel TA program
financed by the Bank. This Bank TA operation will also support the government's efforts to develop and
implement plans for strengthening the Forest Department's capacity to perform conservation functions. In
addition, in respect of the miningsector, G o 0 and its Department o f Mines and Steel, in cooperation with
other relevant Departments, have also agreed to undertake, with Bank assistance, a strategic environmental
and social assessment o f the mineral sector and develop, on that basis, an action plan to mitigate and
manage environmental and social risks.           It will draw on lessons o f best practices and risk mitigation
strategies in other miningdependent counties and inIndia.

 121.     Social Risk. The poorest sections of the population in Orissa, which includes members o f the
Scheduled Tribes (STs) living in forest and mining areas, have not benefited equitably from past growth.
One risk i s that the process o f faster industrialization and mineral based industrial growth will lead to
increased levels o f social inequality and conflict, especially affecting the STs who risk being excluded due
to their location, education, reliance on subsistence agnculture and gathering o f forest products, inadequate
access to services, and limited voice and participation.           Orissa's growing civil society movement - a
strength for the state overall -has already voiced its concern on this issue and will continue to be proactive
inits monitoring of the impact ofreforms on STs. The operation supports several mechanisms to address
the possible social risks:

       0  First, are measures in the overall direction of reform by G o 0 to make the growth process much
          more inclusive (see Section 1II.A) so that visible gains are achieved and benefit all citizens o f
          Orissa, including the STs.        Improved management o f forests to increase income earning
           opportunities o f forest communities and reform o f the food and nutrition programs as part of the
           social safety net and anti-poverty programs are especially important.
       0   Second, i s to appropriately resettle and rehabilitate families affected by miningand related industry
           development. Although the number o f ST families and extent o f their lands affected by such
           development i s likely to be relatively small, (to be confirmed by the proposed PSIA) due to
           considerably enhanced protection provided by national forestry policies and related Supreme Court
           of India decisions strictly protecting ST land rights in forest areas, G o 0 i s also undertaking
           additional mitigation steps. G o 0 has adopted a new R&R policy, which contains several measures
          beneficial for the affected population, including equity participation in any mining development,
           "land for land" transfers in water resources and irrigation projects, inclusion o f project affected
          persons in project design; "job options" in industrial and mining projects and peripheral
           development plan.

                                                          33

     0   Third, is the regular process of consultations with civil society groups which has been initiated so
         that issues of public concern and priority are voiced and acknowledged. Inparticular, the program
         proposes to hold consultation with groups that reside in forest areas likely to be affected by
         increased activity in extractive industries.
     0   Fourth, is to regularize land rights o f tribal people who have settled in forests prior to 1980, in
         accordance with the provisions o f the law. The planned actions in promoting higher incomes for
         people living in and around forests (including access to lands on slopes) also benefit broad
         communities perhaps otherwise excluded.
     0   Fifth, is to strengthen the framework for sustainable mining sector development, including
         mechanisms for enhanced "benefit sharing" for local communities.

122.     This i s an important package o fpolicy measures that recognizes up front that social risks have to be
actively managed to ensure that the potential growth impact o f the reforms will be broad based. Social risk
management i s a dynamic process and measures may have to be changed or new approaches adopted as the
economy grows and as new information about the impact o f reforms emerge. To support Go0 to actively
manage the risk aspects o f the reforms, the Bank will also be undertaking with Go0 a programmatic
Poverty and Social Impact Assessment to better assess and monitor the types o f vulnerability that may arise
from the reformprogram and associated policy actions.

123.     Political Risk.   In part because the reform program involves measures that affect entrenched
interests that benefit from the status quo, as everywhere else but especially so in poor states, there i s a risk
o f reforms being undermined as a result of political opposition organized by such interests. The lessons o f
experience in India and elsewhere suggest that several factors contnbute to a mitigation o f these risks.
Importantly, G o 0 has begun to establish a track record and has implemented important up-front actions,
laying the basis for subsequent reforms, as part o f the Onssa Socio-Economic Development Program.
Particularly noteworthy and politically challenging measures have included the adoption o f the anti-
corruption Action Plan as well as a number of measures that reduced the relative fiscal burden o f the salary
bill and cracked down on the problem of `grants-in-aid' for private establishments in education, thus
supporting the fiscal correction.

124.      The present Government of Orissa earned considerable goodwill in the state because o f its strong
position against corruption. Elections for the Ollssa Legislature in 2004 returned the same alliance and
Chief Minister to power, reflecting its better governance performance. Fairly broad ownership o f key
program objectives has been built among senior political leaders, bureaucrats and parts o f civil society,
through consultations that are ongoing. The Government of India i s also strongly supportive o f Orissa's
reformprogram.

 125.    Nevertheless, analysis o f the political economy o f reforms in Orissa, carried out by the Bank team
inFY05, suggests that while the programbeingimplemented isbeneficialto the majority ofthe population,
including the poor, few among the people in Orissa are aware that this i s the case. In this context, the
lesson from within India and elsewhere i s that the principal risks that threaten sustained progress are: (a)
lack o f effective communication, informed media coverage and hence o f awareness among the people about
the reform program and its benefits; and (b) alienation and lack o f voice among the poor and disadvantaged
sections o f the population. In order to mitigate these risks, the Task Team proposes to provide non-lending
technical assistance to help GOO:(i)   strengthen its communication strategy; (ii) a more pro-active role
                                                                                   play
than in the past in supporting issues o f voice between government and civil society; and (iii)       build the
knowledge and capacity o f the reform implementers to strengthen the `voice' o f other stakeholders. Such a
strategy would be aimed at gaining the ownership and support o f the key stakeholders in the program in
order to accelerate economic growth andpoverty reduction.

 126.     Vulnerability to Natural Shocks and Fiscal Slippage. Poor economic performance as a result of
drought, floods or other natural disasters could undermine the fiscal correction and slow down poverty
reduction. This risk i s being partially mitigated by basing the Medium-Term Fiscal Plan on a conservative
 assumption o f GSDP growth thus leaving room to adjust to shocks; and by GOO'Sefforts to enhance its


                                                        34

capacity for disaster management and to strengthen social protection programs. Enactment of the Onssa
Fiscal Responsibility & Budget Management Act, 2005, and adoption o f an updated Medium-Term Fiscal
Plan (MTFP) consistent with it, reduces the risk of deviating from the fiscal correction path approved by the
State Legislature. Sensitivity analysis conducted by the Bank team shows that a temporary growth shock in
one year will only postpone the achievement o f fiscal correction targets by about one year. The Bank i s
currently also collaborating with Go1 on addressing issues o f adaptation to climate change, and this
initiative includes working with Onssa on drought and flood issues.

127.     Limited Administrative Capacity. Addressing capacity constraints and issues of skill mix in the
civil service i s one of the components o f the Government's civil service & administrative reforms program.
Inaddition, capacity constraints are also addressedby substantial and focused technical assistanceprovided
by the Bank and by DFID. Such assistance has facilitated the use by G o 0 o f experts from other reforming
Indian states.




                                                      35

                                                                              m m               Annex 1

                                                                           * d 623-c T m
                                                                               f s             '
                                                                               74 mm,
                                                                       .r;f f235I-110 001 rn
 rn                                                                        Governmentof India
                                                                            Ministryof Finance
Secretary                                                            Departmentof EconomicAffairs
                                                                               North Block,
                                                                Tel(O11)New  Delhi 110001 India
                                                                                   -
                                                                         2309 2611 Fax (011) 2309 4075
                                                                        e-mail :ashokjhaQnic.in

                                                                 D.O. NO.12/7/2001-FB.IV

                                                                      Dated: 1stJuly, 2006.




                 IamenclosingaLetterofDevelopmentPolicydated25*June,2006,fiomthe
          Chief Secretary to the State Government of Orissa. The letter delineates the broad
          and comprehensive reforms agenda through which the Government of Orissa
          proposes to strengthen and consolidate its reforms process, and for which it has
          sought assistance from the World Bankof $225 million.

                 Government of India supports this continued initiative and commends the
         proposalfor the consideration ofthe World Bank.



                                                                            Yours sincerely,  I




                                                                                (Ash
                                                                                9       h a )



         Mr.PaulWolfowitz
         President
         The World Bank

         USA
         Washington D.C. -20433



         Encl: as above

                                         ChiefSecretary&ChiefDevelopmentCommissioner
Dr.SubasPani,Ms                                              GovemmentofOrissa, Bhubaneswar

                                                                               D.O. No. 265941F,
                                                                               Dated25.06.2006




   Sub:            Letter of DevelopmentPolicyof Govemmentof Orissafor
                   (OrissaSociolEconomCcDevelopmeritLoan) OSEDL-/I.

          The Government of Orissa has carried out the next phase of wide-ranging
   reforms under the rubric of the Orissa Socio-Economic Development Programme,
   thereby qualifying for a second World Bank loankreditto supportthis ongoing effort.
   The programme includes fiscal and administrative reforms needed to boost socio-
   economic development and achieve rapid poverty reduction over the medium term.
   The details of key actions that have been taken until 315'March, 2006, and actions
   that are scheduled to be taken during 2006-07 and subsequent years, are attached
   in the form of the Orissa Socio-Economic Development Programme Matrix
 / (Annexure-I). A list of indicatorsthat will be usedto monitorthe ongoing progressof
   programme implementationis also attached (Annexure 11).
   2.      CompaFed with rest of India, Orissa has been facing a serious development
   imbalance. If one compares some of the major social and economic indicators, it
   would be amply evident that Orissa has a lot of catching up to do even to reachthe
   national average, let alone achieve the levels of other developed states. It is
   because the economy of Orissa grew more slowly than the rest of India in the
   decade of the 1990s. Per-capitaincomefell further back comparedto the rest of the
   country. The principal factors for slow growth in the State have been: (i) low
   productivity of agriculture, due to low penetration of modern technology and low
   level of assured irrigation; (ii) poor road connectivity and limited market access for
   farmers, along with food insecurity restricting their willingness to diversify from
   paddy; (iii) low level and inequitable utilizationof mineral resources, with inadequate




    Phone :Office (0674)2534300,2536700, FAX :2536660, E-mail:csori@ori.nic.in,Website :orissa.gov.in

forward linkage in the past; (iv) an over-sized public administration; and (v) the fiscal
crisis, which constrained the State's ability to undertake the public investments
requiredfor faster economic growth.


3.     The multi-pronged approach of State's reformprogramme includes:

       (i)   Economic reforms focusing on enhancing agricultural productivity,
             security of land rights and market access for poor farmers and forest
             dwellers, improvingthe business environmentfor private investors; and
             reform of publicenterprises;
       (ii)  Fiscal and financial management reforms aimed at achieving
             creditworthiness while creating additional fiscal space for high priority
             developmental spending, along with public accountability, anti-
             corruption measures and public procurement reforms to promote more
             efficient and transparent management of the government's financial
             resources; and

       (iii) Cross-cutting and sector specific reforms in public administration and
             service delivery, includingand especially for human development      -Le.,
             education, health and povertyalleviationprogrammes.

4.     In light of Orissa's fiscal crisis, the early phase of the State's reform
programme focused on the immediate necessity of fiscal correction.                   The
Government of Orissa has made very significant progress in correctingthe structural
imbalance in its finances. As a result,the financial positionof the State has shown a
significant improvement in recentyears, highlightsof which are as follows:

            QState's Own Revenue has increasedfrom 6.3% of GSDP in 1999-00to
             9.2% in 2004-05 (adjustingfor one-time factors), and estimated at 9.3%
             in 2005-06;

            QRevenue Deficit has declined from Rs. 2574 crore (6.7% of GSDP) in
             1999-00 to Rs. 522 crore (0.9%) in 2004-05, and estimated at 0.8Y0of
             GSDP in 2005-06;

            0Fiscal Deficit has been reducedfrom Rs. 3836 crore (9.9% of GSDP) in
             1999-00 to Rs. 1366 crore (2.3%) in 2004-05, estimated at 2.2% in
             2005-06;


                                            2

              Debt stock has been reducedfrom 341% of total revenuein 2001-02 to
             287% in 2004-05; and
              Interest payment as percentage of revenue receipt has declined from
             40.2% in 2001-02 to 28.1% in 2004-05, and estimated at 25.2% in
             2005-06.

5.     The successful macro level fiscal correction achieved so far, the fiscal policy
for 2006-07, and the road map ahead until 2009-10, have been tabled in the State
Legislaturein the form of Statements presentedalong with the Annual Budget 2006-
07 under the Orissa Fiscal Responsibility & Budget ManagementAct / Rule, 2005.
The Medium-Term Fiscal Plan shows how the state plans to achieve the target of
eliminating the Revenue Deficit by 2008-09, and at the same time improve the
composition of public expenditure by raising the share of capital investment and
non-wage recurringexpendituresin high prioritysectors.

6.     The correction of macro-structuralimbalances is leading to increasing fiscal
space for developmental initiatives. The State is accordingly paying increasing
attention to sector specific and cross-ckng institutional reforms to convert outlays
into outcomes   -that  is, to improve the quality of public expenditure and service
delivery, especially in education, health, social welfare and poverty alleviation
programmesa
7.     A comprehensive Anti-Corruption Action Plan was approved and notified by
the Government of Orissa in December 2005. This covers measures to strengthen
prevention, enforcement and public awareness, and systemic reforms in public
procurement.

8.     Substantial progress has already been made in the implementationof reforms
in the regulatory environment for private investment. Economic growth has picked
up, reaching an average of 8.4% in recent years, which is nearly double the growth
rate of the 1990s. Orissa has emerged as numberone among Indianstates interms
of investmentprojects under implementation.

9.     In the power sector, where Orissa was the pioneer in carrying out reforms to
involve the private sector in generation and distribution, steps are being taken to
implement the Order of the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission on the
business plans of the distribution companies, including payment of reconcileddues
of government departments to CESCO. Payment of current bills by government


                                         3

departments to all the distribution companies have improved to over 90% in 2005-
06, compared to 81% in the previousyear. Going forward, the State is committedto
establish credible institutional arrangements and financial mechanisms,to ensure
that the ruralelectrificationprogrammeis rolledout in a sustainable manner.

10.    To ensure that faster economic growth benefits the poor and disadvantaged
sections of the population, increased emphasis is being placed on measures to
further improve the performance of agriculture and allied activities in which the
majorityof the poor are engaged. Amendments to the Agricultural Produce Markets
Act were enacted by the State Legislaturein April 2006 and published in the Orissa
Gazette on 17" May, 2006. This legislation permits private investment in marketing
yards and storage facilities for agricultural products; it also enables contract farming
to help farmers diversify out of low-value paddy to higher value horticulture and
other crops. To facilitate empowermerit of farmers in water resourcesmanagement,
considerable progress has been made in placing the management of irrigation
systems below the main canal under the control of Paani Panchayats (water user
associations) covering an area of about 0.75 million hectares till date. In order to
improve access to land for the poor through better secured land property rights, the
State Government is moving forward to establish a modernized land administration
system, along with actions aimed at protectingthe rights of tribal communities over
forest resourcesin accordance with extant law.
11. New actions have been initiated to strengthen human development, including
enhanced accountability of school teachers and improving the performance of
programmes for the development of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes; and
for women's empowerment.

12.    Measures taken to improve the business climate include strengthening the
framework for managingenvironmental and social impact of natural resource-based
investments. With a view to ensuring sustainable industrial development, a new
comprehensive Resettlement and Rehabilitation policy has been adopted, after
broad stakeholder consultation, and published in the Orissa Gazette on 14" May,
2006.
13.    Poverty monitoring and evaluation capacity has also been considerably
strengthened. To accomplish monitoring and evaluation tasks more effectively, a
comprehensive poverty and human development monitoring system has been set-


                                           4

up by State Government. One of the main objectives of this system is to track4he
impact of reforms on the public, and strengthenthe Government's capacity to more
clearly link expenditureswith output and outcome indicators.

14.    The proposed Orissa Socio-Economic Development Loadcredit (OSEDL)
from the World Bank is indispensablefor the success of our efforts to lift Orissa out
of its current fiscal difficulties and set it on a sustainable course of rapid economic
growthand poverty reduction.The OSEDL is neededfor the following reasons:

       The policy dialogue and reform linked programme of financial support plays a
       vital catalytic role in maintaining as well as accelerating the reform
       momentum,
       The OSEDL enables the State to finance the direct up front cost of reforms
       such as VRS and other transitional costs (e.g. in the power sector and PSE),
       apart from enhancingtechnical assistanceto implementthe reform;

    0  The availabilityof such financing at relativelyconcessionalterms enables the
       State to reduce itsdebt servicing burden more rapidlythan othetwise;

    0  Such funding helps ease the liquidity constraint and assist Government of
       Orissa to make fuller use of available matching finance from Government of
       Indiafor high prioritysocial sector and povertyalleviation programmes.

15.    The World Bank approved the first Orissa Socio-Economic Development
Loadcredit, amounting to US$ 125 million, in November 2004, after the
Government of Orissa had implemented the first phase of the programme. The
Government of Orissa used the proceeds (i) to prepay old expensive debt to
domestic financial institutions, and (ii) to substitute for more expensive sources of
financing development expenditures. The proceeds of the proposed second loan /
credit amounting to US$ 225 million (about Rs.1000 crore) would be used in a
similar way: at least 60% for pre-paying old expensive debt and the remaining for
financing reform costs and as a substitute for more expensive sources of financing
development expenditures. Such borrowing by the State would be within the
prescribedaggregatedebt ceiling for 2006-07.
16.    The Structural Adjustment Assistance is continuing since 2002-03 and is
included in the 10" Plan Projection. Since this is an ongoing programme it would be
also included in the projection of resources for the 1 1 Five-Year Plan, within the
                                                               ~


                                              5

total loan ceiling to be approved by the Deptt. of Expenditurefrom time to time on
yearly basis.
17.    Iwould, therefore, request you to forwardthis proposalto the World Bankfor
approvalof the Second Orissa Socio-Economic Development Loan/Credit.


                                                          Yours sincerely,




SriA.K. Jha,
Secretaryto Govt. of India,
Departmentof EconomicAffairs,
Ministry of Finance,
New Delhi.




                                          6

                                                                                                        LDP attachmentA




      Actions taken untilMarch 2006                             Actions to be taken during2006-09
            (2005-06 Actions inItalics)                                 (2006-07 Actions inItalics)

Consultations on Vision andLong-TermStra

EstablishaPovertyTask Force(PTF) chairedby the             Finalization of Orissa Vision 2020 after duepublic
DevelopmentCommissioner, includingofficials in charge      consultations.
ofkey social sectors
                                                           Publicationof Approachpaper for the EleventhFive Year
Draft Orissa Vision 2020 document prepared, to be          Plan(2007-12), consistentwith Vision 2020 andwith
releasedfor public discussion.                             NationalApproachpaper of the PlanningCommission

Organize colloquiumfor consultationbetween                 Adoption of Orissa R&R Policy after consultations with
government andNGOs inOrissa                                various stakeholder groups

Prepare and initiate consultations on draft Rehabilitation
& Resettlement Policy.

Establish a Task Force to spearhead theprocess of
consultations with civil society representatives a on a
regular basis.

I.ECONOMICREFORMSFORINCLUSIV GROWTH
Agriculture, Irrigation and Land Administration

Enact amendment to OrissaAgricultural Produce              Formulate Rulesfor implementing ag. marketing reforms,
Markets Act, to lijl state monopoly and enable contract    ensuring transparent approval through a one-stop-shop.
farming
                                                           Formulation of demand-driven District Agricultural
                                                           Diversification and Marketing Strategies in coordination
Draft Agricultural Policy formulatedanddiscussed           with Dept of Water Resources andparticipation of PRIs

                                                           I.I million hectares of irrigated lands handed overfor
                                                           participatory irrigation management
 OrissaPaani Panchayat Act and correspondingRules
 approvedby State Legislaturein2003 to ensure
 empowerment ofwater user associations

 Over 750,000 hectares of agnculturallandshandedover       1.4millionhectares of irrigatedlandshandedover for
 to Pani Panchayats for participatory irrigation           participatoryirrigation managementby 2007-08; complete
 management                                                transfer of irrigation managementinitiated

 Systemfor updatingofRecordsofRights inplace               Ensure better coordination and rationalization of Registry
                                                           Ofjce with the TehsilAdministration towards an
 Establishment of representative Steering Committee and    integrated and userfriendly land administration; delegate
 TasYorce to guide land administration modernization       decision-making authority, particularly tofrontline
process                                                    0ficers;initiate stepsfor e-governance of land records;
                                                           and launch survey and digitization workfor transparent
                                                           settlement of un-demarcated lands (including 210% slope)
 Go0 order (14643-R-S-6012000)allowing settlement of
 landupto 30% slope and usufructrights on landsbeyond      Initiate discussionon reform o ftenancy legislation to
 30% slope infavor of tribal shifting cultivators          enhance productivity andaccess of tenant farmers to bank
                                                           credit, with adequateprotectionof all stakeholder interests




                                                                1

                                                                                                             LDP attachment A
iorestry, Watershed and Fisheries
Ievelopment of comprehensiveforest sector vision and         Filling of critical vacancies in Forest Department through
trategy, with broad stakeholder inputs                       re-deployment and contractual appointments, and
                                                             abolition of redundant positions; delegation of decision
                                                             makingpower tofield basedforest oflicers; and revised
                                                             guidelinesfor Joint Forest Management - to support a
                                                             change management process oriented towards effective
                                                             community basedforestry.

                                                             Review of Orissaforest code underlingcommunity-based
                                                             forestryto strengthenlocal governance, develop more
                                                             efficientforest tenure models, simplify rules and
                                                             proceduresand openupwider marketingchannels.

NatershedMission established                                 Establish dedicated coordinators with suflicient decision-
                                                             makingpowersfor watershed management in at least 14
idoption of sector-wide livelihood-based watershed           districts, with activeparticipationfrom the Forest Dept.
ievelopment in 4 districts
                                                             Build vision, strategy, and capacityfor comprehensive
3iscussions with key stakeholders to gauge support for       fisheries policy
:apacity building andpolicy reforms infisheries sector
                                                             Preparedistrict-wisefisheries infrastructuredevelopment
                                                             plans, alongwith specificationof envisagedprivate
                                                             investmentsandrequiredpublic investments

Public Enterprise Reform

Tontinue implementation of (non-power) Public                Continue implementation of PE reforms, including
5nterprise reforms, including sale of assets of closed       privatization of at least 2 additional units in 2006-07 and
rnits, andprivatization of at least 2 additional units.      restructuring of 4 units

Initiate environmental screening processfor 20
znterprises to be sold/closed under the reform               Complete environmental screening/audit for at least 10
wograrnme.                                                   units covered by the reform programme

Power Sector Reform

lnitiate implementation of the order dated February 28,      Ensure timely implementation of approved Business Plan;
2005, passed by the Orissa Electricity Regulatory            of the discoms including invoking remedies, conductin>
Commission, relating to the business plan of the             independent energy audits, ensuringfull payment by stat(
Distribution Companies, to improvefinancial viability of     government departments and local bodies, benchmarkin>
the sector, including: (i) reconciliation and settlement of  andpublicly disseminating key performance data
oast electricity dues between the largest consuming
government department and CESCO; (ii) payment of             Monitor effectiveness of the theft reduction programme,

current electricity bills by state government departments    including the special police stations and the designation of

to the Distribution Companies on an average of at least      existing courts to try cases involving electricity theft
90%of billing in Fiscal Year 2005-2006; (iii) execution      Establish a monitoring system to track expansion in rural
of agreements between CESCO and at least two                 connectivity and quality of service, impact on economic
municipal authoritiesfor ensuring discipline in the supply   growth, cost of supply (incl. technical and commercial
of andpayments for electricity; and (iv) initiation of steps losses), revenues and 'last mile' arrangements
to designate existing courts to try electricity theft cases  Strengthen the corporate structures of state-ownedpower
                                                             companies




                                                                  2

                                                                                                          LDP attachment A
legulatory Framework for Private Enterprise

Jotlfication of the Orissa Industries (Facilitation) Act  Adoption of Policy on Public Private Partnership in
nd Rules, including a Combined Application Form,          lnfrastructure
hereby reducing the number of application clearance
wms requiredfor establishment of industriesfrom I 8 to     Initiate implementation by OPCB of a capacity

'ne                                                        strengthening action plan, including (i) govt. approval of
                                                           staffing plan, including redeployment, and (ii)
:omplete capacity needs assessment of Orissa Pollution     rationalization of consent (CTO) duration based on
:ontrol Board (OPCB) and develop a capacity                environmental and social risk
trengthening action plan.                                  Operationalize the single window clearance system at the
Jndertake a review of international and local experiences  state level andfor projects below Rs 500 million at two
fbenefit sharingfrom natural resource based growth         district level pilot sites viz. Bhubaneswar and Jajpur; and
                                                           set up monitoring system to track time takenfor clearances

                                                           Start strengthening capacity to improve effectiveness of
                                                          forest conservation measures andforest clearance process
                                                          for industrialprojects.

                                                           Establish institutional and policy framework for equitable
                                                           benefit sharing from natural resource based growth
;I.ISCAL FINANCIAL
                 REFORMS,                            MANAGEMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY
?iscalSustainability

'rimary Fiscal surplus achieved in2004-05.                 Fiscal outcomes in 2005-06, budget execution in 2006-07
                                                           and targetsfor 2007-08 in compliance with the Orissa
3rissa Fiscal Responsibility & Budget Management Act       FRBM Act
znacted; primary surplus achieved in 2004/05 with
werall deficit less than 3.5%of GSDP; execution ofthe      Orissa's finances on a sustainable path, including
?005/06budget and targetsfor 2006107 consistent with       elimination o f revenue deficit and less than 3% of GSDP
he FR&BM Act                                               fiscal deficit by 2008-09; debt lower than 275% of total
                                                           revenue and interest less than 20% o f total revenue by
                                                           2009-10, both on a declining path.

Revenue Reforms

Implement state-level VATeffective April I,2005             Establish standard land valuation report as basisfor
                                                            valuation in determination of stamp duty and regn.fees
Rationalize motor vehicle tax rates and strengthen          Simplifv procedure for conversion of agricultural land for
Idministration o f state excise on liquor.                  other use
                                                            Amend Registration Act to disallow registration oj
                                                            transactions where land has been under-valued
                                                            Enact Orissa Excise Act, a comprehensive law relating tc
                                                            alcoholic liquor and other intoxicants, replacing the Bihai
                                                            and Orissa Excise Act, 1915

                                                            Rationalize classification of land and rent structure, with
                                                            number of categories reducedfrom 133 to less than 10




                                                                 3

                                                                                                                        nent A
ExpenditureRestructuring

?educethe share of salaries in the state S own revenues    Reduce, in 2006-07, the share of salaries in the state's own
>om 89% in 2003-04 to below 80% in 2004-05 and             revenues and in current expenditure (net of interest and
zstimated 75% in 2005-06; and the share of salaries in     pensions) to less than their corresponding levels in 2005-
:urrent expenditure( net of interest andpension) from       06
j7% in 2003-04 to below 54% in 2004-05, and estimated
'essthan 50% in 2005-06                                     Increase share o fnon-salary component o f total
                                                            expenditure on Human Development- education, health,
Sovernment decision to introduce a defined contribution     water and sanitation, nutrition, PDS, targeted welfare and
?ensionschemefor new civil service entrants                 anti-poverty programmes.

                                                            Institutional arrangementsfor defined contribution
                                                           pension schemefor new civil service entrants to be
                                                           finalized and madefully operational.

                                                            Develop a pensioners module for inclusion in the HRMIS
                                                            and refine the audit mechanism for periodic updates
                                                            (regular as well as family pensioners) in the state

                                                            Newly hired employees under the N e w Pension Scheme
                                                            (NPS) receive annual statements on personal information
                                                            and account balances.


Public FinancialManagement& Accountability

Improved ratio of actual spending to targeted outlay in the Successful implementation of Treasury computerization
Annual Plan 2004/05; Improved utilization of centrally      and networking including sub-treasuries in 6 districts; web
financed and eo-financed schemes in 2005/06; and            based computerized accounting and reporting systems
completion of at least 50 identifed high-priority           operational at district & block level, initiated at GP level
infrastructure investment schemes in 2004-05 and 2005-06    Preparation of easy ready reference for Drawing and
Implementation offirst phase of Development Action Plan,    Disbursement Officers (DDOs) and Controlling Officers
based onfindings of StateFinancial Accountability           and an Internal Audit Manual
Assessment, including enhanced level of disclosure of
financial information in budget documents, and updated      Progress in disposal of draft paragraphs in inspection
month-end accounts of rural local bodiesposted on Go0       reports, pending audit paragraphs and recommendations

Website                                                     of the Public Accounts Committee

                                                            Reduction inthe backlog of audits o f public enterprises

ProcurementReforms and other Anti-Corruption [easures

Government approval o f Anti-Conuption Action Plan,         Implementation ofprocurement reforms component of the
covering measures to strengthen prevention, enforcement     Anti-Corruption Action Plan, including (ii) posting of
and public awareness, and including systemic reforms in     tenders and contracts awarded by theparticipating
public procurement                                          departments (Works, Rural Development, Water
                                                            Resources; Housing and Urban Deve1opment)on the
                                                            official website; and (ii) e-procurementfor all
                                                            procurement above Rupees 10 million in at least one of the
                                                            participating departments

                                                            Implement e-procurement for procurement above Rs. 10
                                                            million by all departments

                                                            Establishfully functional internal vigilance units in Depts
                                                            of Water Resources, Rural Development, PRaj and Works.

                                                             Three more Special Judge Courts made operational
                                                             Survey conducted to assess citizens' experience and
                                                            perceptions o f corruption in selected public services




                                                                 4

                                                                                                         LDP attach ent A
[II. PUBLICSERVICE DELIVERY AND HUMANDEVELOPMENT.
3ross-cuttingReformsin PublicAdministration

7stablish appropriate institutional mechanisms to          Basic data on civil servants including employee name, date
wersee, monitor and communicate Governance reforms         of birth, date of entry, unique employee code, current
                                                           posting and details ofpay entered into HR databasefor
Zontinue implementation of civil service reforms,          all employees of at least 6 districts.
ncluding (i) continued reduction in the salary billfor
emporary workers; (ii) identijication of vacant regular    Complete HR database coverage of all employees and
7ostsfor abolition, of which over 15,000abolished during   pensioners.
4pril2004 -April 2006; and (iii) continued staff
eedeployment.                                              Policy on Staff redeployment established and mechanisms
                                                           put in place to deploy surplus manpower through
                                                           establishment of a central database of surplus employees.

                                                           Establish processfor identtfying stafing needs of
                                                           departments and districts. (GAD/Finance)

                                                           Review institutional constraintsfacing the district
                                                           administration, withparticular reference to schemes of the
                                                           Dept of Panchayati Raj; and decide on measures to
                                                           strengthen coordination and monitoring. (GA/PRaj Depts)




Education

Issue Government Order to empower VillageEducation         Every Gram Panchayat and elementary school to display
Committees to certifL teacher attendance in elementary     information on resources allocatedfor elementary
schools                                                    education, with names andpictures of teachers designated
                                                           for that area
Finalization of Reorganization Action Plan along the
lines of the Organizational Review of the Department of    Implement measures to enhance teacher accountability in
School & Mass Education; and abolition of vacant non-      elementary education, including certification of teachers'
teachingpositions.                                         attendance by village education committees

Strict enforcement of qualification criteria for grant     Conduct achievement survey in Grades 4 & 5 to establish
receiving colleges and schools, andreplacementof salary    benchmarksfor learning achievement at primary schools
basedgrantsby block grants
                                                           Conductpublic expenditure tracking survey in elementary
                                                           education to assess exp quality and cost-effectiveness
Health

Initiate implementation of short-term recommendations of   Begin implementation of Orissa Health Sector Plan,
Organizational Review of the Department of Health,         including establishment of institutional arrangements to
including abolition of someposts and conversion of
paramedics to district cadre                               accelerate improvements in MDG-related health outcomes
                                                           through health programmes and multi-sector initiatives
Develop and approve Orissa Health Sector Plan (OHSP)
to achievepriority health outcomes, including effective    Ensure that health budgetfor 2007-08 reflects MTEF.
health spending and efficientpnancial management based
on a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF)

Progressin implementing the drug management policy:        Develop and make operational an independent systemfor

standard treatment guidelines developed andbeing           regular and timely monitoring ofkey health output

utilized; health facility managers indenting for drugs as  indicators at the district level which can be linked to

per localneed; and computerizeddruginventory               expenditures and key social and demographic variables.

management system functional.




                                                                5

                                                                                                            LDP attachment A
Social Protection and Women's Empowerment

Government authorization of women's self help groups       Conduct assessment of the effectiveness of current
(SHGs) to deliver mid-day meals in elementary schools      institutional roles and responsibilitiesin delivery of anti-
                                                           poverty programmes(of different levels of govt and SHGs),
                                                           & develop an Action Planto promotecloser alignment of
                                                           financial and human resource capacitywith functions

Conduct a Public Expenditure TrackingStudy covering        Based on programme analysis and district pilot, develop an,
supplementary nutrition and rural employment               initiate implementation of an Action Plan to strengthen
programmes                                                 efficiency, accountability and delivery of food distribution
                                                           programmes (Deptxof Food, Women & Child Dev. And
                                                           Panchayai Raj)

 Other Service Delivery Initiatives
 Computerization of driving license and motor registration Business re-engineering to improve municipal services
piloted in three locations.                                including buildingpermissions, birth & death registration,
                                                           andproperty tax (Housing and Urban Development Dept.)

 Develop an integrated IT strategy for Governmentprocess   Pilot a caseload management system to improve litigation
 reengineering.                                            management by GOO,reduce departmental workload and
                                                           improveproductivity (Gen Administration Department)

 Programmeof training ofrural local body officials and     Study devolution index compared to other states, and
 elected representativesinitiated, following               identifl measures to strengthen devolution to rural local
 recommendationsof training needsassessment.               bodies, including PRIs and PESAs (Panchayati Raj and SC
                                                           /STDevelopment Departmens)

~Poverty and Human Development Monitoring

 HumanDevelopment Report 2004 publishedby GOO,             Provisionalpoverty estimatesfor Orissa based on the State
 presentingcomprehensivedistrict wise data on poverty      sample of the NSS 61" round computed andpresentedfor
 and social indicators.                                    initial policy discussions (April 06)

 Implement programme to strengthen the statistical system   Training of statistical district officers completed (July 06);
 and sign2Jicantly reduce the delays in availability of    State sample (NSS 61'' round) data analyzed andpublished
 poverty related data.                                      (August 06)

 Establish a Poverty & Human Development Monitoring         Computerization of district ofices complete and devolution
 Agency toprovide technical inputs to the Pov Task Force.   of data entry to district offices initiated (Dec 06)




                                                                 6

                                                                                                         LDP attachment B

                          OSED Programme: Monitorable Indicators

              ITEM                                           INDICATORS                                    VlPLEMENTlNG
                                                                                                               DEPTT.

4. Economic Reforms for iclusive Growth

Morevibrant and diversified             9 Number of paanipanchayats establishedandfunctioning              Water Resource
narket oriented agriculture with          (annual)
2etter secured land property rights     > Mln hectaresof irrigatedland under user group management         Water Resources
                                          (1.Iby 2006-07 & 1.4 by 2007-08)
                                        > Proportionof agricultural produce sold outsidegovernment
                                          operated markets (Yo)                                            Co-operation

                                        9 Cumulativearea of undemarcatedlandsurveyed (15,000by
                                          06-07 and 25,000 by 07-08)                                       Revenue

Enhance income earning                  > Share of forest communities in gross income from kendu leaf      F&E
Dpportunitiesfor tribal                   sales (to be increasedeach year, from 30% in 2005-06) la
communities resident inforests          > Numberof criticalfield levelvacancies in the Forest
                                          Department(to be reduced each year, from 2500 in 2005-06)

Sustain high rates of broad based       9 Numberof application forms (from18in 2004-05 to 1in 05-06)
growth of Orissa economy led by
private industrial investments,         9 Numberof inspections(from12in2004-05 to 6 in05-06)                Industries
with effective environmental due        9 CumulativeNumber of PPP transactions( 1 by 2006-07 and 3
diligence                                 by 2007-08)
                                        > Percentageof consentapplications carriedforward (reduce
                                          from base level of 25% in 2005-06)
                                        P Numberof industrialunits covered by environmentalinspection

Withdrawal of the State from            P Numberof unviableenterprises closed
commercial activities and
expanding space for private             9 Value of assets sold                                             '.E.
enterprise                              9 Cumulativenumber of units privatized(3 by 2005-06 and 5 by
                                          06-07)

To improvefinancial performance         P Rate of paymentof current power bills by govt departments
of the power sector, reliability of       (90Y0in 2005-06 and 95% in 06-07)                                Energy
supply and expand rural access          P Rate of paymentof current power bills by urban local bodies
                                          (bimonthly)

B. Fiscal reforms, Financial Management & Accountability
To achieve fiscal sustainability9      13 Primary (non-'nterest)fiscal Daiance as ratio of GSDP (>1.5y0
avoid a debt trap and create fiscal       every year unt:l 2007-08)
space for well designed
development initiatives                 3 Fiscal deficit as ratio of GSDP ( ~ 3 %every year )
                                        i RevenueDeficit(reducedtozeroby2008-09)                           F.D.

                                        i RatioofDebttoRevenueReceipts(reaucedtolessthan275%
                                          by 2007-08)
                                        3 Ratio of Interestto Revenue Receipts( ~ 2 6 %in 2005-06, c23Y
                                          by 07-08 and ~ 2 0 %by 09-10)

Improve composition of public           P Ratio of salary bill to state's own revenue (less than 80% in
spending to encourage economic            2004-05, 75% in 2005-06and 70% in 2006-07)
growth and development                  P Ratio of salary bill to current expenditure,net of interest &
                                          pension (e50% in 2005-06and declining each year thereafter        FD
                                          until 09-10)
                                        9 Non-salaryexpenditureon Human Development           -education,
                                           health,social welfare and povertyalleviation programmes (in
                                           Rupees, annual)




                                                                  1

                                                                                                            LDP attachment B

Improve budget formulation,            9 Ratioof actual to targetedState Planexpenditure (295% in               -D/P&C
budget execution, accounts,                 2004-05 and in each year thereafter)
reporting and accountability, to
achieve improved composition           h Utilizationof centralassistance(utilizationcertificates

and quality of public resource use          submittedas ratioof pending at beginning-of-year)raisedfrom
                                            68% in 2004-05 to over 73% in 2005-06, 80% by 06-07 & 90%           -DlP&C
                                            by 07-08)
                                       >     Rateof responseto 'draft paras' in the inspectionreport and
                                            final observationsin the audit report of the CAG                    FD/All Deptts



Measures to reduce corruption           >    Pendency of Departmentalproceedings against the retired            GNAII Deptts.
and increase value from money                employees reducedby 80% in 07-08 over 05-06
through more transparent and            9    Numberof Departmentalinquiries pending ( reducedfrom               GNAII Deptts.
competitive process of public                2100 in March 2006 )
procurement                             9    Contracts awarded through e-procurement (all contractsabove        IT/Works/ WR/ RDI
                                             Rs. 1crore in at least one dept. in 06-07, in all four             H&UD
                                             participatingdepts. in 07-08, and in all Depts.by 08-09).

C. Public Service Deliverv & Human DeveloDment
Streamline public administration        >    Number of vacant base level positions abolished (at least           FD
by eliminating obsolete or                   15,000 during 2004-06 and another 6,000 during 2006-08)
unnecessary functions                   >    Cumulative number of staff redeployed (1800 by 05-06, 2400          G.A
                                        >    by 06-07 and 3000 by 07-08)
                                             Reductionin average time required for mutationof sale deed          Revenue
Improve effectiveness of public
service delivery in education           9    Indicatorof teacher accountability (such as rate of attendance)    S&ME
sector                                       -to be assured through impact evaluation in 2007-08

Improve effectiveness of public         >    Minimum level of child immunization coverageachieved in all         H&FW
service delivery in health sector            districts (65% by 06-07 & 80% by 07-08)


 a/ The 30% share in 2004-05 is a rough estimate,to be confirmed;following availability of more diverse and reliable data, the scope of
 monitoringwill be expanded to include more itemsof forest produce




                                                                   2

I l l                                1




              I_-    I
                         0
                          v,
                           0
                     IO    r 4




         s    I$
         0

                                  I L

I'

      vl    I



      m

m

,v2 3 2v
     3   svi   g    s
          M                       a:
          N     N    3            13
            V    V    iA
                      V           p'



                         d
                         9
                         m
                         0         m
                                   0
                      s" a.-C:
                      zv p3'




                                        m




                                        Qa
                                        m
                                        c



                                        0

                                        f
                                        m
                                        W
                                        35


            9
            0 ) I
            r-
            d




            0
            2      0
                   0
                   d
                   N

            U




            0
            9
            0
            -r
            e   1 s0


        I
0
13
                  1  %
N     0




     I o




    0  f

7--




       rr
       O  B

3

N

m

.-v1
e,
0
8
6>
0
OD




             k
             U
             Y




             2
             .-cl
        F     VI
              0
              &
             7s
              0
             7s
              0


             ecd


c-l
0
C
W

c
2
a




.e
cE
 al
 a
 0
e0sa
3




  c8u
   s


                                                                                                                       Annex 4

IMFExecutive Board Concludes 2005Article IV Consultationwith India
Public InformationNotice (PIN) No. 06117
February 21,2006
 Public Information Notices (PIN) form part of the IMF's efforts to promotetransparency of the IMF'sviews and analysiso f
 economic developments andpolicies. With the consent ofthe country (or countries) concerned, PINs are issuedafter Executive
 Board discussions o f Article IV consultationswith membercountries, of its surveillance of developmentsat the regionallevel,
 of post-programmonitoring, and of ex post assessmentsofmember countrieswith longer-term program engagements.PINs are
 also issuedafter ExecutiveBoarddiscussions ofgeneral policy matters, unless otherwisedecidedby the Executive Board ina
 particular case. The staff report (use the free Adobe Acrobat Rcadcr to view this pdf file) for the 2005 Article IV consultation
 with Indiais also available.


On February 6, 2006, the Executive Board o f the International Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV
consultation with India.'

Background

India's growth has remained robust in 2005106 following a strong performance last year. With rapid growth in
services broadening to encompass industry, GDP growth in 2004105, at 7% percent (recently revised upward from
6.9percent) was above the historical trend. Strong momentum in manufacturing and services has continued,
resulting in rising capacity utilization and soaring business confidence. Staff projects growth o f over 1%percent
this year, led by strong domestic demand, and broadly inline with the ReserveBank o f India (RBI) and consensus
forecasts. In 2006107, growth i s expected to decline slightly as the economy further adjusts to higher oil prices and
domestic and world interest rates rise.

While inflation remains low, underlying pressures from buoyant domestic demand and higher international energy
prices remain strong. Steps taken by the RBI to tighten liquidity in2004105, including raising reserve requirements
and policy interest rates, and incomplete pass-through o f higher oil prices helped keep WPI inflation low. With
headline inflation hovering around 4% percent year on year, the RBI raised overnight rep0 rates again in October
2005 and January of 2006, by a cumulative 50 basis points, citing concerns about the rapid pace o f aggregate
demand and monetary growth and high oil prices. Staff projects inflation to rise from an average o f about
4% percent in2005106 to 5% percent in2006107, inpart reflecting the adjustment o f administered fuel prices.

After several years of current account surpluses and growing reserves, the investment recovery and consumption
boom have pushed the external current account into deficit. In 2004105, the trade deficit widened to over
5% percent o f GDP and the current account reverted into deficit for the first time in three years, notwithstanding
highgrowth inservices income. While export growth continues to be strong, a large increase inboth oil and non-oil
imports caused the trade deficit to widen further this year, and contribute to a sharp deterioration in the current
account deficit. Staff projects it to reach 3 percent o f GDP in2005106.

The balance o f payments position remains comfortable with strong capital inflows helping finance the growing
current account deficit. In 2004105, close to half o f all capital inflows were debt creating, as Indian corporates took
advantage of favorable global interest rates, an appreciating rupee, and the liberalization o f restrictions o n external
commercial borrowings to borrow abroad. While portfolio flows have continued to gain importance, FDI inflows
remained weak. So far this fiscal year, capital inflows have remained strong and reserves have only fallen modestly
as a result o f the redemption o f the India MillenniumDeposits. While more reliance on debt and portfolio inflows
has increased India's susceptibility to changes ininvestor sentiment, ample reserves and remaining capital controls
limit risks of potentialreversals.


Asset markets have strengthened. Net foreign investor inflows have accelerated since mid-2005, as equity prices
soared. Equity prices are up around 50 percent from end-April. Ample liquidity and historically l o w interest rates
also helped fuel property prices, which have risen in major cities by over 20 percent annually over the past two
years. Concerned with speculative pressures, the RBI has raised risk-weights o n housing and real estate loans and
imposed controls on real estate investments aimed at curbing speculative FDIinflows.




                                                                1

                                                                                                                 Annex 4
The exchange rate has exhibited increased two-way flexibility. In the eight months to June 2005, the RBI scaled
back intervention in foreign exchange markets and the rupee appreciated by 4 percent against the dollar (6% percent
inreal effective terms). In the second half of 2005,-with       the exception o f a six-week period following China's
July 21 revaluation, when the RBI intervened to stem appreciation pressures-the            rupee depreciated, reflecting
pressures from the growing current account deficit and renewed U.S. dollar strength.

Following three years of declining fiscal deficits, a "pause" in deficit reduction was announced for 2005106. The
central government deficit came inbelow target in 2004105 for the second consecutive year at 4.1 percent o f GDP
(authorities' definition, including privatization receipts as revenue), helped by a cyclical rebound inrevenue and
expenditure compression, but also reflecting greater recourse to off-budget petroleum subsidies. Ths, together with
a 0.8 percentage points reduction in subnational deficits, contnbuted to a fall in the general government deficit to
under 7% percent o f GDP, enough to stabilize public debt at about 86 percent o f GDP. The 2005106 Budget deficit
target o f 4.3 percent of GDP falls short o f the minimumreduction required by the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget
Management Act. This reflected significant spending increases for key social and infrastructure needs and higher
transfers to the states. The general government deficit i s projected by staff to rise, for the first time in four years, to
7%percent o f GDP.

The banking sector has continued to strengthen but some risks remain. Commercialbanks have continued to reduce
nonperforming assets, and aggregate capital adequacy remains high. Banks have reduced their exposure to interest
rate risks, decreasing their holdings o f government paper and shortening maturity. Declining profitability due to
rising interest rates has been in part offset by higher credit growth. However, interest rate risk remains a concern
with bank holdings of government paper (at 38 percent o f assets) still high and in excess o f statutory requirements.
At the same time, rapid credit growth raises concerns about credit quality and cooperative banks, accounting for
about 6 percent o f banking system assets, remain inpoor health.

Executive Board Assessment

Executive Directors noted that the Indian economy i s continuing to reap the rewards o f more than 15 years o f
reforms. Notwithstanding high world oil prices and a weak monsoon, the economy showed remarkable resilience
in2004105, with growthremaining robust and becoming broader-based. These trends have continued in2005106,
 and growth of more than 7%percent for the fillyear is expected.

Directors supported the broad objectives o f the government's economic program, in particular addressing
 infrastructure bottlenecks, alleviating rural poverty, and deepening global integration. They noted that current
 favorable economic conditions provide a good opportunity to speed structural reforms. In particular, measures to
 improve the business climate and reform labor laws would have a large pay-off by fostering private and foreign
 investment and job creation. With an acceleration o f the reform process, India would be able to achieve sustained
 economic growth o f 8-10 percent, inline with the objectives o f the authorities.

 Directors emphasized that macroeconomic policies should remain vigilant, inview o f the evolving macroeconomic
 situation. Although inflation has remained contained, underlying pressures point to upside risks. In particular,
 domestic demand remains strong, as evidenced by a widening current account deficit and rapid credit growth. In
 tl-i~scontext, Directors recommended that fiscal policy should counter demand pressures, and they underlined the
 importance o f overperforming o n the budget and meeting the minimum adjustment required under the Fiscal
 Responsibility and Budget Management Act. This would not only be an appropriate macroeconomic policy
 response, but would also bolster the credibility of the Act and allow the central government to lead by example in
 efforts to encourage adjustment at the state level. In this regard, some Directors cautioned that markets might
 interpret the pause indeficit reductioninthe current fiscal year as a weakening o f the commitment to reform.

 Directors underscoredthe need for the Indian economy to adapt to permanently higher international oil prices. They
 recommended moving gradually to the fillpass-through o f oil prices-with          targeted support for the poor-which
 would help limit fiscal and quasi-fiscal losses and provide incentives for more efficient energy use, thus aiding
 competitiveness inthe medium term.

 Directors considered that monetary policy should remain focused on keeping inflation expectations in check. The
 increases in the reverse rep0 rate by the Reserve Bank of India in October 2005 and January 2006 were seen as



                                                             2

                                                                                                             Annex 4
appropriate, signaling the RBI's commitment to price stability and helping the adjustment to higher global interest
rates. Directors welcomed the RBI's continued two-way flexibility inexchange rate management.

Directors noted that, notwithstanding the deficit reduction achieved since 2001102, India's large public debt remains
a key constraint o n growth. Without further enhancing tax revenues and reducing lower-priority spending, i t will be
difficult to create fiscal space for the planned large and crucial increases in infrastructure and social spending. In
addition, with credit to the private sector rising fast, the risk that government borrowing needs will crowd-out the
private sector has increased. Directors observed that fiscal consolidation is a prerequisite for more complete
financial sector development and further opening up o f the capital account.

Directors viewed an acceleration o f tax reform as critical to achieve the government's deficit reduction targets. They
welcomed the introduction o f the value-added tax in most states and steps to widen the services tax base and
modernize tax administration. Directors underscored the need to further broaden the tax base by trimming existing
exemptions and eventually introducing a goods and services tax with few exemptions. Directors looked forward to
the planned development o f tax expenditure estimates, whichwould provide a valuable tool for resisting attempts to
introduce new inefficient tax incentives.

Directors observed that greater spending efficiency, inparticular improved targeting o f subsidies, would be required
to generate the needed fiscal adjustment. They viewed the government's 2004 subsidy reform blueprint as
appropriate, and urged its rapid implementation. Directors underlined that the new rural employment program
represents a potentially large expenditure commitment, and advised the government to proceed cautiously with it.

Directors welcomed the initiation o f pension reform. The passage o f the Pension Bill would allow the introduction
o f fully funded, defined contribution pensions, which in turn would help ensure a secure source o f retirement
income and aid in the development o f capital markets. However, Directors pointed out that revisions to the existing
defined benefit schemes for civil servants are also required to reduce large unfunded pension liabilities.

Directors noted that states have succeeded, in the aggregate, in reducing their deficits in recent years, and they
welcomed recent reforms undertaken in the context o f the Twelfth Finance Commission to further strengthen state
finances.  These reforms provide states with greater resources and incentives to undertake fiscal reform. However,
Directors emphasized that state finances could be further strengthened by increasing conditionality and hardening
budget constraints, including via tighter global borrowing ceilings. They called for consolidating the recent gains
through tax base broadening and further reforms in the pension, subsidy, and state electric utility areas. Directors
were encouraged that a number o f states have already shifted to defined contribution pension systems and enacted
fiscal responsibility laws.

Directors supported the government's emphasis o n public-private partnerships to ensure greater private participation
in investments in infrastructure. However, they cautioned that an improved regulatory framework and financial
reforms to broaden the investor base are also needed. Directors viewed the 2003 Electricity Act as a solid
framework for reform, and advised that it be implementedquickly.

Directors commended the underlying strength of financial regulation and the effective response to recent rapid
 credit growth. They advised close monitoring o f fast-growing credit card debt. A further strengthening o f prudential
 standards could be considered, where appropriate. Reliance on priority sector lending floors to deliver credit to
 agriculture and small and medium-sized enterprises could be reduced by addressing needed structural reforms in
 lending. Regulation should also be strengthened for cooperative banks. Directors urged the RBI to ensure readiness
 for the planned move to Base1 I1by continuing to enhance monitoring o f banks' risk management systems, upgrade
 supervisory skills, and strengthen disclosure requirements. Directors considered that the current sound position o f
 the financial system provides a good basis for its further deepening, in particular through increasing private and
 foreign participation in the banking sector, including by accelerating implementation o f the R B I ' s banking reform
roadmap.

 Directors emphasized that further opening o f the economy would allow it to reach its full growth potential. While
 they commended the progress already made in bringing down tariff levels, they noted that faster convergence to
 ASEAN levels would be desirable. Broad-based tariff reductions would also help minimize the trade diversion
 potentially associated with preferential trade arrangements. Also, continued loosening of sectoral limits o n foreign



                                                             3

                                                                                                            Annex 4
direct investment, together with efforts to improve the business climate and liberalize labor laws, could foster
growth and job creation, while reducing India's reliance on shorter-term capital flows. Some Directors noted that
further privatization could spur efficiency gains and provide resources to reduce the public debt. Directors urged the
authorities to consider labor market reforms, including expanded contract employment and streamlined labor
regulations and reportingrequirements. Such flexibility would be key to ensuring that India can generatejobs for its
rapidly expanding labor force.


                                            India: SelectedEconomic Indicators 1/



                                                           2001102   2002103   2003104  2004105    2005106




       Domestic economy

       Change inreal GDP at factor cost (base year             5.8       3.8       8.5       7.5        7.6 21
       199912000)

       Change in industrial production                         2.7       5.7       7.0       8.4         ...

       Change inwholesale prices (period average)              3.4        3.4      5.4       6.4        4.7 21

       Change in consumer prices (period average)              4.3       4.0       3.9       3.8        4.5 21



       External economy

       Merchandiseexports 31                                  44.7       53.8     64.7      80.8       97.3 21

       Merchandise imports 31                                  56.3      64.5     80.2     119.0      161.7 21

       Current account balance 31                              3.4        6.3     10.6       -6.4     -23.1 21

       (InpercentofGDP)                                        0.7        1.2       1.8      -0.9      -3.0 21

       Direct investment,net 31 41                             4.7        3.2      3.4        3.0       4.6 21

       Portfolio investment, net 31                            2.0        0.9     11.4        8.9       9.3 21

       Capital account balance 31                               8.6      10.8     16.7      31.0       27.5 21

       Gross official reserves 51                              54.7      76.1     113.0    141.5      139.5 101

       (Inmonthsofimports) 61                                   8.0       9.3       8.7       7.7        5.7 101

        External debt (inpercent of GDP) 51                    20.7      20.6      18.6      17.9      17.9 21

        Short-term debt (inpercent of GDP) 5171                 3.0       3.8       1.9       2.7        2.4 21

       Debt service ratio (inpercent of current receipts)      13.8      16.3      16.3       4.7        6.9 21

        Change inreal effective exchange rate (in               1.8      -5.4      -0.9       1.3        5.4 111
       percent)51



        Financial variables

        Central government balance (inpercent of GDP)          -6.4      -6.0      -5.1      -4.3       -4.3 21
        81

        General government balance(inpercent of               -10.1      -9.7      -9.0      -7.4       -7.7 21
        GDP) 81

        Change inbroadmoney (inpercent) 51                     14.1      14.7      16.7      12.4       17.7 11/




                                                             4

                                                                                                                        Annex 4

       Interest rate 51 91                                            6.1         5.9        4.2       5.3          6.7 121



       Sources: International Financial Statistics; Reserve Bank o f India; Ministry o f Finance; CEIC; and Fund staff
       estimates.
        l i Data are for April-March fiscal years as available at the time o fthe Executive Board meeting, unless otherwise
       indicated.
       2/ Staff projections for 2005106.
       31 Based on balance-of-payments data available as o f December 23,2005.
       41Net foreign direct investment inIndia less net foreign investment abroad.
       51 Endo f period.
       61 Imports o f goods and services projected over the following twelve months.
       71Residual maturitybasis, except contracted maturity basis for medium- and long-term nonresident Indian
       accounts.
        81 Excluding divestment receipts from revenues and onlending of small saving collections from expenditures and
       net lending.
        9/ 91-day Treasury Billrate.
        101As o f January 27,2006.
        1 11A s o f December 3 1,2005.
        121As o f January 3 1,2006.

!-UnderArticleIVoftheIMF's Articles ofAgreement, theIMFholdsbilateral discussionswithmembers, usuallyeveryyear. A
staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and discusses with officials the country's economic
developments and policies. On return to headquarters, the staff prepares a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the
Executive Board. At the conclusion o f the discussion, the Managing Director, as Chairman o f the Board, summarizes the views
of Executive Directors, and this summary is transmitted to the country's authorities.




                                                                    5

                                                                                                 Annex 5
                                       Government of Orissa


I
i                                              . FORM-.I
                          FISCAL POLICY STRATEGY STATEMENT
                                           '   {See Rule 4 (1))
!
                                          -
 ~




 1
 I      A. FISCAL POLICYOVERVIEW
  III            Fiscal imbalance has been an impediment to faster growth and development of the
        State. To correct the structural imbalance, Government of Onssa have taken a number of
        measures. These include moderation of growth of revenue expenditure and introduction of
        several revenue augmentation measures: As a result of such measures, Orissa has been             ' ,
. /     able to moderaterevenueand fiscal deficits as indicatedbelow.
  I!,       (i)      State's own tax revenue as percentage of GSDP has increased from 4.4% in
                     1999-2000to 6.4% in 2003-04 and 7.2% in.2004-05.    '

            (ii)     The Revenue 'Deficit has reduced from Rs.2574.19 crore in 1999-2000.to
                     Rs.1420.92 crore in 2003-04 and Rs.522.30crore in 2004-05. As percentage of
                     GSDP, this representsreduction from 6.7% in 1999-2000 to 2.6% in 2003-04 and           ..
                     0.91% in 2004-05.
            (iii)    The Fiscal Deficit has been reduced from Rs.3836.44 cmre in 2999-2000 to
                     Rs.2469.94 crore in 2003-04 and Rs.1365.99 crore in 2004-05; As percentageof
                     GSDP, this represents,reduction from 9.7% in 1999-2000 to 4.6% in 2003-04
                     2.37% in 200445.
            (iv)  '  The Debt stock which was 341%of total revenue in 2001-02 has been reduced
                     to 335% in 2003-04 and 288.5% in 2004:05.
            (v)
            . .      Similarly, Interest payment as percentage of revenue receipt has already been
     I               reducedfrom 40.2?i0  in 2001-02 to 30.3%in 2003-04 and 28.1% in 2004-05.
                                                  .r -
     I

     I           The GSDP growth for the State-Tn-2004-05 was 7.07%. Comparative figures of
        sectoral growths during lheyear 2003-04 and 2004-05 is given in the Table below.

                        MAJOR SECTORAL CONTRIBUTION8 GROWTH OF GSDP .




        0 Quick Estimates : A-Advance Estimates
          -




                 It can be seen from the Tables above that there is a large variation in.the real growth
        rate of GSDP from 1999-2000 to 2004-05 (Advance Estimates) in the range of--Q.70%to

                                                           .    .
  ~


14.40%. Similarly, the nominalgrowth rate of GSDP vanes,from'0.30% to.as high.as 21.30%.
The average growth rate. of GSDP. in constant ,prices from 1999-2000'10 2004-05 (AE) is
4.59% and the annual average growth rate qf GSDP.at Cu(ent.Pnces is 8.57% during the
same period. It is impitant io menfion here that Twelfth Finance Commission have assumed
a nominal growth rate of 11%in GSDP for Odssa (page 383 of .the Report), It may also be
noted that the growth rate of GSDP,during 'the Tenth Five Year Plan'.was targeted at 6.2% in
1993-94 prices and the actual growth has been 5.7% in the years 2002-03 10,2004-05. The
attempt has been to enhance the growth rate through increased and efficient investment in
public sector as well as creating a climate for larger flow of private investments'to the State.

(B)      FISCAL poticy FOR THE CURRENT.YEAR               -
(1)      Tax Policy  -
         VAT was introducedfrom 15'April 2005. Since this is a destination and multi-point
tax there is potential for growth of revenue if well administered. It would also, result in a single
market through out Indiaand put an end to tax war among the states to attract investment.
         The growth of tax revenue in the state has showed improvement. The growth rate
was 16 4%, 15 0% & 26 5% in 2002-03, 2003-04 & 2004-05 respectively. The annual average
growth of State's Own Tax Revenue during 1990-91to 1999-2000was only 11.1%,which has
increased to 19.8% during the period 2000-01 to 2004-05.

(2)      Expenditure Policy    -
         The emphasis is to reduce unproductive revenue expenditure and provide more
funds for development expenditure. Ths "aempt' has been to increase capital expenditure
which has been going down due to fiscal imbalance and linking outlay to output. While the
attempt has been to reduce,unproductive revenue expenditure, attention has been given to
manpower needs of critical sectors like Health, 'Education and law enforcement etc.
Government have created 74495 number of posts to be filled up on contractual I on regular
basis in essential sectors in different departments during 2000-01 to October 2005.
         New pension RulesB GPF Rules based on defined contribution has been introduced
to reduce the pension liability of the Government.                                 .  .

    \.   Attempt has also to be made .for higher allocation to social sectors.
                                            .

(3)      Government Borrowings, Lendings and Investments             -
         The 12'" Finance Commission have recommended as follows:            .
     i)      :the financing of the plan, apart from a small contribution'of plan grants from,the
             centre, depends entirely on borrowing by the State. A large .Plan effectively also
             means larger borrowing. It becomes therefore, necessary, that plan size of every
             state is linked to the sustainable level of the debt" 7 Para 2.32 of the report of the
             12h FC
     ii)     'to determine the right size of fiscal deficit and the debt in 'relation to GDP is
             important for prudent fiscal management:. - Para 2.42 of the report of the 12*
             FC.
     iii)    'Plan.grants should be given as genuine grants and states may be encouraged
             to borrow from the market directly. Such a change would require de-linking of
             grants from loans in plan assistance. This would facilitate determination of grants
             according to needs and loans according to'capacities. The plan size of each
             state needs to take into account the sustainable level of debt a.nd the capacity to
             borrow from the markel" (para 4.68 of the report, Page- 82).



                                                 2

   -iv)       Debt GSDP ratio should be brought down to 28% of GSDP (Para 4.45, page.-
              70-71 of the report). In case of Orissa it was 62..92% as on 31.3.2003 compared
              to all States' average of 34.21%. As on 31.3.2005 this GSDP ratio for Orissa is
              59.08%.
    v)        (para 4.54, page - 75). In.case of Orissa this ratio in 2002-03 was'35.85%
              The ratio of interest payment to revenue receipt should be brought down to 15%

              compared to all states' average of 24.57%), in 04-05 this ratio for'.Orissa has
              been reduced 28.1% in 2004-05.         .

    vi)       States should follow a Recruitment and Wage Policy, in a manner such that the
              total salary bill relative to revenue ,expenditure, net' of interest and pension'
              payment does not exceed 35%(Para 4.63, page - 80-81). At present, this ratio is        9


              as high as 55% for the year 2004-05. This has to be brought dowrto 35% by
              2009-10 as per the recommendation of.the 12vI Finance Commission (.in 2002-            .r
              03 this ratio was 65.5% for Orissa comparedto all states' average of 37.3%)
    vii)      "Getting the right size and the right composition of Government expenditure with
              a view to facilitating achievement of highest attainable growth rates, and meeting
             governments' social obligations including poverty reduction and provision of
              health and education should be considered integral to any plan for restructuring
              public finances. This requires increasing public expenditure in social and
              economic infrastructure for accelerating growth,while reducing the over-all fiscal
              imbalance." (para 4.6 of the report, Page -78-79)                              . .
                                                               -
          Another binding constraint prescribed by the 12b Finance Commission for debt relief
is that the fiscal deficit of the State must bk contained at least to the level of 2004-05. The
benefit of write-off of debt amounting to Rs'3'751.29 crore would be available only if the fiscal
deficit of the State is contained to the level of. 2004-05. If, in any year, the fiscal deficit'
exceeds this level, the benefit of 'write-off, even if eligible otherwise, would not be'given
(para.12.43Q) page.231). In other words, if the revenue deficit is reduced each year and
finally reduced to zero by 2008-09, but if the fiscal deficit in any of the year starting from
2005-06 to 2009-10 exceeds the fiscal deficit level of 2004-05, the debt write-off of
Rs.1751.29 crore would not be available to the State. While formulating the budget for 2006-
07 all these aspects have been kept in view.
          The 12th Finance Commission have also prescribed a debt relief scheme for the
States'which in case of Orissa is estimated at Rs. 3632.57 crore as indicatedbebw.

      i)  .Reduction in the repaymentof principal by way of        -     Rs.872.85 crore
           rescheduling the repaymentto fresh 20 years.


      ii)  Resetting the interest rate at 7.5% in respect of       -     RS.1008.43 crore
           the central loan contracted upto 31.3.2004 and
           outstanding as on 31.3.2005 (excluding NSSF
           Loan of Rs.4431.OO crore.


      tii) Debt write off subject to stipulationthat Orissa        -     Rs.1751.29 crore
           reduces the revenue Deficit to Zero by 2008-09
           (Annual average reduction Rs.493.33rore) and
           contains the Fiscal Deficit at least to the level of
           2004-05.



                                                 3

                                                                                      , .   .
                                                                         *  .
          However, all these debt write off are linked to State Governmentcomplying with the
various stipulations and conditionssuggested by the 12" Finance Commission. These include
reducing'revenue deficit to Zero by 2008-09, reducingfiscal deficit by 200849 to 3% of Gross
State Domestic Product (GSDP) and maintaining at the level of 2004-05; reducing the debt
burden as percentageof GSDP from the existing level of 59% in2004-05 to 28% in 2009-10,
containing salary expenditure to 35% of revenue expenditure, net.of interest payment and
pension. Thus, there is a built in restrictionon borrowing and there is necessitytokeep within
this limit to avail debt write off recommendedby the 12" Finance Commission; Hence there is
a critical need to reduce non-plan revenue expenditure and enhance revenue so that more
resources become available for development. . .                                           . .
                                                                       .     .
 (4)    .Other Liabilities     -                                        .     .
          Government has taken steps to reduce contingent liabilities under guarantees. The
results of these measures reveal that Govemment has maintained the ratios well within the
sustainable limit. The guarantee outstanding ,as a-percentage of Revenue Receipt less of
grant-in-aid in the second preceding year ,has been cedued from 127.33% in 2001-02 to
57.59% in 2004-05. The followingtable indicatesthe position.

 Year       Guarantee         Revenue Receipt less         Guarantee          GSDP at      Guarantee
            outstanding        Grant-in-Aid for the      outstanding as       Current        as ?4of
                               -2Mpreceding year          percentage of       Prices          GSDP
                                                        Revenue Receipt .
2001-02       5310.00         4169.01 (for the year          127.3%           38728           13.7%
                              1999-2000)
2002.03       5498.53     I 5473   47 (for the year         100.46%           42403          .13.0%
                              2000-01)
2003-04       5177.91    ,(   5807.35 (for the year  II                                 II
                                                       '     89.16%        1I 44684           11.6%
                              2001-02)
2004-05       3823.25     III 2002-03)
                              6638.60 (for the year  I .     57.59%      ' 1
                                                                           I  53830     I     7.1%


          Government has so far spent Rs.lI5.99 Cr. on one time settlement (OTS) schemes
 to discharge guarantee liabiities.
                                       Sector-wise OTS Position

    I                                                                         ,      (Rs. in crore)
          Year      I  PSU Sector         I   Co-operative  I   ULBSector     I    Total
                                                 sector
        2002-03                    27.24       .       17.85            0.00              45.09
        2003-04                    21.03               17.09   .        0,oo              38.12
        2004-05                    28.74                4.04            0.00              32.78


 (C)     STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FOR THE CURRENT YEAR                   -
 (1)     The policy of the Government is to broaden the tax base and hence revenue. Steps
         will be taken to further increase collection from VAT, Excise, M. V. Tax and other tax
         and non tax sources.
 (2)     Expendituremanagementwill link expenditure to output.
 (3)     Priority will be to complete incomplete projects by adequate funding and close
         monitoring.



                                                    4

     (D)'     POLICY EVALUATION       -
              This will be a continuing process basing on performance under revenue collection
     and expenditure pattern that emerges during the year

     (E)      RESTRUCTURING THE STATE FINANCES AS RECOMMENDED BY LATEST
              FINANCE COMMISSION         -

     (a)      Bringing down the ratio of interest payments to total revenue receipt
              The ratio of interest payments to revenue receipt was 32.6% in the year 1998-99.
     The ratio was 21.0%in 1999-00,33.1% in 2000-01,40.2% in 2001-02, 34.2% in 200243 and
     it was reduced to 30.3% in 2003-04. As per the actuals for the year 2004-05, the ratio is
     28.1% As per the recommendationof the 12* Finance Commission, the ratio of Interest to
     Total Revenue Receipt is to be contained to not more than 15% by 2009-10 (Para 4.54).
     However, as per the Orissa FRBM Act of 2005, the ratio of interest payments to revenue
     receipt is to be restricted to 18% to 25%. Accordingly, the interest payment liabilily has been
     projected to reach a level of 19.6% in the year 2009-10.

                         Year             I    Ratio of Interest Payment to Total Revenue     I




     (b)      Bringing down the ratio of total salary bill relative to revenue expenditure net of
           '  interest and pension
              12" Finance Commission have recommended that "States should follow a
     recruitment and wage policy, in a manner such that the total salary bill relative to
     revenue expenditure net of interest payments and pensions does not exceed 35 per
     cent." The ratio of Salary to Revenue Expenditure net of interest and pension was 70% in the
     year 1998-99, 59.5% in 1999-2000, 66.5% in 2000-01, 60% in 2001-02, 61% in 2002-03 and
     57% in 2003-04. It has been further reduced to 53.8% in the year 2004-05 as per the actuals.
     The salary expenditure has been estimated to reach a level of 40.4% of Revenue Expenditure       '

     net of interest and pension by the year 2009-10 and 60.2% of State's Own Reven.ue by the
     year 2009-10.

    I             Year                 Expenditure Net of Interest and . State's Own Revenue
                                          Ratio of Salary to Revenue            Ratio of Salary to

L                                                Pension (Oh)                         (%)
     1998-99Actual                                   70.0                             166.2
     1999-2000Actual                                 59.5                             160.6
     2000-01 Actual            -                     66.5                           . 132.5


                                                    5

I




          --
                   Year                   Ratio of Salary to Revenue        * Ratio of Salary to-
                                        Expenditure Net of lnterest and     State's Own Revenue
                                                  Pension (%)'                        (%)
   ! 2001-02Actual
     ,I
    '          Actual                                60.0                         ' 114.8   ,
       2002-03                                       61.O           . ..             97.0
    I                                      (12* FC estimated-'65.5)                    . .
       2003-04 Actual                                57.0                            88.8   .
       2004-05 Actual                                53.8                        '   75.9
       2005-06 Projectedin MTFP                      .50.8 . .                       80.8.
       2006-07 Projectedin MTFP                      49.3                            75.8    '   '
       2007-08 Projectedin MTFP                      46.9                            70.3   .
       2008-09 Projectedin MTFP                      43.3                            65.1
       2009-10 Projectedin MTFP                      40.4                            60.2

       (c)     Containing the ever increasing pension liability by following the initiative taken
               by the central government for pension reforms     -
               Government of Orissa have introduced the Defined Contribution Pension Scheme
       vide Notification No. 4445VF dated 17" September 2005, for new employees joining the
       government service on or after 01.01.2005, as a measure to control the ever increasing
       pension liability.

       (d)     rationalizing subsidies and reducing their overall volume   -
               Subsidy for the year 2003-04 was Rs. 230.89 crore and Rs. 93.35 crore in the year
       2004-05 It has been estimated to gradua!!y_reduce to a level of Rs. 59.96 crore by the year
       2009-10

       (e)     bringing down the debt-GSDP ratio     -
               The total outstanding'debt as on 31.3.2005 was Rs. 34051.18 crore. It represents
       59.1% of GSDP. The Debt Stock was 14751.15'crore in the year 1998-99 (end year), Rs.
        18100.80crore in 1999-2000,Rs. 21001.90 crore in 2000-01, Rs. 24033.60 crore in 2001-02,
       Rs. 27801.19 crore in 2002-03 and Rs. 31633.96 crore in 2003-04 (end year). The YoY
       growt6 rate of Debt Stock was 19.1% in the year d998-99 over the previous year,. Similarly,
       the growth rate.went upto 22.7% in 2999-00 and it has been restricted to 7.6% by the year
       2004-05. The Twelfth Finance Commission have recommended that "the long term goal for
       the centre and state for the debt-GDP should be 28 per cent each." (Para 4.79). .The
       Orissa FRBM Act of 2005 however stipulates that the Debt to Revenue Receipt ratio should
       be brought down to 300% by the year ending 31.3.2008. This ratio of debt to Tota1,Revenue
       receipt was 323.9% in the year 1998-99 and this has been substantially reduced to 287.3% in
       the year 2004-05. The ratio of debt stock to Revenue Receipt, as projected in the MTFP, has
       been estimated to be reduced to about 267% by the year 2009-.10, as compared to the target
       of 300% stipulated in the FRBMAct.
     ,- __.-
                       Year              I Ratio of Debt to GSDP (Oh)  I Ratio of Debt to Revenue 1
     '1 1998-99                                                                Receipt (%)
               Actual                                 41 46                        323.9
        1999-2000Actual                               46 86                        307 6
     I 2000-01 Actual                                 54 23                        304.3
       2001-02Actual                                  56 68                        341.o
       2002-03Actual                                  62 22                        329 4
       2003-04 Actual                                 58.71                        335.1
       2004-05Actual                                  59 08                        287.3
                                                                . .

r---            Year        I                              I
                              'Ratio of Debt to GSDP (%)      Ratio of Debt toRevenue   1
I                                                                . Receipt (%)
  2005-06 Projectedin MTFP                 58.6 '                      280.9
                                (56.39 in R.E. for 2005-06). (253.2%inR.E. $or2005-06) .
  2006-07 Projectedin MTFP                57.9                         284.5       .
I!                             (54.44% in B.E..for 2006-07)  (245.5%in B.E. for 2006-07)
  2007-08 Projectedin MTFP                57.2                         .276.8 .'
  2008-09 Projectedin MTFP                56.2                    : 272.1
  2009-10 Projectedin MTFP                55.3     '                   267.0     . '



                                        ttHI




                                          7

                                               FORM II  -
                                MEDIUM TERM FISCAL 'PLAN
                                            { See rule 4 (2) }


,-        Description                 Last       Last Year      Current Year   Targetsfor Nexttwo
,                                  available     Revised       Target Budget          years .
ii
I                                   Actual       Estimates      ''Estimates
i                                                                     Y         Y + t        Y + 2  ,
                                    2004-05      2005-06           2006-07     2007-08     2008-09
  RevenueDeficit as                                                    .   .                . .
  percentageof GSDP (YO)             -0.91     .   -0.81            -0.68   '   - 0.2         .+0.1
  Fiscal Deficit as percentage
  of GSDP (%)                        - 2.37        - 2.23           - 2.40    ' -2.7'         - 2.8


         !DI XOCK   as           I            I              I               I           I          I

         3ge of GSDP (%)             59.08          56.39     .     54.44       57.16        56.23


     6. Assumptions underlying the Fiscal Indicators       -       -

                                                 .;-r--..
     Assumption on Gross State Domestic Product:
              There is a huge variation in the real growth rate of GSDP from 1999-2000to 2004-05
     (Advance Estimates) in the range of -0.70% to 14.40%. Similarly, the nominal growth rate of
     GSDP varies from 0.30% to as high as 21.30%. The average growth rate of GSDP in
     constant prices from 1999-2000 to 2004-05 (AE) is 4.59% and the annual average growth
     rate of GSDP at Current Prices is 8.57% during the same period. This can be seen from the
     Table below.




               It is important to mention here that Twelfth Finance Commission'have assumed a
     nominal growth rate of 11% in GSDP for Orissa (page 383 of the Report). 11may also be           ,


     noted that the growth rate of GSDP during the Tenth Five Year Plan was targeted at 6.2% in
     1993-94 prices and the actual growth has been 5.7% in the years 2002-03 to 2004-05.
     Accordingly a moderate Nominal growth rate of 10% per annum in GSDP has been assumed
     during the period of projection in the MTFP.

     1. Revenue receipts
               (a) Tax Revenue - The collection of State's Own Tax Revenue was Rs. 4176.70
                    crore in the year 2004-05. For. the year 2005-06, Finance Commission have
                    assessed the collection of State's Own Tax Revenue at Rs. 4358.20 crore. The
                    Commission estimated State's Own Tax Revenue for the year 2006-07 at Rs.
                    4933.48 crore as Twelfth Finance Commission have assumed a Nominal growth
                    rate of 11.00% in GSDP at Current Prices and a buoyancy of 1.20 in State's Own
                    Tax Revenue, thus the total growth rate being 13.20% (page 383 of the Report).
                                                   d     f
                                                      a .

                                                                                                                  . .
                   Accordingly, the projection made by the Twelfh Finance Commission for the year
                   2006-07 has been taken as the State's Own Tax Revenue Receipt for that year              .
                   in, the MTFP. In view of likely phasing out of CST and uncertainty in the trend
                   growth under VAT regime, this level of krojection has been assumed by the State
                   Government.

               (b) Non Tax Revenue      -The collection of State's Own-Non tax revenue for the year
                   2003-04 was Rs. 1094.55 crore and for the year 2004-05 was Rs. 1345.52 crore.
                   This receipt includes unusual one-time items such as advance dividend received                     b
                  from OP,GCto the tune of Rs. 30.00 crore for 2005-06 and interest receipt of Rs:
                   187.48 crore from GRIDCO on account .of overdue power sector bonds I loans
                   passed on to GRIDCO. The Twelfth Finance Commission has assessed State's              '            ?
                   Own Non Tax'Revenue for the year at Rs. 1356.67 crore. Thus after taking out
                   the impact of these one-time receipts, total State's Non Tax revenue is projected
                   at Rs. 1185.75 Crore Gross in the MTFP for the year 2006-07 and accordingly               .
                   the Non tax revenue has been projected'by taking a growth rate of 5% per
                  annum for the period of projection.

               (c) Devolution to States  -
                        Share Taxes - The actual release of share tax during the year 2004-05 was
                        Rs. 3977.56 crore. Thus taking a modest growth rate of 12.5VO over the
                        actual receipt in the year 2004-05, as .prescribed by the Planning
                        Commission, the share tax fx4he year 2006-07 works out to Rs. 5034.10
                        crore as against finance 'cohnission estimation of Rs. 5403.19 crore.
                        However, there has been sizable decline in the release of share tax during
                        the Eleventh Finance Commission award period to the tune of Rs. 3663.13
                        crore compared to the recommendation made by the Eleventh Finance
                        Commission, as can be seen from the table given below.

                                                                                                   ShortfaIt
I                                                                   Share in                       inShare
I                   i    .                            ' Sharein     Central             Central
                                                                                        Inthe     in Central
       !:      ..        own      Own      Improvement   Central    Taxes      Share                Taxes
  Year  j    Items     assessed
                        Revenue  Revenue.    in Own       Taxes                          Tax
                                                        recomm.    estimated    Tax                from the
          \!            by EFC   realised    Revenue    ended by     in the   releasedcTl::d       Estimate
                                                                    Central .          estimate      in the
       !            I                              '  . theEFC      Budget              of EFC
                                                                                                    Budget
                                                                                                    Centra'


                                                                    2707.80   2603.97   -129 30     -103 83


                                                                    3003.39 , 264a.72   .m02        -354 37
                                                                                                                      c

                                                                    3063.31   2805 58   -910 33   .-257  73


                                                                    3225.14   3327.68  -1006 53      102 54


                                                                    3978.02    3977.56 -1078 64       -046


                                                                    15977.66  15363.51  4653.13     *614.15




                                                     9

  Thus, keeping in view such shortfall in the release of central taxes to the
  States we have assumed Rs. 5089.45 crore of share tax for'the year 2006-
  07 in the MTFP and then a Nominal growth rate of 11% assumed over the
  same in the period of projection.
b Grants from Central Government (Non Plan)        - The major items covered
  under Non Plan Grant are the grants recommended by the Twelfth Finance
  Commission. The details of Grants (Non Plan and Plan) covered under
  Finance Commission are given below.




  Apart from these Non Plan grants under Twelfth.Finance Commission, no
  other non plan grants have been assumed during the period of projection in
  the MTFP.

  Grants from Central Government (State Plan) - The State PIan'Grants from
  the Centre for the year 2005-06 a i d -2006-07 have been taken as per the
  decisions taken in the official level discussions for estimating the resources
  for the Annual Plan,2006-07 for Orissa. The loan and grant ,component have
  been taken separately and the loan component of the respective State Plan
  Schemes have been assumed to be raised from the Open Market Borrowing
  in each of the years, as recommended bythe Twelfth Finance Commission.'        .
  For the years 2007-08 to 2009-10, a moderate 10% growth in the said grants.
  from the centre have been ,assumed as was prescribed in'the guidelines for
  estimating there sources for the Annual Plan 2006-07. However, in case of
  ACA for externally aided projects, the same,level has been assumed for the
  subsequent years of projection. Apart from the grants from the Centre, Rs:
  1000 crore of SAL from Warfd Bank has been assumed for each of the years
  beginning 2005-06 to 2009-10. However, out of these World Bank SAL,
  Rs. 600 crore in.2005-06 and Rs. 400 crore would be utilised towards
  debt swap each year during 2006-07 to 2009-10 to pre-pay high-cost
  loans from different sources. As'it has been decided that such SAL
  Ioankredit would be passed on to the States on back-to-back basis, the
  entire amount has been assumed as 100% loanin each of the years and not
  as 70% loan and 30%grant as was being done earlier;
  Grants from Central Government (CP B Csp)       - C.P. and C.S.P. grants have
  been assumed by taking a 10% growth Over the budget estimates for the


                                I O

                 year 2005-06 for the subsequent years. However, the expenditure on                    r
                  account of the C.P. and C.S.P. grant have also been assumed at the same           ,
                  level, thereby making the net effect on the revenue account nil.




    Loan Receipts  -Source            I 2005-06  1  2006-07   I'2007-08 1   200849  1 2009.10
    Government of India                                               -
                                        r -


   - -NSSF
    Non Plan                               15.25    _F .0.00         0.00      0.00       0.00
    Srnall.Savings                        615.30       615.30      615.30     615.30    615.30
    CP LCSP Loans                           13.20        0.00        0.00      0.00    '  0.00
    Loans on Account of EAP           1   308.00       391.38      430.52     430.52    430.52   .
    World Bank                        I  1000.00     1000.00      1ooo.00    1M)o.oo   1ooo.o(1
    Of which for Debt Swap            j   400.00       400.00       400.00    400.00    400.00
    Total Loans from Go1              I  1951.75     2006.68      2045.82    2045.82   2045.82




3. Total Expenditure Policy Stance
                         -
        (a) Revenue Account         -
                  (i)      Salary 8 Pension - The State Government have taken several
                           measures to contain the ever increasing salary and pension
                           liabilities. Recruitment in all sectors, excluding only essential sectors
                           like police, doctors, nurses etc. has been banned and any
                           recruitment, if required, are being done only on contractual basis in
                           certain categories. Till date the State Government have abolished
                           38970 number of vacant base level posts (as on 1.1.2006). At the
                          'same time the Government in Finance Department have also'
                           concurred 74495 number of posts to be filled up on contractual I


                                                  11

                 regular basis /creation of new posts and filling up of the same in
              .  .essential sectors in different departments during'2001-02 to October
               ' 2005. .Steps have also been !ken        to.discontinue'. the benefit of
                 encashment of surrender leave salary to the employees.
                           Similarly, in case of pension Government have introduced
                .the Defined Contribution Pension Scheme for all the employees
                 joining on or after 01.01.2005 vide Finance Department Notification
                                                                                  . .
                  No:.44451/F dated 17'" September 2005.     , .
      (ii)       Subsidies - Subsidies have been substantially, reduced over the
                 years and in the projection for the future years, it has been assumed
                 that general subsidy would be reduced at a rate of 10% per annum
                 beginning 2005-06. However, as per the recommendation of the 12h
                  Finance Commission Food Subsidy amounting to Rs. 36.71 crore
                 peiannum has been provided for in the MTFP.
      (iii) '     Maintenance Expenditure - The Twelfth'Finance Commission have
                 prescribed the minimum level of expenditure for maintenance of
                  roads' and bridges and ,buildings. The Commission have

            .   'recommended that grants on account of maintenance expenditure
                 would be released only if the State 'provides for the minimum
                 prescribed level of expenditure in maintenance heads like roads i
                  bridges and buildings etc and steps have been taken to 'maintain
                  such.levels of expenditure for these sectors as well while projecting
                  the expenditure inMTFP.
                  Calamity Relief - The Twelfth Fina'nce Commission have also
                 's'uggested that the sckrne of CRF be continued in its present form
                  with contributions from Centre and the States in the ratio of 7525.
                  Accordingly provisions have been made towards 'State's share of
                  contribution to CRF in the MTFP tn accordance with the
                  recommendations of the 12'h Finance Commission,
                  Others - Also in line with the recommendations of the Twelfth
                  Finance Commission, the State Government haveset up the Sinking
                  Fund for amortisation of huge Marke! Borrowings and other
                         '
                  borrowings. A Guarantee redemption Fund has' also been           '
                  established to me'et the contingent liability arising out of the total
                  outstanding guarantees. The projection in the MTFP also takes into
                  account the provision for investment in the sinking fundsat a rate of.
                  2% of the total outstanding debt at the end of each year.
(b) Capital Account     -                                                       . .

      ( i )       Loans 8 Advances - Loans and advances given by the State               ,
                  Government to government employees, cooperatives and, likes was
                  Rs. 1572.01 crore in 2003-04 which included Rs. 1102.87 crore of
                  loans advanced to GRIDCO towards securitisation of NTPC dues
                  and Rs. 204.81 crore to GRIDCO for upgrading transmission and
                  distribution systems under state plan from World Bank, Similarly, in
                  the year 2004-05, the total loans advanced by the'State Government
                  was rs. 205.09 crore but this has been assumed to be gradually
                  reduced over the years during the period of projection in the ,MTFP.
      (ii)        Capital Outlay - The total capital outlay in the year 2003-04 was Rs.
                  852.95 crore which has been increased to Rs. 1055.55 crore in the
                  year 2004-05. This constitutes 1.6% of GSDP in the year 2003-04


                                       . 12

    - -                   and 1.8% of GSDP in 2004-05. Twelfth Finance Commission have
                          also recommended that the capital expenditure .n,eeds to be
                                                          '


                          the,capital outlay as YOof GSDP'has been p;ojected
                          increased to 3% of GShP by the year ending 2009-10..Accordingly
                                                                               to reach 2.2%
                          in 2005-06, 2.6% in 2006-07,2.6% in 2007-08;2.9%    in 2008-09 and
                          2.94% in 2009-10. However, the Capital expenditure as a whole
                          (Capital Outlay + ,Loans & Advances) has been projected to reach
                         'from 2.4% in 2005-06 to 2.7% in 2006-07 and'2007-08, 3.0% in
                          2008-09 and 2009.10.

C. Assessment of sustainability relating to     -    .

(i) Revenue Deficit Revenue deficit for the year 2001-02was Rs. 2833.74 crore, which was
                     -
reduced to (-) Rs. 1575.91 crore in 2002-03, (-) Rs. 1420.92 in the year 2003-04 and the
revenue deficit for the year 2004-05 has been substantially reduced to (-) .Rs. 522.30 crore.
The Twelfth Finance Commission have recommended that the revenue deficit should be
eliminated by the year ending 2008-09. Accordingly, in the MTFP, the revenue deficit has
been projected to be of the order of Rs. 671.10 crore in 2005-06, Rs. 498.05 crore in 2006-
07, Rs, 158.58 crore in 2007-08 and projection of revenue surplus of Rs. 52.79 crore has
been made in the year 2008-09. The State Government have taken various measures for
enhancement of collection of State's own revenue and to contain non-productive revenue
expenditure in order to achieve the targeted reduction in revenue deficit.
                                                                   -
                                                              .r.
(ii) Use of Capital Receipts foil$enerating productive assets
         Ideally the capital receipts includifg-the borrowings should be utilised to generate
assets to ensure income for the State Government. However, the perpetual deficit in the
tevenue account of the State had compelled the State Government to divert the funds from
capital accounts to meet the revenue deficit in the past years. In the early eighties, this
diversion was negligible or there was no such diversion of capital receipts to meet the
revenue deficit. However, this diversion reached an alarming level of more than 68% in the
                                              le given below:
                                                                                (Rs. in Crore)
   !                                                                                    1
   i    .'                  I                I
                                              ' Revenue
   j                                                           Total loan     Yoof the IoIan,

       Year       revenue
                  .           Total revenue                '
                                                       (+)  incurred (Gross    diverted I!O
                   receipt     expenditure     '                                meet thc!
   I                                             ?e?nue     Loans + Net GPFl
   I   '                                        aencitpj  I




      1997-98     4632.03        5535.17         -903.14         2189.37        -41.2556
      1998.99   ' 4554.40        6816.90        -2262.50         2924.96        -77.35%
      1999-00     5884.64        8458.83        -2574.19         3734.74 '      -68.93%
      200041      6902.02        8833.99        -1931.97         3644.59        -53.01%
      2001-02     7047.99        9881.73        -2833.74         3952.56        -71.69%



                                               13

  .*-- --. --
           -
                     Tota'                                                          46 of the loan
                                Total revenue     surplus(t) incurred loan
                                                   Revenue       'Total (Gross       djverted to
  E     Year        revenue
                    receipt      expenditure      .I revenue                          meet the
  I                                                 deficit(.) loans,+ Net GPF)   'revenue deficit

  i--
  I
  !   2002-03     .0438.77         10014.68         -1575.91        5127.63            -30.73%
      2003-04       9440.24        10861.16.       -1420.92         5247.04            -27.08%
      2004-05       11850.19       12372.49         -522.30        '3464.63            -15.0m

          This diversion also reached still higher level of 71.69% in the year 2001-02. But there
has been sincere efforts to reduce the revenue deficit of the State:Govemment, which has
been re'duced from as high as (-) Rs. 2574.19 crore in 199940 to (-) Rs. 522.30 crore in the
year 2004-05. Accordingly,the diversion from capital receipts has also reduced from 71.69%
in 2001-02 to mere 15.08% in the year 2004-05.
          The reduction in the level of diversion of funds from capital account to meet the
revenue deficit createsa fiscal space for the State Government to invest in the developmental
activities of the State Government. As per.the stipulation made in the O k a FRBM Act of
2005 and also as per the recommendation of the 12" Finance Commission, the revenue
deficit is to be eliminatedby 2008-09, and thus this diversion of funds from capital receipts to
meet the revenuedeficit would cease.

BUDGET ESTIMATE2006-07                         -
                           .r .                                  L


          The projection made in the Meqium Term Fiscai Plan (MTFP) are indicative only
          basing on which the Budget esti6aIes are to be prepared on year to year basis. The
          MTFP envisages rolling talgets, which is dynamic in nature and is to be updated
          periodically keeping in vie.w the changing circumstances and the latest available
          actuals. One of the stipulations of the 12" FC for enabling the State Government to
          claim debt write off is that the fiscal deficit should be contained to the level of 2004-05
          and this calls for reduction in borrowing in 2005-06 and 2006-07 onwards. Since, the
          state pan outlay for 2006-07 has been approved at.Rs. 3500 crore, with.16,33O/0 hike
          over 2005-06,there is need for higher collection from State's Own.Tax and Non Tax
          Revenue in order to reduce the requirement of borrowing to finance the State Plan
          outlay of Rs. 3500 crore.
          Accordingly the stale's own tax for 2006-07 has been estimated at Rs. 5083.48 crore
          against Rs. 4933.48 ciore as projected in the MTFP. Similarly the estimate of State's
          Own Non Tax revenue for 2006-07 has been projected at Rs. 1369.51 crore in place
          of Rs.,1185.75crore assumed in the MTFP.                                           . .
          Further taking into account the latest trends in collection of central'taxes, the share in
          central taxes for 2006-07 has been assumed at' Rs. 5318.01,,crore in place of Rs.
          5089.45 crore projected in the MTFP.
          On the same ground,'the estimate of recovery of loans and advances has been kept
          at Rs. 276.40 crore for the year 2006-07 in place of Rs. 121:26 crore as projected in
          the MTFP.
          Higher assumption of State's Own Tax and Non Tax Revenue, recovery of loans and
          advances and share taxes in the Budget Estimate for the year.2006-07 has resulted
          in reductionin estimate of borrowings for the said,year.accordingly.             .




                                                    14

                                              FROM -'I11
                                  DISCLOSURE STAT.EMENT
                                           { SeeRule-6)

                            SIX TIER CODING PATTERN IN STATE BUDGET

         In the existing Budget Coding System, seven digit code below the'Minor Head is being
followed. Moreover under the existing system there are more than onesub head I detailed heads in
between Minor Head and Object Head. This resulted in:-

     1. Indeterminate level for sub-head, detailed head and object head:
    2    The present coding system needed some fine tuning to be in conformity with Rule 26 of
         Govt. Accounting Rules 1990and the General direction contained in 'List of Major and Minor
         Head of Account' published by the Controller General of Accounts, God.of India.

         After introduction of V.L.C. system of accounts in the office of the A.G., Orissa, it was:felt
necessary to review and restructure the coding pattern of the existing budget heads below the Minor
Head of Account by the State Government. For adoption of six tier coding a number of meetings of
officers of Finance Department and Officers of A.G., Orissa were held. It was finally decided to
revise the existing budget heads to six tier numeric coding patter and to follow the revised
classificationfrom 2006-07 i.e. in the Annual Bdget to be preparedfor that year.
                                                                  -                  .    ,

                               .7--
         The budget heads below the Minor Heads have now been'restructured to be fitted into the
six tier coding pattern to be compatible with the accounting system followed by the Accountant
General.

         The six tier coding as prescribed is as follows -Existinq                     Revised
           Major Head                           1s' Tier           4 digits            4 digits
           Sub Major Head                      2ndTier              2 digits    .       2 digits
           Minor Head                           3! Tier             3 digits            3 digits
           Sub Head                             4th Tier           7 digits             4 digits
           Detailed Head                        5lh Tier            7 digits         .  5 digits'
           Object Head   ,                      6th Tier            7 digits            3 digits

         In order to differentiate the accounting levels below Minor Heads lhe 4 digit code has been
assigned to sub-heads where as 5 digit code has been assigned to detailed heads and 3 digit code
to object heads. In order to analyse the budget data the detailed heads are taken as units for objec!s
01 expenditure. To identify the expenditures in respect of the objects of the same unique group, code
number has been assigned to each group or object. Therefore, the 5" level Le. the detailed head         ,

which has been assigned with 5 digit code number includes the 1s' 2 digit for group code and the rest
3 digit for the specific expenditure.

         The modification in coding pattern as explained above to make it compatible with A.G.'s
accounts and for easy retrieval of information will in no way affect the analysis of budget and
computation of prescribed fiscal indicators.                                   .  .



                                                     15

                                           FORM V   -
                   STATEMENT OF{ DEFERREDLIABILITIES
                                           See Rule 8 } .

   -    While presenting the Annual Budget for the current year, the State Government shall
furnish statement showing the deferred liabilities on the following accounts :
                                                                         . .
        i)      State's matching share
                0   State's matching share under Centrally Sponsored Plan schemes not
                    provided for in the previous years and the deficit of,such'State share in the
             .      current financial year...  ,     .
                0   Deficit in the State share under different Centrally Sponsored Plan schemes    '

                .   at the end of 2005-06 has been estimated at around Rs.235.00 crore under
                    State Planon the basis of likely receipts estimated by the Departments;'
                    During 2006:07, the State share' provided under State Plan,'is Rs.501.83
                    crore excluding Rs.167.42 crore provided,under Non-Planfor Sarba Sikhya
                    Abhiyan Sci,eme in the budget of S c M & Mass Educatim Department.
                    As per the information supplied by various Departments.there would be
                    additional requirement of around Rs.330.00' crore which .is based on
                    assumption of higher allocation of Central assistance during 2006-07. With
                    improvement'in resourcSs'and reduction in unproductiveexpenditure it may
                    be possible.toprovideadditional fund towards State share depending on the
                    flow of Central assistanceand progress of utilization.      .

        ii)     Bills presented in the treasury but not en-cashed :-

                        As on 31.03.2005bills presented in the Treasury but not encashed is Nil,

        iii)    Central Assistance received but not utilized at the end of a particular
                financial year :-

                        As per the information supplied by various Administrative Departments,
              out of the Central Assistance received upto'31.03.2005, the U.C. pending as on
              1.4.2005 was Rs.2150.66 crore and as on 1.1.2006 U..C. pending in respect of
              Central Assistance received upto 31.03.2005 is,Rs.689.89 crore. The Central           .
              Assistance received during 2005-06 is being utilized along with unuticzed Central
              Assistance as on 1.4.2005.

        iv)     Un-disbursed amount lying in the Civil Deposits:
                        Major part of balances lying in Civil Deposit relate to Central and
              Centrally Sponsored Plan Scheme Funds released by Government of India
              towards the fag end of the financial year. In order to avoid lapse of Budgeted
              provision under these Schemes, the State Government resort to Civil Deposit. In
              case of urgent necessity provisions under Non Plan                State Plan were also
              transferred to Civil Deposit. By this expenditure under-the scheme could be taken
                                    I




                                                  16


                                                                           .....
                                                                            I

      up in the next financial year without makingfresh Budget provision. The balances
      lying in Civil Depositare part of the deferredliability of the StateGovernment.

         The transfer of Budgeted funds to CivilDeposit is declining from the year,2002-
03 as may be seen from the Table below :        ,-
                                                                                  Croie )
                                                                                                 t




                                                                                                 i




                                                                                     .   ,


                                                                                              . .
        Since.transfer of Budgeted funds to Civil Deposit distorts the total expenditure
reflectedin the accounts, Finance Department have issued several instructionsin 2004:
05 and 2005-06 prohibiting such transfer. .Releases.from. Civil Deposit.are. being
regulated by instructions issued from Finape Departmentbomtime to time based on
actual requirement at a particularpoint of time and actual preparedness for spending the
money. During 2005-06 Finance Departmzt-have accorded concurrence for release of
Rs.79.59 crore from Civil Deposit.




                                         17

                                                                                                                 Annex 6


                                        Debt Sustainabilitv Note'

This Note on Debt Sustainability examines the impact on debt and debt servicing ratios of the ongoing
reform program of the Government of Orissa, and of Bank financing of this program through a
programmatic series of Development Policy Loans.                     The Note also analyzes the sensitivity of the
outcomes to exogenous shocks, such as growth,fiscal and exchange rate shocks. TheNote concludes that
if Orissa follows the fiscal reform path envisioned in its Medium-term Fiscal Plan (2005-10) and
institutionalized through the Orissa Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act 2005, it will no
longer be a debt stressed state by 2009/10; and this projection is unlikely to be derailed even if there is a
significant exchange rate shock.

Orissa has been classified by the Ministry o f Finance, Government o f India, as a `debt stressed' state, on
the basis of two indicators as recommended by the Twelfth Finance Commission(TFC)2:
          Debt-Revenue ratio higher than 300% -- in Orissa it was 335% in2003104
          Interest-Revenue ratio greater than or equal to 20%           -- in Orissa it was 30% in 2003/04.

This Note considers and uses the Interest-Revenue ratio as the single most important indicator o f the
degree of debt stress. This i s because (i)          an important developmental cost o f unsustainable debt i s the
pre-empting o f revenue resources for debt servicing, and (ii)                given initial conditions o f high inherited
debt, Orissa has relatively more room to reduce the interest-revenue ratio, including through debt-swaps
and pre-payment o f expensive debt.

The Government o f Orissa (GOO) has implemented a number of fiscal correction measures which have
brought about considerable improvement inthe state's finances during2001-05. Not only has the primary
(non-interest) fiscal balance been converted from a deficit o f 6.5% in 1999-00 into a surplus o f over 2%
of GSDP in 2004-05 and in 2005-06, but Go0 has also made maximum use o f available debt
restructuring and swapping possibilities with the Government o f India. Inaddition, Go0 has used part o f
the proceeds o f the first DevelopmentPolicy Loan (OSEDL-I) from the World Bank to pre-pay expensive
debt to domestic financial institutions, and intends to use future such operations in a similar manner. The
ratio o f outstanding debt to revenue, which was above 330% during 2001-04, has fallen below 300% in
2004-05. The interest to revenue ratio has declined from 40.2% in 2001-02 to an estimated 25.2% in
2005-06.

With average real economic growth expected to be around 6% and average real interest rate on
 outstanding debt at around 5%, the state could run a small primary deficit and still stabilize its debt ratio.
However, given the highlevel o f inherited debt, Goo's target i s to first reduce the debt and debt servicing
ratios significantly before stabilizing them, by achieving and maintaining a significant primary surplus
 over the medium term.




  This note has been prepared by Pooja Churamani, SASPR, under the overall guidance of V.J. Ravishankar and Marina Wes.
   The TFC also recommended a tolerable level o f debt-GSDP o f about 35% for most states in India. Given the legacy o f high
 past debt, it would take more than a decade for Orissa to achieve this ratio, unless the next Finance Commission recommends
 further debt write-off for the goodperformers and/or ifgrowth exceeds 6% as envisaged inthis analysis



                                                                1

                                                                                                         Annex 6
                       Figure I:Indicators of Public Debt under Reform Scenario, 2003-2020
                                                                        (In percent)




                                335
                                  \-  \-     ---.                                           I 3 0 0


                         40 4

                         30 t   30

                                                                                               100
                                                                                        17
                         2o
                         10




                          II -     Debt-GSDP     -Interest-Revenue      --Debt-Revenue




T h e Medium-Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) for the period 2005-10, tabled in the Orissa Legislature along
with the 2006-07 annual budget on February 14,2006, projects a primary fiscal surplus of around 2% of
GSDP on average during 2005-10. Outstandingdebt is projected to decline to below 275% and interest
b e l o w 20% of total revenue by 2009-10.




  The analysis presented in this Note draws on the results o f the following alternative scenarios o
  projected finances o f the Government o f Orissa. Assumptions that are common to all the scenano
  mclude: (i)   inflation at 5% throughout the period 2005-2020, and (ii)interest rate in the domesti
  market rising gradually from 8% in2007-08 to stabilize at 10%inthe long run:
  (1) Reform Scenario with DPL Financing: Int h s scenario, G o 0 sustains a pnmary fiscal surplus o
        2% o f GSDP during 2005-10 on average, then at 1% during 2010-15 and at 0.6% dunng 2015-
        Real GSDP growth is assumed at 5% till 2009110 and 6% thereafter. In addition to
        OSEDL in 2004-05 and the second m 2006107, a third and fourth operation are ass
        2007108 and 2008109 respectively, amounting to a cumulative total o f $625 million
        financing during 2004-09;
  (2) G o 0 Reform Scenario without D P L Financing: With the same projected primary balance an
        GSDP growth as inthe previous scenario, D P L financing is excluded and replaced with financin
        at marketterms o f interest, with 3 years grace and 7 years maturity.
  (3) N o Reform Scenario: This is a counterfactual scenario, generated for the purpose o f assessing
        impact o f reforms, wherein GSDP growth is maintained at a historical 8-year average o f 3.
        (1994/95-200112) and the prmary deficit    is maintained at 0.9% throughout the projection penod;
  (4) Status Quo Scenario: This reflects what would happen if G o 0 achieves n o further fisca
        correction, but maintains a pnmary fiscal surplus o f 0.7% o f GSDP during 2004-20




                                                             2

                                                                                                                      Annex 6
I.Fiscal impact of Go0s Reform Program
The No Reform Scenario shows that if Onssa had not introduced fiscal reforms in 2001102, then debt
would have been unsustainable, touching almost 80% o f GSDP in 2019-20 and interest rising to above
30% of revenue by 2016. That the major part o f macro-fiscal correction has already been undertaken i s
borne out by the fact that the Status Quo Scenario shows a marked improvement over the No Reform
Scenario, with debt and interest ratios declining steadily throughout 2010-20. However, the status quo i s
not adequate for Orrssa to achieve the milestone o freducinginterest to below 20% o f revenue by 2009/10
(Figure 2a & 2b) and the analysis suggeststhat a higherprimary surplus should be maintained, in order to
bringdebt indicators to comfortable levels by 2009/10.

                                              Fiscal Impact of Reforms

        Figure 2 a                                                              Figure 2 b
                                                                                                                                  I


                           Debt-teGDPratio(%)                               Interest -to-Revenue Ratio(%)            -.32,6   -
                                                                                                                           ~

                                                                30
                                                                   j -,;
                                                                   -\
                                                                25 -
                                                                   -
                _ / e -                                         20

                                                          42.2  15 -
                                                                lo  , ,,          ;;f;;:;;a:;              ,, ,,, , ,,,,    ,,,I

   30.                                                     36.0               A1.No Reform
   20               Quo                                          5

   10.. -A2.Status                                                            A2. Status Quo
                                                                 0
    0   "  " " "  "  "  " " '
                                                                   2003 2005 2007                2009 2011 2013 2015  2017    2019


2. Impact of DPLFinancing

The impact o f DPL financing has been estimated on the basis o f comparing the outcome of GOO'Sreform
scenario with and without such financing. This comparison shows that development policy lending, as a
result of its concessional interest rate, long maturity and significant grace period, results in a substantial
improvement in debt indicators over the medium to longer run. In the absence of DPL financing, the
ratio of interest to revenue would be almost 7 percentage points higher in 2019/2020 - at 24.7%
compared to 17% if there was DPL financing available. Without DPL financing, it would not be possible
for Orissa to achieve the target o f reducing interest to below 20% o f revenue, and thus emerge out o f its
debt-stressed condition, even by 2019/20. Further, in the absence o f DPL financing and associated pre-
payment o f high cost old debt, about Rs. 38 billion (1.4% o f GSDP) in 2019/20 would be used towards
debt servicing instead o f for productive investments and developmental initiatives. Thus, D P L financing
enables Orissa to emerge out o f debt stress much faster than otherwise (Figure 3).




                                                          3

                                                                                                               Annex 6
                                                    Figure 3

                              Without DPL financing: Interest-Revenue (I%)


                     351




                                    Go0 Reform Scenario

                                    Go0 Reform scenario w/o DPL




3. SensitivityAnalysis

The government's reform scenario was subjected to various sensitivity tests to assess the vulnerability to
exogenous shocks. A one standard deviation shock to GSDP in 2007-08, i.e., if GSDP growth falls to                      -
1.4% in that year, results in a one or two year delay in achieving the target o f interest less than 20% o f
revenue (Figures 4a & 4b).

        Figure 4a                                                         Figure 4b

 70                                                           35
                              Debt-to-GDP ratio (%)
 60
                                                                                        Interest-to-RevenueRatio(YO)
 50

 40                                                           20
                                                       36.0
                                                               loi_,
 30                                                            15

 20                                                                    -GOO     Reform Scenario
                -Go0        Reform Scenario                                 B1. Growth Shock
 10             __--   Bl.Growth Shock                                      B2. Fiscal shock
                       B2. Fiscal shock                                            ,   ,   ,  ,   ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , ,
  0                                                        I   50

    2003  2005 2007  2009   2011   2013 2015   2017    2019       2003  2005  2007     2009   2011   2013  2015  2017 2019




                                                           4

                                                                                                  Annex 6
Besides the growth shock, other shocks such as shocks to the primary balance (fiscal shock), a
combination o f fiscal and growth shock, a one time increase in debt creating flows (increase in contingent
liabilities) and a depreciation shock have also been analyzed. In all o f these cases, the three debt
indicators stabilize at a higher level compared to the reform scenario and all indicators stabilize after the
shocks subside.

4. Depreciation and its effect on Debt

The impact o f currency risk assumes importance given that DPL financing will be passed by the center to
states on back-to-back terms, following the recommendations made by the Twelfth Finance Commission
in 2005. The sensitivity analysis shows that a substantial nominal depreciation of the rupee against the
dollar   - by 43% in 2010 - does not constitute a threat to debt sustainability in the long run. This is
because foreign currency denominated debt constitutes a small proportion o f total state debt in Orissa,
despite including $625 million o f four DPL operations and some project financing. The interest-revenue
ratio stabilizes at a slightly higher level o f 17.9% as against 17% without depreciation o f the rupee
(Figures 5a & b).



  35  ,          Figure 5a                                                Figure 5 b
                                                        I 400 1
                           Interest -to-Revenue Ratio % I 350 c                    Debt-to-RevenueRatio(O h )




  15  1-    Go0 Reform Scenario-

            B4nominal depreciation incurrency                     - - - -B4 nominaldepreciationin

   5                                                                     currency in 2010



      2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2019            2003 2005   2007    2009   2011 2013  2015     2017 2019




                                                       5

                                                                                                              Annex 7




                                                    Statement of Loans and Credits
07/06/2006
                                                                                                      Difference between
                                                                                                      expected and actual
                                                                                                        disbursements
Project ID  FY  Project Name                                      IBRD    IDA  GRANT   Cancel. Undisb.    Orig.  Frm Rev'd
PO50655    2004 RAJASTHAN HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT                       89                   76.87    34.77
PO73776    2004 ALLAHABAD BYPASS                                   240                         168.52    96.52
PO73094    2003 AP Comm Forest Mgmt                                       108                   56.31     -3.79
PO45049    2000 AP DPlP                                                   111                   15.97     7.64
PO71272    2003 AP RURAL POV REDUCTION                                  150.03                  47.91     9.45
PO84792    2005 Assam Agric Competitiveness                               154                  141.52     13.76
PO69376    2000 CFC PRODTN SECTOR CLOSURE ODS 111 INDIA                        85.34            24.68     -1.96
PO76467    2003 Chatt DRPP                                              112.56          20.06   89.82    37.12
PO73651    2005 DISEASE SURVEILLANCE                                       68                   62.00     14.07
PO55459    2004 ELEMENTARY EDUCATION PROJECT (SSA)                        500                  101.61  -105.68
PO75056    2003 Food & Drugs Capacity Building Project                   54.03                  44.66     22.43
PO79865    2004 GEF Biosafety Project                                            1.oo            0.76      0.71
PO10566    2001 GUJARAT HWYS                                       381                 101.00   38.76   139.76      108.76
PO71244    2001 Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project               589                         236.51   236.51
PO74018    2002 Gujarat Emergency Earthquake Reconstruct                 442.8          80.23  146.26   153.74       14.36
PO84632    2005 Hydrology II                                    104.98                         104.46     26.11       0.30
PO86518    2005 IN SME Financing & Development                     120                          19.40      4.40
PO59501    2000 IN-TA for Econ Reform Project                              45           12.03   19.08     27.13       1.80
PO94513    2005 India Tsunami ERC                                         465                  400.66   152.37
PO67216    2001 KAR WSHD DEVELOPMENT                                     100.4          20.06   52.41     56.79      39.93
PO70421    2001 KARN HWYS                                          360                          89.32     64.32
PO71033    2002 KARN Tank Mgmt                                            98.9          25.07   61.44     51.70      -2.11
PO50653    2002 KARNATAKA RWSS iI                                        151.6          15.04   85.80     58.03
PO55454    2001 KERALA RWSS                                               65.5          12.27   18.06     16.82       3.10
PO72539    2002 KERALA STATE TRANSPORT                             255                         138.78     35.78
PO79675    2006 Karn Municipal Reform                              216                         216.00
PO78832    2006 Karnataka Panchayats Strengthening Proj                   120                  120.83
PO82510    2004 Karnataka UWS Improvement Project                  39.5                         28.39     16.29
PO77856    2005 Lucknow-Muzaffarpur National Highway               620                         524.23    -35.77
PO73369    2004 MAHAR RWSS                                                181                  143.16     15.98
PO84790    2005 MAHARWSlP                                          325                         293.18    -19.82
PO69889    2002 MIZORAM ROADS                                               60                  35.31     11.95
PO59242    2001 MP DPlP                                                  110.1          20.06   16.08     23.05      -8.59
PO50668    2002 MUMBAI URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT                     463      79                 377.76    158.96
PO73370    2005 Madhya PradeshWater Sector Restructurin          394.02                        371.58     38.01
PO93720    2006 Mid-Himalayan (HP) Watersheds                               60                  55.49      -2.06
PO92735    2006 NAlP                                                      200                  203.00
PO09972    2000 NATIONAL HiGHWAYS 111 PROJECT                      516                          165.45   165.45      65.45
PO85345    2005 ODS IV-CTC Sector Phaseout Project                              53.04            35.92     -3.12
PO86414    2006 Power System Development Project Ill               400                          400.00
PO55455    2001 RAJ DPEP II                                               74.4                   26.87     16.94
PO40610    2002 RAJWSRP                                                    140           15.04   85.91    46.48
PO10505    2000 RAJASTHAN DPlP                                          100.48                   40.59     31.42     26.38
PO49770    2000 REN EGY II                                          80      50           18.00   41.70     57.98     56.98
PO77977    2005 Rural Roads Project                                99.5    300                  273.40    -25.59
PO50658    2001 TECHN EDUC 111                                            64.9                   14.20      8.11      -2.95
PO79708    2006 TN Empwr & Pov Reduction                                   120                  109.70     -6.85
PO75058    2005 TN HEALTH SYSTEMS                                       110.83           20.06   81.91      6.22      9.73
PO50649    2003 TN ROADS                                           348                          269.76     64.46
PO83780    2006 TN Urban 111                                       300                          283.29      9.04
PO72123    2003                                                            250           40.11  164.80     57.44     -23.58
PO50657    2000                                                            110           30.09   37.74     57.77       0.74
PO67606    2003                                                    488                          348.50    155.66
PO50646    1999                                                          194.1                    8.96      5.30      -3.69
PO50647    2002                                                          149.2           40.11  101.71    104.35
PO78550    2004 UttarWtrshed                                             69.62                   63.19     -2.03
Overall Result                                                     6339 5259.45 139.38  469.23 7180.16  2104.14      286.62

                                                                              Annex 7

                                 INDIA
                            Statement of IFC's
                        HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                              As of4/30/2006
                         (InUSDollarsMillions)

                                      Held                   Disbursed

FY
Approval Company         Loan    Equity   Quasi Partic Loan    Equity Quasi
2005     ADPCL            40.77        7      0      0     0        0     0
2006     AHEL                 0      5.08     0      0     0     5.08     0
2005     AP Paper Mills      35         5     0      0     15       5     0
2005     APIDC Biotech        0        4      0      0     0     1.24     0
2002     ATL              14.15         0     0   9.36  14.15       0     0
2003     ATL                  1         0     0      0  0.68        0     0
2005     ATL               9.69         0     0      0     0        0     0
2003     BHF              10.64         0  10.64     0  10.64       0  10.64
2004     BILT                 0         0     15     0      0       0     15
2001     BTVL              0.72         5      0     0   0.72       5      0
2003     Balrampur         12.41        0      0     0  12.41       0      0
2001     Basix Ltd.           0      0.98      0     0      0    0.98      0
2005     Bharat Biotech       0         0    4.5     0      0       0    3.3
1984     Bihar Sponge      5.83         0      0     0   5.83       0      0
2001     CCIL                  6        0      0. 5.75      6       0      0
2003     CCIL                1.5        0      0     0   0.59       0      0
1990     CESC              6.87         0      0      0  6.87       0      0
1992     CESC              9.82         0      0  21.89  9.82       0      0
2004     CGL                  15        0      0      0     8       0      0
2004     CMScomputers          0       10    2.5      0     0       0      0
2002     COSMO             3.75         0      0      0  3.75       0      0
2005     COSMO                 0     3.73      0      0     0    3.73      0
2005     DCM Shriram          30        0      0      0    30       0      0
2003     DQEL                  0       1.5   1.5      0     0      1.5    1.5
2005     Dabur                 0    14.09      0      0     0   14.09       0
2003     Dewan             10.75        0      0      0 10.75        0      0
2006     FederalBank           0     31.5      0      0     0   27.43       0
2001     GTF Fact              0       1.2     0      0     0      1.2      0
2006     GTF Fact              0         0  0.99      0     0        0  0.99
1994     GVK                   0         5     0      0     0        5      0
2003     HDFC               100          0     0   100    100        0      0
1998     IAAF                  0     0.47      0      0     0      0.3      0
2006     IAL                   0     9.86      0      0     0      7.7      0
1998     IDFC                  0    10.82      0      0     0    10.82      0
2005     IDFC                 50         0     0   100      0        0      0
         IHDC               7.16         0     0      0     0        0      0
2006     IHDC               8.15         0     0      0     0        0      0
1995     IL&FS VC              0     0.03      0      0     0     0.03      0
2006     Indecomm              0     2.57      0      0     0     2.57      0
1996     IndiaDirect Fnd       0       1.1     0      0     0     0.66      0
2001     IndianSeamless        6         0     0      0     6        0      0



                                           2

                                                                       Annex 7

1992     Indus VC Mgt CO     0   0.01     0    0      0   0.01     0
2006     JK Paper           15   11.5     0    0      0   11.26    0
         KMahindra
2005     INDIA             22       0     0    0     22      0     0
2005     KPIT               11    2.5     0    0      4      0     0
2003     L&T                50      0     0    0     50      0     0
2002     MMFSL            8.69      0  7.76    0   8.69      0   7.76
2003     MSSL                0   2.29     0    0       0   2.2     0
2001     MahInfia            0     10     0    0       0   0.79    0
         Montalvo            0      3     0    0       0   1.08     0
1996     Moser Baer          0   0.82     0    0       0   0.82     0
1999     Moser Baer          0   8.74     0    0       0   8.74     0
2000     Moser Baer      12.41   10.54    0    0   12.41  10.54     0
2001     NIIT-SLP         8.37      0     0    0       0      0     0
         Nevis               0      4     0    0       0      4     0
2003     NewPath             0   9.31     0    0       0   8.31     0
2004     NewPath             0   2.79     0    0       0   2.49     0
2003     Niko Resources  24.44      0     0     0  24.44      0     0
2001     Orchid              0   0.73     0     0      0   0.73     0
1997     Owens Coming     6.83      0     0     0   6.83      0     0
2006     PSLLimited         15   5.19     0     0      0   4.98     0
2004     Powerlinks      75.34       0    0     0  66.24      0     0
1995     PrismCement      5.54       0    0   1.5   5.54      0     0
2004     RAKIndia           20       0    0     0     20       0    0
1995     RainCalcining       0    2.3     0     0      0    2.3     0
2004     Rain Calcining     10       0    0     0     10       0    0
2005     Ramky            3.86   10.61    0     0      0       0    0
2005     Ruchi Soya         10      10    0     0      0     7.5    0
2001      SBI               50       0    0     0      0       0    0
1997      SREI            3.21       0    0     0   3.21       0    0
2000      SREI               7       0    0     0      7       0    0
1995      Sara Fund          0    3.43    0     0      0   3.43     0
2004      SeaLion         4.54       0    0     0   4.54       0    0
2001      Spryance           0     1.9    0     0      0     1.9    0
2003      Spryance           0    0.95    0     0      0   0.95     0
          Sundaram
2004      Finance        44.32       0    0     0  44.32       0    0
2000      SundaramHome       0    2.18    0     0      0   2.18     0
2002      SundaramHome    7.39       0    0     0   7.39       0    0
1998      TCW/ICICI          0     0.8    0     0      0     0.8    0
2005      TISCO            100       0    0   300      0       0    0
2004      UPL             16.48      0    0      0 16.48       0    0
1996      UnitedRiceland  6.25       0     0     0  6.25       0    0
2005      UnitedRiceland   8.5       0     0     0     3       0    0
2002      Usha Martin        0    0.72     0     0     0   0.72     0
2001      VysyaBank          0    3.66     0     0     0   3.66     0
2005      Vysya Bank         0    3.51     0     0      0  3.51      0
1997      WIV                 0   0.37     0     0      0   0.37     0
          Walden-Mgt
1997      India               0   0.01     0     0      0   0.01     0

     Total Portfolio:    931.38 230.79 42.89 538.5 563.55 175.61 39.19




                                       3

                                                                   Annex 7




                                Approvals PendingCommitment
                               Loan   Quasi Equity Quasi Partic
2004        CGL                     10    0     0      0      0
2000        APCL                   7.1     0   1.9     0      0
2004        CIFCO                    0 22.07    0  22.07      0
2006        IDFC B Inc               0     0    0      0   100
2001        Vysya Bank               0     0    0      0      0
2006        FederalBank             10     0    0      0      0
2001        GIWindFarms           9.79 0.98     0   0.98      0
2004        Ocean Sparkle            3     0    0      0      0
2005        Allain Duhangan          0     0    0      0      0
            Lok
2006        Microfinance             0     0     2     0      0

 Total Pending Commitment:       39.89 23.05   3.9 23.05   100




                                      4

                                                                                                                         Annex 8



                                           India at a dance                                                                           6/21/06



POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                      South        Low-
                                                              lndia      Asia      income       )eveloprnent diamond'                        I
2004
Population,mid-year (millions)                              1,079.7      1,447       2,343
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                             630        590          510                   Life expectancy

GNI (Atlasmethod, US$ billions)                              680.3        859        1,188

Average annual growth, 1998-04                                                                                      T
Population(%)                                                   1.6        1.7         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                  1.9        2.1         2.2      GNI                                    Gross
                                                                                                per                              i    primary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available, 1998-04)                                            capita                             enrollment
Poverty(% of populationbelownationalpovertyline)                29
Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                           29          29          31
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                 63          63          58
Infant mortality(per 1.000live births)                          62          66          79
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder 5)                        47          49          43            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improved water source (% ofpopulation)             86          84          75
Literacy(% ofpopulation age 15+)                                61          61          61
Gross primaryenrollment I%of school-agepopulation)             107         103         100       -      lndia        Low-incomegroup
   Male                                                        111         108         105
   Female                                                      104          97          94

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                   1984        1994      2003         2004      Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billionsj                                 206.5     322.6       600.7       694.7
Gross capitalformationlGDP                          21.6       23.4       27.2        30.1
Exportsof goods and servicesiGDP                     6.5       10.0       14.8         19.0                        Trade

Grossdomestic savingdGDP                            18.8       24.8       28.9        29.1
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                           19.4       26.0       32.0         31.4

Currentaccount balance/GDP                          -1.4       -1.2         1.7        -1.o
Interestpayments/GDP                                 0.5        1.3       18.4         16.8      Domestic                          Capital

Total debtlGDP                                      16.5       31.8       19.2         17.5      savings                           formation

Total debt service/exports                          18.3       26.6       12.6          7.3
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                  16.7
Presentvalue of debffexports                                              87.4
                                                                                                                Indebtedness
                                      1984-94 1994-04          2003      2004      2004-08
(average annual gromfhj
GDP                                        5.4       5.8        8.3        8.5          6.9
GDP percapita                              3.3       4.1        6.7         7.0         5.5              lndia         Low-incomegroup

Exportsof goods and services               9.0      13.3        5.8       39.3




                                                                          2003        2004      Growth of capital and GDP (%)
(% of GDPj
Agriculture                                         35.2       30.4       21.o         19.6     20

Industry                                            26.2       27.1       26.4         27.3      10
   Manufacturing                                    16.4       16.9        15.4        16.0
Services                                            38.7       42.5       52.5         53.2        0

 Household final consumptionexpenditure             69.0       66.2        62.9        60.7     - i o
General gov't final consumptionexpenditure          10.8       10.7        11.2        11.3
Importsof goods and services                         7.9       10.3        16.1        21.0     -         -GCF             - O I G D P

                                                                                               1
 (average annualgrowth)                          1984-94 1994-04          2003        2004      Growth of exports and imports (%)

Agricuhre                                            3.4        2.1        10.0
 Industry                                            6.3        5.7         7.6
   Manufacturing                                     6.2        5.5         7.1
Services                                             6.7        8.1         8.2

 Household final consumptionexpenditure              5.7        5.3         8.9
 General gov't final consumptionexpenditure          4.8        6.0         2.4
 Grosscapitalformation                               5.0        6.1        15.8        12.8
 Importsof goodsand services                         8.4       11.0        16.8        41.9


 Note: 2004 data are preliminaryestimates. 2004 represents Indian FiscalYear 2004-05,which runs from April 1 to March31.
  The diamondsshow four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) compared with its income-groupaverage. If data are missing, the diamondwill
   be incomolete.

14&4  19134    ZUQS  2QO4


 4 'I  i I;
 7 4   ! i f




1984  $994                 EX    t




1984  1994




1984  19J4     2Q04  2WQ

             1      I




             7
             c

                                                                                                                   Annex 8


                                         India Social Indicators

                                                              Latest single year                 Same regionlincome group


                                                                                                          South          Low-
                                                       1980-85       1990-95      1998-2004                Asia        income
POPULATION
Total population, mid-year (millions)                    765.1         932.2        1,079.7              I,446.8       2,343.0
  Growth rate (% annual average for period)                2.1            1.9            1.6                 1.7            1.9
Urban population (YOof population)                        24.3          26.6            28.5               28.3            30.6
Total fertility rate (births per woman)                    4.4           3.4             2.9                 3.1            3.7

POVERTY
(% of population)
National headcount index                                                36.0            28.6
  Urban headcount index                                                 32.4            24.7
  Rural headcount index                                                 37.3            30.2
INCOME
GNI per capita (US$)                                      290            380             620                 594           507
Consumer price index (2000=100)                            28             69             117                 115           120
Food price index (2000=100)                                28             76             ioa
INCOMElCONSUMPTlONDISTRIBUTION
Gini index                                                                               32.5
Lowest quintile (% of incomeor consumption)                                               8.9
Highest quintile (% of income or consumption)                                           43.3
SOClAL INDICATORS
Publicexpenditure
  Health (YOof GDP)                                                                       1.2                1. I           1.3
  Education (% of GDP)                                                    3.7             4.1                2.4            3.1
Netprimalyschool enrollmentrate
(% of age group)
  Total                                                                                   87                  aa             79
      Male                                                                                90                  90             a2
      Female                                                                              a4                  85             75
Access to an improvedwater source
(% of population)
  Total                                                                    68             86                  a4             75
      Urban                                                                88             96                  94             89
      Rural                                                                61             a2                  ao             69
Immunizationrate
("hof childrenages 12-23months)
  Measles                                                     1            72             56                  61             64
  DPT                                                       l a            71             64                  67             67
Child malnutrition (YOunder 5 years)                                       53             47                  48             43
Lifeexpectancy at birth
(years)
  Total                                                    57              61             63                  63             59
      Male                                                 57              61             63                  63             58
 . Female                                                   57             62             64                  64             60
Mortality
   Infant (per 1,000 live births)                           97             74              62                 66              79
   Under 5 (per 1,000)                                     146            104              a5                 92            122
  Adult (15-59)
      Male (per 1,000population)                           261           236              241                237            300
      Female (per 1,000population)                         279           241              161                169            246
   Maternal (modeled,Per 100,000 live births)                                             540                564            682
Birthsattended by skilled healthstaff (%)                                  34              43                 36              40

 Note:0 or 0.0 meanszero or less than half the unit shown. Net enrollment rate: break in series between 1997 and 1998 due to
changefrom ISCEDEto ISCED97. Immunization:refers to children ages 12-23 months who receivedvaccinations before one
year of age or at any time beforethe survey.

World DevelopmentIndicatorsdatabase, World Bank       - 5April 2006.

MAP SECTION


                                 82                                                                                       84                                                                  86

               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                               BIHAR                                                              WEST
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                  BENGAL
               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                  SUNDARGARHSUNDARGARH
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                         Sundargarh
            22                                                                                                                                                                  Baitarani
                     0       20        40      60       80                 100 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                      Baripada               22



                     0            20             40                        60 MILES                      Jharsuguda
                                                                                                            JHARSUGUDAJHARSUGUDA                                                          R.                MAYURBHANJMAYURBHANJ


                                                                                                                                                                                  Kendujhargarh


                                                                                                                             Sambalpur            DEOGARHDEOGARH                                                                           Baleshwar
                                                                                                                                              Deogarh                        KENDUJHARGARHKENDUJHARGARH
                                                                                                    Bargarh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BALESHWARBALESHWAR
                                                                                             BARGARHBARGARH                SAMBALPURSAMBALPUR                     Brahmani



                                                                                                                                                      ANGULANGUL          R.                                               Bhadrak
                   MADHYA                                                                                  SONAPURSONAPUR                                                                                             BHADRAKBHADRAK
                                                                                                                                                                            DHENKANALDHENKANAL
                                                                                                                         Sonapur
                   PRADESH                                                                                                                  Mahanadi       Angul                                 JAIPURJAIPURBrahmaniJaipur
                                                   Nuaparha                                                                   Bauda
                                                          NUAPNUAPAARHARHA               Balangir                         BAUDABAUDA                R.                  Dhenkanal                                        R.KENDRAPARAKENDRAPARA
                                                                                   BALANGIRBALANGIR                                                                                                                      Kendrapara
                                                                                                                                                                                CUTTACKCUTTACK Cuttack
                                                                                                    TelR.
                                                                                                                         Phulabani                                                                              Mahanadi     R.
                                                                                                                                                      NAYAGARHNA AGARH
                                                                                                                                                                       BHUBANESHWAR                     Devi   Jagatsinghpur
                                                                                                                                                       Nayagarh                                                  JAGATSINGHPURJAGATSINGHPUR
                                                                                                                         PHULABANIPHULABANI                                   KHORDHAKHORDHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                            R.                                        20
            20
                                    NABARANGAPUR                                     Bhawanipatna

                                                                                 KALAHANDI
                                                                                 KALAHANDI                                                                                           PURIPURI  Puri

                                                                                                             Vansadhara                                                                                                 Bay of
                                                                                                                                               GANJAMGANJAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Bengal
                                                                                            RAYAGADA
                                                                                            RA AGADA                   R.                                        Chhatrapur
               Indravati                       Nabarangapur

                                  R.                                                  Rayagada                                 GAJAPATI

                                                                                                                                                                                              INDIA
                                                          KORAPUTKORAPUT
                                                                              Koraput                                      Parlakimidi                                      STATE OF ORISSA

                                                                                                                                                                                                       DISTRICT CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                       STATE CAPITAL
                               Malkangiri
                                                                                                                                                                                                       DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

AUGUST             MALKANGIRI
                   MALKANGIRI                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD
                                                                                                                                                                                                       STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                            ANDHRA PRADESH

            18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18     33341
      2004
                                82                                                                                         84                                                                    86

