Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4225-IN 
LOAN NUMBER 4837-IN 
 
Operations Agreement 
 
(Second Operation under the Orissa Socio-Economic Development Program) 
 
among 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
STATE OF ORISSA 
 
Dated  August 28, 2006 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4225-IN 
LOAN NUMBER 4837-IN 
 
OPERATIONS AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated August 28, 2006, entered into among INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and STATE OF ORISSA 
(“Orissa”) acting by its Governor (“Operations Agreement”) in connection with the 
Financing Agreement of same date between India, acting by its President (“Recipient”) 
and the Association (“Financing Agreement”) and the Loan Agreement of same date 
between India, acting by its President (“Borrower”) and the Bank (“Loan Agreement”). 
The Association, the Bank and Orissa hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Financing Agreement 
(“Association General Conditions”) and the Appendix to the Loan Agreement 
(“Bank General Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Operations agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Financing 
Agreement, the Loan Agreement or the General Conditions or in the Appendix to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
—PROGRAM
 
2.01. 
Orissa declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation  To this 
end Orissa shall carry out the Program in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the Association General Conditions and Article V of the Bank 
General Conditions, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Program. 
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Association, the Bank and Orissa shall otherwise agree, Orissa shall 
carry out the Program in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
2.03 
(a)  
Orissa shall from time to time, at the request of the Association and the 
Bank, and with the participation of the Recipient/Borrower, exchange 
views with the Association and the Bank with regard to the progress of 
the Program, the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan. 
 
Page  3
-2-
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, Orissa shall furnish to the 
Association, the Bank and the Recipient/Borrower for their review and 
comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, 
in such detail as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Orissa shall promptly inform the Association, the Bank and the 
Recipient/Borrower of any condition, which interferes or threatens to 
interfere with the progress of the Program, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit and the Loan, or the performance by Orissa of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Section, Orissa shall exchange views with the Association, the Bank 
and the Recipient/Borrower on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit or the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken 
under the Program, including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
2.04. 
 (a) 
 
 
Orissa shall utilize the amounts transferred to it by the 
Recipient/Borrower pursuant to Part D.2 of Schedule 1 to the Financing 
Agreement and the Loan Agreement exclusively for its budgetary 
expenditures.  Orissa undertakes that the proceeds of such amounts shall 
not be used to finance any expenditures under a contract in respect of 
which the Association or the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by any representative of 
Orissa or any beneficiary of the Credit or the Loan during the 
procurement or execution of such contract, without Orissa having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association and the 
Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
(b) 
If the Association or the Bank determines at any time that an amount was 
used to make a payment for any expenditure not consistent with 
paragraph (a) above, Orissa shall, upon request from the Association or 
the Bank as the case may be, refund such amount to the Borrower for 
further refund to the Association or the Bank. Amounts refunded to the 
Association or the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
TERMINATION 
 
3.01. 
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which the 
Financing Agreements and the Loan Agreement become effective. 
 
Page  4
-3-
3.02. 
The date on which the provisions of this Agreement shall terminate is 20 years 
after the date of this Agreement provided, however, that this Agreement shall 
terminate on an earlier date upon the termination of both the Financing 
Agreement pursuant to Section 8.05 of the Association General Conditions and 
the Loan Agreement pursuant to Section 9.05 of the Bank General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE IV
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
4.01. 
Orissa’s Representative is it’s Chief Secretary. 
 
4.02. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
4.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
4.04. Orissa’s 
Address 
is: 
 
Chief Secretary 
 
Government of Orissa 
 
Bhubaneswar, Orissa 
 
India 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
845-2239 CSGK IN 
91-80-2258913 
Page  5
-4-
 
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  
 
/s/ Rachid Benmessaoud 
Acting Regional Vice President 
South Asia 
 
STATE OF ORISSA 
 
By  
 
/s/ Sri K.C. Badu 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-5-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Execution of the Program 
 
Section I. 
Program Reports
1. 
Orissa shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Program and prepare 
Program Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.07(b) of the Association 
General Conditions and Section 5.07(b) of the Bank General Conditions and on the basis 
of indicators agreed with the Association and the Bank. Each such Program Report shall 
cover the period of one fiscal semester, and shall be furnished to the Association, the 
Bank and the Recipient/Borrower not later than sixty (60) days after the end of the period 
covered by such report. 
 
2. 
Orissa shall provide to the Recipient/Borrower not later than October 31, 2008, 
for incorporation in the report referred to in Section 4.07(c) of the Association General 
Conditions and Section 5.07 of the Bank General Conditions all such information as the 
Recipient/Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request for the 
purposes of such Section. 
 
Section II.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports; Audits
1. 
Orissa shall, no later than thirty (30) days after the receipt of the Rupee amounts 
transferred to it by the Recipient pursuant to Part D.2 of Schedule 1 to the Financing 
Agreement and by the Borrower pursuant to Part D.2 of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement, provide a confirmation to the Association and the Bank showing the date and 
the Rupee amounts received from the Recipient and the Borrower, and stating that such 
amounts have been credited to the Consolidated Fund of Orissa on that same date. 
 
Section III. 
Other Undertakings
2.  
Unless the context otherwise requires, as long as the Bank has not given notice to 
the contrary to Orissa, and so long as the Financing Agreement shall not have terminated 
prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement: 
 
(a) 
the obligation of Orissa to consult with, and furnish Program Reports 
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to the Bank and/or the 
Borrower shall be satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obligations is 
rendered to the Association and/or the Recipient; and 
 
(c) 
all actions taken (including giving of approvals or granting of waivers) 
by the Association pursuant to the Financing Agreement shall be deemed to be taken 
pursuant to both the Financing Agreement and the Loan Agreement, and in the name and 
on behalf of the Association and the Bank. 
Page  7
-6-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Program Actions 
 
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The actions taken by Orissa under the 
Program referred to in the Preamble to the Financing Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement include the following: 
 
Growth-enhancing Reforms
1. 
Orissa has amended the Orissa Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1956 to lift 
state monopoly and enable private investment in marketing yards and storage 
facilities for agricultural products, and to regulate the sale of agricultural produce 
through contract farming outside of market yards.  
 
2. 
Orissa has, continued with the implementation of its industrial policy (IPR 2001) 
and has enacted the Orissa Industries Facilitation Act, 2004 and the Orissa 
Industries Facilitation Rules, 2005, providing, inter alia, for streamlining the 
approval and operation of projects by private sector enterprises through the 
introduction of a single combined application form, formulation of self 
certification procedures and rationalization of inspections under applicable laws 
and regulations
.
3. 
Orissa has, consistent with its Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization Policy, 
taken further measures to reform the public enterprises, including: 
 
(a) 
selling the assets of two closed enterprises; 
 
(b) 
initiating the environment audit of twenty enterprises; and 
 
(c) 
privatizing two enterprises. 
 
4. 
Orissa has continued progress on power sector reforms including initiating 
implementation of the order dated February 28, 2005 passed by the Orissa 
Electricity Regulatory Commission, relating to the business plan of the 
Distribution Companies, to improve financial viability of the sector including: 
 
(i) 
payment by one government department of accumulated 
electricity dues to CESCO that have been reconciled as of  
March 31, 2006; 
 
(ii) 
payment of electricity bills by state government departments to 
the Distribution Companies on an average of at least 90% of 
billing in Fiscal Year 2005-2006;  
 
Page  8
-7-
(iii) 
execution of agreements between CESCO and two municipal 
authorities for the supply of electricity; and 
 
(iv) 
initiated steps to designate special courts to try electricity theft 
cases. 
 
Fiscal Reforms and Expenditure Policy
5. 
Orissa has enacted Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2005 
providing for, inter alia, responsibility of the state government to ensure 
prudence in fiscal management and fiscal stability, and greater transparency in 
fiscal operations, and has, consistent with the said Act: 
 
(i) 
achieved the projections made under the budget for fiscal year 
2005-06; and 
 
(ii) 
made fiscal projections and disclosed financial information in the 
budget for fiscal year 2006-07. 
 
6. Orissa 
has: 
 
(a) 
converted the primary deficit of Rs.7125 million (1.3% of Gross State 
Domestic Product (GSDP) in Fiscal Year 2003-04 into a primary surplus 
of Rs.19960 million (3.4% of GSDP) in Fiscal Year 2004-05; 
 
(b) 
reduced the overall fiscal deficit from 6.6% of GSDP in 2003-04 to less 
than 3% of GSDP in 2004-05; 
 
(c) 
reduced the share of salaries in current expenditures (net of interest and 
pension) from 57% in 2003-04 to 54% in fiscal year 2004-05 and to less 
than 50% (according to revised estimates) in fiscal year 2005-06; 
 
(d) 
Improved ratio of actual spending to targeted outlay in the approved 
Annual Plan from 91% in fiscal year 2003-04 to more than 95% in fiscal 
year 2004-05; and 
 
(e) 
Improved utilization of central assistance earmarked for specific 
schemes, as ratio of pending amount at the beginning of the year, from 
68% in fiscal year 2004-05 to 73% in fiscal year 2005-06. 
 
Public Expenditure Management and Governance Reforms
7. 
Orissa has, as a part of its efforts to strengthen public accountability, formulated 
and approved an anti-corruption action plan covering measures to strengthen 
Page  9
-8-
prevention, enforcement and public awareness, and reform in the system of 
public procurement. 
 
8. 
Orissa has taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency and 
productivity of the civil service, including redeploying about 1800 employees 
from surplus to deficient departments, identifying vacant regular posts for 
abolition, and abolishing 15,000 posts during April
 
2004-April 2006. 
 
9. 
Orissa has initiated implementation of the Development Action Plan for 
strengthening financial accountability including enhanced disclosure of financial 
information in the budget for fiscal year 2006-07 and posting monthly accounts 
of rural local bodies on its website. 
 
Human Development
10. Orissa 
has
 
initiated implementation of the short term recommendations of the 
Organizational Review of the Department of Health completed in 2002 for 
reorganization of the said Department including abolition of select posts and 
conversion of paramedics to district cadre. 
 
B. 
Actions to be Taken Under the Program
.
The actions to be taken by Orissa 
under the Program referred to in Part C of Schedule 1 to the Financing Agreement and 
the Loan Agreement include the following: 
 
1. 
Orissa has made progress, satisfactory to the Association and the Bank in 
 
carrying out the Program. 
 
2. 
The macroeconomic policy framework of Orissa is appropriate, including further 
strengthening of the fiscal position beyond FY 2005-06 towards achieving the 
targets and objectives of the Medium-Term Fiscal Plan. 
 
Page  10
-9-
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Medium Term Fiscal Plan” means Orissa’s plan dated January 2006 for the 
period covering Fiscal Year 2005-2006 to 2009-2010 and setting out the State’s 
own fiscal correction path in order to comply with the requirements of the Fiscal 
Responsibility and Budget Management Act (2005) of Orissa; and ; 
 
2. 
“Annual Plan” means Orissa’s development plan for each Fiscal Year as 
approved by the Planning Commission of the Government of India. 
 
