Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
NEGOTIATIONS STAGE 
 
Report No: AB2457  
 
Project Name 
Orissa Socio-Economic Development Loan/Credit II 
Region 
South Asia region 
Sector 
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management 
Project ID 
P097036 
Borrower(s) 
Government of India 
Implementing Agency 
Government of Orissa 
Date PID Prepared 
June 23
rd
,
2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
August 1, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Located on India’s east coast, between West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, Orissa comprises 4.7% 
of India’s land mass, 3.7% of the population (some 38 million people) and over 5% of India’s 
poor. Despite its rich endowment of mineral wealth, forests, lakes, rivers and a long coastline 
facing South-East Asia, Orissa remains among the poorest of India’s major states. Annual per 
capita income in the state (about US$ 250) is not much more than it was twenty years ago; 
whereas other Indian states that were equally poor in the early 1980s have marched ahead. 
Orissa’s economic growth lagged behind the all-India average throughout the 1990s, with the 
interior lagging further behind the coastal districts.  The State has also been highly fiscally 
stressed, with the fiscal deficit peaking at nearly 10% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in 
1999/00; and with interest spending, pensions and wages consuming all of the state’s revenues. 
 
The present government, led by the Biju Janata Dal, a regional party and an ally of the Bhartiya 
Janata Party, was elected in early 2000 for a five year term. Unlike in many other Indian states, 
elections held in Spring 2004 returned the incumbent Chief Minister and coalition in Orissa, for a 
second term that extends until 2008-09. The renewed mandate strengthened the commitment of 
the Chief Minister and his team to press ahead in implementing the reform program and to widen 
its scope. Subsequently, the Bank Board approved the first of a proposed series of development 
policy loans/credits in November 2004
1
,
to support the state’s Socio-Economic Development 
Program, a cross-cutting program of institutional and policy reforms.  
In light of Orissa’s fiscal crisis, the early phase of the reform program focused on the immediate 
necessity of fiscal correction. Orissa has achieved remarkable progress in its fiscal correction 
objectives, and has over fulfilled the targets set in its medium-term fiscal plan (2003-08). The 
focus of the reform effort has now shifted to support more rapid, broad based and inclusive 
economic growth. Substantial progress has already been made in the implementation of reforms 
in the regulatory environment for private investment.  Economic growth has picked up, reaching 
an average of 8.4% over the past years; ahead of the All-India average, and nearly double the 
growth rate of the 1990s.  Moving forward, the program will progressively address the huge 
challenges the state continues to face in achieving sustainable, shared economic growth and 
accelerating human development. In this context, increased emphasis is being placed in this 
operation on measures to further improve the performance of agriculture and allied activities in 
1
R2004-0192,/2(IDA/R2004-0243/2) 
Page  2
2
which the majority of the poor are engaged, alongside continuing measures to improve the 
business climate, including measures to strengthen a regulatory framework for managing 
environmental and social impacts of resource-intensive investment. GoO has also initiated new 
actions to improve the performance of social protecti
on,
tribal development and women’s 
empowerment. These include much greater attention to the impact of mining and allied private 
sector development on tribal communities and a better framework for greater sharing of benefits. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The objective of the proposed second Orissa Socio-Economic Development Loan/Credit (OSEDL 
II) is to support the continued implementation of structural, fiscal and administrative reforms 
needed to boost inclusive economic growth and achieve rapid poverty reduction over the medium 
term.   In the absence of adjustment support, GoO would either resort to more expensive sources 
of borrowing, thereby compromising the objective of fiscal sustainability, or there will be anti-
growth and anti-poor expenditure reductions, undermining progress towards the development 
goals. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The proposed Orissa Socio-Economic Development Loan/Credit (OSEDL II) would be the 
second in a series of Operations to support the medium-term program for socio-economic 
development of Orissa. Following a fiscal crisis in 1999, the State has in recent years 
implemented a number of measures to significantly reduce fiscal imbalances and has established 
a
track record of reform beyond the fiscal domain. The multi-pronged approach of GoO’s reform 
program includes: (i) reforms focusing on enhancing agricultural productivity, security of land 
rights and market access for poor farmers and forest dwellers, improving the business 
environment for private investors including strengthening regulatory framework for managing 
environmental and social impacts of resource-intensive investment; and reform of public 
enterprises; (ii)  fiscal, financial management and public accountability reforms, including anti-
corruption measures and public procurement reforms, aimed at achieving creditworthiness while 
creating additional fiscal space for high priority developmental spending, and promoting more 
efficient and transparent management of the government’s financial resources; and (iii) cross-
cutting and sector specific reforms in public administration and service delivery, including and  
especially for human development – i.e., education, health and social protection/anti-poverty 
programs. 
 
Specific actions and achievements supported by this Operation include: 
·
Introduction of amendment to the Orissa Agricultural Produce Markets 
Act so as to lift state monopoly and enable private investment in 
marketing yards and storage facilities.   
·
Continued progress with implementation of (non-power) Public Enterprise 
reforms, including selling the assets of two closed enterprises, initiating 
the environmental audit of twenty enterprises, and privatizing two 
enterprises.  
·
Further power sector reform measures including to curb theft and to 
ensure timely and full payment of current electricity bills by state and 
local Governments. 
·
Elimination of primary (i.e., non-interest) fiscal deficit.  
Page  3
3
·
Fiscal outcomes in 2005-06, budget execution in 2006-07, and targets for 
2007-08 in compliance with the Orissa Fiscal Responsibility and Budget 
Management Act. 
·
Begin implementation of Action Plan to strengthen financial 
accountability. 
·
Government approval of Anti-Corruption Action Plan. 
·
Continued implementation of civil service reforms. 
·
Implementation of first phase of reorganization of the Department of 
Health along the lines of Organization Review; and progress in 
implementing the drug management policy. 
The proposed operation supports measures to boost rapid, and shared economic growth in one of 
the under-developed states of India, to expand income earning opportunities and access to 
improved basic services for the poor.  The program will also improve the efficiency of spending 
and reduce 
the state’s dependence on debt financing, while increasing fiscal space for 
development expenditures along with a rise in their output and outcome orientation. Bank support 
is complemented by reform-linked assistance from GoI.
 
The Government of Orissa’s overall reform program faces three kinds of risks. First, possible 
adverse environmental or social impacts could result in resistance that could stall some of the 
reforms and block private investments. The necessity and urgency of mitigating such risks has 
been highlighted by recent controversies and conflict over land acquisition for mineral based 
industries. Second, exogenous shocks could slow down fiscal adjustment and growth.  Third, 
implementation may be slower than planned because of institutional capacity constraints. 
To ensure high economic and social benefits to the state’s population, GoO is taking a number of 
steps, including: (a) empowering thousands of tribal and other women centering on Self Help 
Groups; (b) enhancing agricultural productivity and market access for small farmers, (c) 
enhanced allocation of funds for health, education and social protection especially in the most 
under-developed regions, (d) accelerating broad-based economic growth by reforming the 
regulatory framework for private enterprise, and (e) paying increasing attention to managing the 
risk of negative impacts of extractive industries on the natural environment and on people 
residing in mineral rich forests. 
A
new state-wide Rehabilitation & Resettlement Policy has been adopted and notified in May 
2006.  GoO is also working on policy initiatives for broader sharing of the benefits of natural 
resource based growth, taking into account international good practices. 
Several factors further contribute to a mitigation of political risks.  Elections for the Orissa 
Legislature in 2004 have returned the same alliance and Chief Minister to power. Fairly broad 
ownership of key program objectives has been built among senior political leaders, bureaucrats 
and civil society, through extensive consultations that are ongoing.  The Government of India is 
also strongly supportive of Orissa’s reform program. 
Enactment of the Orissa Fiscal Responsibility & Budget Management Act, 2005, and adoption of 
an updated Medium-Term Fiscal Plan (MTFP) consistent with it, reduces the risk of deviating 
from the fiscal correction path approved by the State Legislature.  Sensitivity analysis conducted 
by the Bank team shows that a temporary growth shock in one year will only postpone the 
achievement of fiscal correction targets by about one year.
 
4.    Environmental Aspects 
Page  4
4
The Orissa Socio-Economic Development Program anticipates that, while broadening its sources 
of growth, a significant part of Orissa’s future economic growth will be based on natural 
resources and extractive industries. In that context, there is a risk that the technical and 
administrative capacity of the state environmental regulators – the Orissa Pollution Control Board 
(OPCB) and the Forest Department - would be inadequate to perform their due diligence 
functions – to provide appropriate clearances and monitor/enforce compliance - for an increasing 
number of development projects as a result of reduced entry costs. To address this issue, a 
program of planned actions is being proposed to build the capacity of the OPCB to meet its 
anticipated needs, as supported by this operation, as well as a parallel TA program financed by 
the Bank. This World Bank TA operation will also support the government’s efforts to develop 
and implement plans for strengthening the Forest Department’s capacity to perform conservation 
functions. In addition, in respect of the mining sector,  GoO and its Department of Mines and 
Steel, in cooperation with other relevant Departments, have also agreed to undertake, with Bank 
assistance, a strategic environmental and social assessment of the mineral sector and develop, on 
that basis,  an action plan to mitigate and manage environmental and social risks.  It will draw on 
lessons of best practices and risk mitigation strategies in other mining dependent countries and in 
India. 
 
5.    Tentative financing 
Source:  
($m.) 
IDA/IBRD 225 
 
6.    Contact point 
 
Marina Wes 
Senior Economist 
1818 H Street 
Washington DC 20433 
Tel: (202) 458 1390 
 
V.J. Ravishankar 
Lead Economist 
70 Lodi Estate 
New Delhi 110 003 
Tel: (91) 11 461 7241 
 
