Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1870 
Operation Name 
Orissa Socio-Economic Development Loan/Credit II 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Sub-national government administration (60%);General 
agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (10%);Health 
(10%);General industry and trade sector (10%);General education 
sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P097036 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Implementing Agency 
OVERNMENT OF ORISSA 
Date PID Prepared 
October 24, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
December 31, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Located on India뭩 east coast, between West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh, Orissa comprises 4.7% of India뭩 land 
mass, 3.7% of the population (some 38 million people) and over 5% of India뭩 poor. Despite its rich endowment 
of mineral wealth, forests, lakes, rivers and a long coastline facing South-East Asia, Orissa remains among the 
poorest of India뭩 major states. Annual per capita income in the state (about US$ 250) is not much more than it 
was twenty years ago; whereas other Indian states that were equally poor in the early 1980s have marched ahead. 
Orissa뭩 economic growth lagged behind the all-India average throughout the 1990s, with the interior lagging 
further behind the coastal districts.  The State has also been highly fiscally stressed, with the fiscal deficit peaking 
at nearly 10% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in 1999/00; and with interest spending, pensions and 
wages consuming all of the state뭩 revenues. 
 
The strategic challenge facing Orissa in the years to come is: to accelerate its growth rate and to improve its 
human development indicators through improved quality of public investments. Meeting these challenges will 
require on-going reforms. To sustain broad-based and rapid economic growth, Orissa needs to (i) improve 
infrastructure including road connectivity, ports, access to power and water; and (ii) create a climate for 
environment-friendly and socially beneficial private investment to take place in the state, learning from the past 
negative experience of environment and social constraints discouraging private investment.  Orissa has the 
potential to attract private investment in a range of sectors including mineral-based manufacturing, tourism, 
handlooms and handicrafts, fisheries, horticulture, high quality rice, medicinal plants and other export oriented 
small and medium-scale industries; it is also potentially a key port for Indian exports to South-East Asia.
 
.
Improving human development indicators will require both creating the fiscal space for additional expenditure 
and institutional/governance reforms to improve service delivery. 
 
The present government, the Biju Janata Dal, a regional party and an ally of the Bhartiya Janata Party, was elected 
in early 2000 for a five year term. Unlike in many other Indian states, elections held in Spring 2004 returned the 
incumbent Chief Minister and coalition in Orissa, for a second term that extends until 2008-09. The renewed 
mandate strengthened the commitment of the Chief Minister and his team to press ahead in implementing the 
reform program and to widen its scope. Subsequently, the Bank Board approved the first of a proposed series of 
development policy loan/credit in November 2004
1
,
to support the state뭩 Socio-Economic Development Program, 
a
cross-cutting program of institutional and policy reforms. The India CAS, approved by the Board on August 26, 
1
R2004-0192,/2(IDA/R2004-0243/2) 
Page  2
2004
2
,
highlights support for poor and reforming states as one o
f
the major thrusts of the Bank뭩 assistance 
strategy in India.  Orissa is one of India뭩 poorest states and also one of the most consistent reformers in recent 
years, thus making it an ideal candidate for continued Bank support.    
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of the proposed second Orissa Socio-Economic Development Loan/Credit (OSEDL II) is to support 
the continued implementation of critical structural, fiscal and administrative reforms needed to boost economic 
growth and achieve rapid poverty reduction over the medium term.  The easing of fiscal constraints and 
improvements in systems of service delivery will, among other things, enable Orissa to effectively utilize 
additional project and program assistance in key sectors from the central government and external donors in future 
years.  In the absence of adjustment support, GoO would either resort to more expensive sources of borrowing, 
thereby compromising the objective of fiscal sustainability, or there will be anti-growth and anti-poor expenditure 
reductions, undermining progress towards the development goals. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed Orissa Socio-Economic Development Loan/Credit (OSEDL II) would be the second in a proposed 
series of 3-4 Operations over a five-year period to support the medium-term program for socio-economic 
development of Orissa,. Following a fiscal crisis in 1999, the State has in recent years implemented a number of 
measures to significantly reduce fiscal imbalances and has established a track record of reform beyond the fiscal 
domain. The multi-pronged approach of GoO뭩 reform program includes: (i) growth-enhancing reforms focusing 
on improving the business environment for private investors, and on privatization, closure and restructuring of 
public enterprises; (ii)  fiscal, financial management and public accountability reforms aimed at restoring the 
state뭩 financial health, creating additional fiscal space for high priority developmental spending, and promoting 
more efficient and transparent management of the government뭩 financial resources; (iii) public administration 
and service delivery reforms focusing on improving service delivery, increasing government efficiency and 
reducing corruption; and (iv) reforms aimed at greater and better investments in health, education and social 
protection including through better use of data in policy making and increased emphasis on program evaluation. 
 
Specific actions and achievements supported by this Operation include: 

Implementation of measures to rationalize regulation of entry of private investors, 
including reduction in number of application forms from 18 to 1; and introduction of 
Industrial Facilitation Bill to establish a Single Window Clearance system 

Introduction of amendment to the Orissa Agricultural Produce Markets Act so as to lift 
state monopoly and enable private investment in marketing yards and storage facilities.   

Further power sector reform measures including to curb theft and to ensure timely and full 
payment of current electricity bills by state and local Governments. 

Continued progress with implementation of (non-power) Public Enterprise reforms.  

Elimination of primary (i.e., non-interest) fiscal deficit by 2004-05.  

Execution of the 2004/05 budget, and formulation of the budget for 2005/06 consistent 
with the Medium-Term Fiscal Plan tabled in the State Legislature in 2004; and its 
institutionalization in the form of the Orissa Fiscal Responsibility & Budget Management 
Act, 2005. 

Continued implementation of civil service reform by (i) further reduction in the salary bill 
for temporary workers over the 2003/04 level; (ii) identification and elimination of 75% of 
2
R2004-0170. 
Page  3
vacant regular posts at entry level (except for freeze exempted posts); and (iii) 
maintenance of recruitment freeze with selected exceptions. 

Implementation of first phase of reorganization of the Department of Health along the lines 
of Organization Review; and progress in implementing the drug management policy. 
 
The reforms supported under Operation, and more broadly under the State뭩 reform program, are expected to 
make contributions to reducing poverty in several ways.  Some of the main mechanisms through which the 
program would impact poverty are as follows: 
 

Orissa뭩 fiscal reforms will enable a greater share of resources to be focused on poverty-related 
expenditures.  The MTFP seeks to reorient public spending towards high-priority developmental spending 
(social sector spending, non-wage O&M, capital spending) that will provide primary education, health, 
basic social and infrastructural services to the poor and to productive enterprises that employ the poor, 
including support for improved agricultural performance
.

Orissa뭩 structural reforms in agriculture and private sector development seek to enable private sector led 
growth of markets for agricultural produce, and improve the investment climate by easing the regulatory 
burden on the private sector.  This will enhance economic growth and employment opportunities.  The 
governance reforms would reduce corruption and harassment, which tends to hurt the poor 
disproportionately. 

The comprehensive poverty and human development monitoring system (PHDMS) will help the state 
take account of actual progress to reorient policy towards the Millennium Development Goals.  

Negative impacts on displaced workers through the public enterprise reforms are being mitigated, 
including through severance packages, counseling and relocation guidance. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
A
large forest dependent population, coupled with a resource and pollution intensive industrial structure, makes 
Orissa highly vulnerable to environmental degradation.  Insufficient attention to managing these external costs in 
the past, has fueled resistance to economic reforms and the investment that is necessary to alleviate poverty.  By 
promoting growth and fiscal stability this Operation will provide the budget space that is necessary to address the 
environmental and social impacts of a resource dependent development strategy.  The proposed reforms in this 
Operation also respond to some of the state뭩 environmental problems:  Privatization and public enterprise 
restructuring will be accompanied by comprehensive environmental audits that are designed to address pollution 
legacy issues and promote compliance.  Power sector reforms may also yield an environmental dividend by 
reducing rural dependence on fuel wood.  However, a time bound, single window clearance process for 
investments may pose risks.  There are concerns that administrative capacity may be insufficient to meet the 
stipulated deadlines, without compromising the basic environmental protection afforded by legislation.  These 
risks are compounded by possible rationalization of environmental agencies.  To sustain the state뭩 resource 
intensive growth pattern there is therefore a need to enhance both the quality and efficiency of environmental 
protection.  This is being addressed through appropriate analytical and advisory services from the World Bank, 
and through potential technical assistance from the Bank and other donors, especially the UK DFID. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
150 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
75 
 Total 
225 
 
6. Contact point 
Page  4
Contact: Marina Wes 
Title: Sr Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-1390 
Fax:  
Email: 
mwes@worldbank.org
Contact: V.J. Ravishankar 
Title: Sr. Economist 
Address: 70 Lodi Estate, New Delhi 110 003 
Tel: (91) 11 461 7261
 
