Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2018 
Operation Name 
Colombia 
Labor Reform and Social Development Policy Loan
 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General Education sector (20%);Health (20%);Other social 
services (60%) 
Project ID 
P094097 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Republic of Colombia 
Ministry of Finance 
Carrera 7A #6-45 
Colombia 
Tel: 571 350 1200 
Fax: 571 350 9344 
agamboa@minhacienda.gov.co
Date PID Prepared 
December 6, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 14, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 27, 2006 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Labor Reform and Social Development Policy Loan (formerly known as the PLaRSSAL III)
1
is 
the third in a series of three programmatic loans designed to support the Government of Colombia’s 
(GOC) objectives to: (a) strengthen social protection; (b) raise human capital formation; (c) increase 
employability; and (d) enhance monitoring and evaluation systems for better transparency, social 
oversight, and results management in the social sectors.  The loans in this series have supported a 
sustained effort by the Colombian Government to implement the social and labor strategies defined 
in the Uribe Administration’s National Development Plan (NDP) that was formulated in 2002 to 
guide policy through 2006, and underpins the long term vision that is under development by the 
DNP.   
 
Since November 2004, when the PLaRSSAL II was approved, the GOC has continued to advance 
the social and labor agenda.  In addition to further carrying out the lines of action that were 
supported by the PLaRSSAL, new initiatives have been undertaken in several sectors, most notably in 
the education sector with greater emphasis on pre-school and post-secondary (non-professional) 
education and in early childhood development at the sub-national level.  The Ministry of Social 
Protection is beginning to implement regulations and systems to improve the financing of and 
provision of social insurance and assistance programs.  This has been accompanied by big strides in 
the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) agenda, including consolidation and greater public 
accessibility of the results of public sector actions, as well as strengthening of social accountability at 
national and sub-national levels.  Other areas, after initial actions, will experience a shift in strategy, 
reflecting an increased results-management orientation of the GOC.  Most notably, the GOC 
continues to experiment with employment programs to support hard-to-employ workers, and a 
renewed initiative to identify and correct the structural constraints to further increases in 
immunization rates is underway. 
1
The loan in this series were referred to as Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment Loans 
–
PLaRSSALs – but the “SAL” portion of the title had to be changed to reflect “Development Policy Loan”.  
Thus, the new title is the Labor Reform and Social Development Policy Loan. 
Page  2
Given the, in general, better-than-anticipated advances in the labor and social agenda, a the request 
from the GOC for continued Bank support to complete the social and labor reform agenda laid out 
in the NDP, and continued GOC financing needs, a third loan in the PLaRSSAL series is proposed.  
This instrument is proposed over a stand-alone operation since this operation would support same 
the three objectives identified in the PLaRSSAL I and II (see below), but it would also support 
initiatives to consolidate the gains made during the Administration to strengthen the sustainability of 
reforms.   
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
In light of the earlier  PLaRSSAL loans and the recent advances in the GOC’s labor and social policy 
reform agenda, the Labor Reform and Social DPL proposes as its objectives to:   
 
(a) strengthen social protection and service delivery,  
(b) raise human capital development,  
(c) expand opportunities in the labor market, and  
(d) enhance monitoring and evaluation systems for better transparency, social oversight, and results 
management in the social sectors. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The operation can be couched in terms of the medium-term goals proposed in the PLaRSSAL policy 
matrices and which are also applicable to the third operation.  These goals, along with the prior actions 
are outlined below: 
 
·
6RFLDO\033URWHFWLRQ
.
Medium term goal.  
Institution of an effective authority in charge of developing a comprehensive social 
risk management system to provide efficient and timely protection of the poor and vulnerable against 
the threats and consequences of illness, unemployment, poverty and economic volatility.   
Prior action.
 
Improve the Ministry of Social Protection’s ability to increase social protection coverage 
and efficiency through: strengthening the regulatory framework and improving management 
information systems.   
 
·
(DUO\\03&KLOGKRRG
.
Medium term goal
.
Greater access of poor children to ICBF Assistance and Prevention programs 
through the establishment of an explicit targeting policy and practices to ensure their cost-
effectiveness. 
Prior action
.
Further implementation of the ICBF policy to improve targeting, local government 
participation, and quality control on services delivered to children from poor families. 
 
·
+HDOWK
.
Medium term goal
.
Improvement in the Expanded Program of Immunization (PAI) and advances in 
the implementation of health system reform, further expanding health insurance coverage of the 
poor, reducing direct subsidy to public hospitals, and ensuring quality of services of health insurers 
and care providers. 
Prior action
.
Consolidation of the 1993 Health Reform by increasing insurance coverage among the 
poor, improving efficiency of public spending, and strengthening financial sustainability of the sector.   
 
Page  3
·
/DERU\03DQG\037UDLQLQJ
.
M
edium term goal.  
Implementation of labor and training reforms to reduce the wedge between 
employers’ hiring/training cost and workers’ acceptable wage, while improving the social protection 
of workers. 
Prior action.
 
Continued implementation of Law 789 and CONPES 081 to  improve the efficiency and 
accessibility of skills training opportunities and strengthen social protection for unemployed workers.  
 
·
(GXFDWLRQ
.
Medium term goal.  
Acceleration of education reforms to provide access to good quality education, 
from pre-school through technological tertiary education levels.   
Prior action.
 
Increase coverage and improve education quality from pre-school, to  technological 
tertiary education, through measures to strengthen teacher quality and assess and monitor academic 
achievement. 
 
·
0RQLWRULQJ\03DQG\03(YDOXDWLRQ\03\0b0\09(\0c\03DQG\036RFLDO\037UDQVSDUHQF\
.
Medium term goal.  
Greater transparency and social control of social programs through their periodic 
evaluation and greater participatory oversight by citizens.  
Prior Action:  
Consolidate tools and 
strategies for monitoring and evaluation to enhance results management, transparency, and social 
oversight of social programs. 
Prior action.
 
Consolidate tools and strategies for monitoring and evaluation to enhance transparency 
and social oversight of social programs.   
 
The Labor Reform and Social DPL is proposed in the amount of US$200 million, to be dispersed in a 
single tranche.   This operation is being developed in close collaboration with the IDB team that is 
preparing their first Programmatic Social Adjustment Loan for Colombia.  The objective of the IDB 
programmatic social operations is to enhance equity of social services by focusing on a re-allocation of 
social expenditures toward the poor.  This strategy was intentionally selected to complement the Bank’s 
PLaRSSAL series/Labor Reform and Social DPL focus on efficiency of social and labor programs and 
policies. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The Labor Reform and Social DPL team has considered environmental impacts of the operation and has 
concluded that the loan should not be expected to have any adverse environmental effects.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 100 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
200 
 Total 
300 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Wendy Cunningham 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2384 
Fax: (202) 522 0050 
Email: 
wcunningham@worldbank.org
