Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2302 
 
Operation Name 
Co - 3
rd
 Labor Reform and Social DPL 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General education sector (30%); Health (30%);Other social services 
(40%) 
Project ID 
P094097 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Republic of Colombia 
Ministry of Finance 
Carrera 7A #6-45 
Colombia 
Tel: 571 350 1200 
Fax: 571 350 9344 
dsolano@minhacienda.gov.co
Date PID Prepared 
April 4, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 30, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
July 6, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
The Government of Colombia (GoC) has been successful in getting the country back on track after the 
1998-1999 economic crisis.  The effects of the crisis are fading as GDP growth resumed to 5.1 percent 
annually in 2005, private investment doubled to 12 percent between 1999 and 2004, and unemployment 
rates are at their lowest point since the crisis.  Poverty rates continue their downward trend and the 
coverage of social programs has expanded significantly without putting additional strain on the national 
budget.  The efforts to provide employment opportunities, expand the quality and quantity of education 
services, provide affordable healthcare to even the poorest Colombians, expand the social safety net, and 
build tools to allow for social oversight and transparency are key factors for poverty reduction and are 
expected to reduce poverty in the long-run.  Related, security conditions have improved significantly 
since 2002 and the GoC has brokered several demobilization agreements with guerrilla fighters and illegal 
self-defense forces after years of previous failures, further improving the welfare of the population. 
 
Despite these advances, significant challenges in the labor and social sectors persist.  Although poverty 
rates are declining, short-run growth has not been pro-poor, demonstrating structural constraints to 
poverty reduction that require more than strong growth rates to resolve them.  Generous public 
expenditures in training have not been adequate as the market is slow to absorb the labor, resulting in the 
stubbornly high unemployment rates relative to the pre-crisis period.  While education coverage and 
quality have been increasing at all levels, Colombia still lags behind the Latin America and Caribbean 
Region in terms of coverage, and behind the world in terms of quality of education.  Many poor still do 
not have adequate protection against financial losses from illness nor access to good quality basic health 
services, although coverage has expanded since 2002 and health expenditures are nearly double those (as 
a
proportion of GDP) of the Latin American average.  The young from poor families are at a particular 
risk due to nearly a decade of limited health and early education services.  Although 2006 is an election 
year and may bring in a new administration, the GoC is continuing to address these issues by further 
implementation of the labor and social reform 
agenda laid out in the GoC’s National Development Plan 
Page  2
for 2002-2006, and creating a momentum behind many reforms so that they can be maintained, if not 
strengthened, in the next administration.
 
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed Labor Reform and Social Development Policy Loan (LaRSDPL III) would:  (a) strengthen 
Colombia’s social protection system and improve the delivery of social services, (b) raise human capital 
formation, (c) improve employability, and (d) enhance monitoring and evaluation systems for better 
transparency, social oversight, and results management in the social sectors.   
 
These objectives would be achieved by (i) developing an integrated and more efficient social protection 
system through additional regulations and processes to improve coverage and targeting of social 
protection programs in education, health, early childhood development, labor and job training , (ii) 
implementing Law 715, which inter alia, introduces incentives to enhance and measure quality in the 
education sector, (iii) increasing labor force opportunities by the implementation of Law 789 and Policy 
Agreement (CONPES) 081 to create a National Job Skills Formation System, and (iv) building 
monitoring and evaluation tools and processes to enable public oversight and improve policymaking in 
the social and labor sectors.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The Bank has been working with the GoC in the labor and social sectors since 1999.  The World Bank 
has supported the GoC in several ways, including: the development and implementation of a social safety 
net to respond to the labor and social impacts of the crisis, the implementation of the Uribe Government’s 
social and labor reform agenda through a Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Structural Adjustment 
Loan (PLaRSSALs; Loan No. 71930-CO approved September, 2003 and Loan No. 72590-CO approved 
November 2004), and the provision of extensive analytical and technical advisory work.  Due to the rapid 
pace of reforms in the labor and social sectors, the Government requested further policy support in the 
social and labor sectors via a third Labor and Social operation, which was included in the Colombia 
Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report (CASPR; Report No. 32999-CO) discussed by the Bank’s 
Executive Directors on September 29, 2005.    
 
The proposed operation supports the three general goals identified in the PLaRSSALs – strengthen social 
protection, raise human capital formation, and increase employment – and it is also designed to 
consolidate the gains made during the Administration to allow for sustainability of reforms.  This 
completes the circle: the PLaRSSAL I - prepared during the first year of the Administration - focused on 
developing the regulations for reforms, the PLaRSSAL II – prepared at the end of the second year of the 
Administration - focused on implementation of the reforms, and the PLaRSSAL III – prepared in the last 
18 months of the Administration - would focus on consolidation of reforms and their sustainability. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 100 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
200 
Total 300 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The administration of this Loan will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and Credit.  While 
the Bank team would work with the Ministry of Finance, it would focus most of its efforts on the 
Page  3
implementation of the prior actions and monitoring results of program actions with the National Planning 
Department, Ministry of Social Protection, Ministry of Education, Institute for Family Well-Being, and 
the National Job Training Institute. Given the May election, the change of Government in August 2006,  
the Bank team will need to focus on supporting the continuation of the operation’s policies during the 
government’s transition phase. 
 
6. Benefits 
and 
Risks 
 
Specific outcomes of the proposed Labor Reform and Social DPL solidify and build on the gains forged 
during the earlier programmatic operations (PLaRSSALs), specifically they include: 
·
Doubling the coverage of the infant breakfast program to one million children, from a base of 
517,000 in 2004 
·
Sustaining the size of the apprenticeship program by filling 75,000 apprenticeships positions in 
2005, following an increase from 33,000 to 74,000 during 2002-2004 
·
Expanding the coverage of job training benefits to 3.8 million beneficiaries from a base of 2.9 
million in 2004 
·
Distributing unemployment subsidies to 100,000 individuals annually (40% from the informal 
sector), from a base of 65,000 in 2004 
·
Allocating publicly provided health insurance to 16.4 million poor people, up from 13.7 million 
in 2004 
·
Enrolling 8.9 million children in primary and secondary education, from a base of 8.5 million in 
2004 
·
Providing 260,000 vulnerable children access to education services, from a base of 100,000 in 
2002 (this action was not previously supported under PLaRSSALs) 
·
Completing two impact evaluations of social programs and preparing four others, from a base of 
four under preparation in 2004 
 
The potential risks for this operation are expected to be moderate and they are also anticipated to be well 
managed by the GoC.  Three types of risks were identified:  general, social sector specific, and 
transitional: 
 
General risks
 include the internal conflict and violence, fiscal austerity, and external political or 
economic shocks; while these risks have been present throughout the tenure of the Uribe 
Administration, they may be exacerbated by the electoral process.  The GoC is mitigating these risks, 
with the support of the Bank and other donors, through continued implementation of the peace 
program, implementation of reforms to improve the fiscal situation, and careful management of 
relationships with neighbors.   
 
S
ocial sector specific risks 
that may affect the sustainability of the reforms into the next 
administration include the complexity of the reform process, sustaining actions with long-run benefits 
that impose short-run costs, and pressure by special interest groups that are negatively affected by the 
reform process.  The GoC, with Bank support, has implemented several strategies to address their 
risk:  institutional change that would be difficult to reverse, good monitoring and evaluation of 
programs to demonstrate the effectiveness of reforms, sharing and discussing goals and results with 
the public so that civil society is better able to carry forward the reform program into the next 
government, actions to increase revenues for use in the social sectors and increase program 
efficiency, and direct dialogue with public and private groups.   
 
T
ransition-related risk 
relates to the use of social sector policies to influence the upcoming 
Presidential elections.  This risk is being mitigated by the GoC via a continued emphasis of the line 
Page  4
Ministries on the same principles that have guided them since 2002 
–
results-management, 
institutional reform, and fiscal austerity – and legislation to limit use of public monies for electoral 
purposes. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Social and Poverty Impact.
The policies supported by the proposed operation are expected to have 
significant positive social impacts and poverty alleviation effects.  Key expected social outcomes under 
the proposed operation are:   
A
decline in child malnutrition due to a more than doubling of the number of poor children, aged 
0-5 (SISBEN I or II), receiving Infant Breakfasts (
Desayunos Infantiles
)
and greater access to 
health insurance through an expansion of the Subsidized Health Insurance Regime 
 
An increase in child well-being through greater attention to early childhood development 
programs (ECD) at the municipal level, both in term of municipal policies as well as through 
improved allocation of resources to municipalities with the greatest ECD needs 
 
Greater coverage of social protection programs through the creation of a unified database of 
beneficiaries that will allow the Ministry of Social Protection to identify those who are eligible 
for, but not receiving, benefits and to redirect resources toward those most in need 
 
Improved health (and lower poverty) for 2.7 million additional poor individuals through 
affiliation to the Subsidized Health Insurance Regime  
Greater quality of public programs through information and public feedback to enhance policy-
making  
In addition, other measures are expected to have significant direct effects on poverty reduction: 
Increase labor market access, earning ability, and general well-being of Colombia’s future adults 
through an increase in primary and secondary school 
quality
 by
implementing quality standards 
for instructors and use of standardized testing to identify schools that need to improve their 
methods and development of school improvement plans to meet those goals, and an increase in 
quantity
 of
education through an increase in primary and secondary enrolments, with special 
attention to the vulnerable children by using innovative service delivery mechanism to reach 
160,000 students, who would otherwise not have access to primary and secondary education  
 
Greater labor market earnings and lower unemployment of today’s youth through increased 
access to job training with innovative service delivery mechanisms, an expanded apprenticeship 
program, and improvement in quality of job preparation services through the implementation of 
the newly regulated National Job Skills Formation System  
 
Less poverty of those who change their labor market status – either through job loss or through 
entry to the informal sector – by having the right to buy into the social security system and, for 
100,000 Colombians, for access to an unemployment subsidy. 
 
Less poverty of today’s labor force that is benefiting from the labor reforms, which have been 
shown to have increased employment (marginally), decreased under-employment, and decreased 
informal sector attachment. 
 
Page  5
Environmental Impact.
Following OP 8.60, the operation was reviewed for any potential effects relating 
to the environment, forest, and natural resources.  As this loan focuses on strengthening the institutions, 
policy framework, and quality of social protection in Colombia, it has been determined that the operation 
is not likely to have any significant effects on the environment.  In the framework of the CAS, the Bank 
does recognize and is supporting the Colombian Government in strengthening the environmental 
sustainability of its development program, as is evidenced by the Programmatic Development Policy loan 
for Sustainable Development approved by the Bank’s Board on 6/21/05. 
 
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Wendy Cunningham 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2384 
Fax: (202) 522 0050 
Email: wcunningham@worldbank.org 
 
9.   For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
