Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7400-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Labor Reform and Social Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 7, 2006 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7400-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated August 7, 2006, entered into between the REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I
—GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
—LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of two hundred million Dollars 
($200,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.08 of this 
Agreement (the 
“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject 
to any waiver of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from 
time to time. 
 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) 
of the Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be 
Page  3
-
2
-
determined by the Bank from time to time.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end 
Fee not later than sixty days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any 
waiver of a portion of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time 
to time; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion 
Period on such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
2.07.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) 
a
change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
2.09 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the 
provisions of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably 
request. 
 
ARTICLE III
—PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
At any time after requesting an exchange of views with the Borrower as 
provided for in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Bank has 
determined that a situation has arisen which, in the opinion of the Bank, 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, 
will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
At any time after requesting an exchange of views with the Borrower as 
provided for in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Bank has 
determined that the 
Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has, in 
the opinion of the Bank, become inconsistent with the objectives of the 
Program. 
 
(c) 
At any time after requesting an exchange of views with the Borrower as 
provided for in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Bank has 
determined that an action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to 
reverse any action or policy under the Program (including any action listed 
in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in 
the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives 
of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V
—EFFECTIVENESS
 
Page  5
-
4
-
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness 
Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later 
than the eighteen (18) mon
ths after the Bank’s approval of the Loan which expire on 
January 25, 2008. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 7A, No. 6-45, Piso 3 
Bogotá, D.C. 
Colombia 
 
Cable 
address: 
    Facsimile: 
MINHACIENDA 
   (571) 
350-9344 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
Page  7
-
6
-
AGREED at 
Bogotá, Colombia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By /s/ Alberto Carrasquilla 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Borrower has issued the following regulations to facilitate broader access to 
social security benefits: (a) 
Acuerdo
 No. 304 of October 14, 2005, facilitating mobility 
between the
 Borrower’s 
Régimen Contributivo 
and
 Régimen Subsidiado
 health regimes; 
and (b) Presidential Decree No. 3615 of October 10, 2005, for the collective affiliation of 
independent workers to the Integrated Social Security System. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has improved the targeting and increased the coverage of ICBF 
nutritional programs by reaching an aggregate of over 1,000,000 children under 6 years 
old (all of them pertaining to families classified as SISBEN 1 and 2 that benefit from 
ICBF
’s nutritional program 
Desayunos Infantiles
). 
 
3. 
The Borrower has expanded subsidized health insurance coverage (
Régimen 
Subsidiado
)
by reaching an aggregate of over 16.4 million poor and vulnerable 
individuals affiliated to said regime. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has taken the following actions to expand apprenticeship and 
training opportunities for workers: (a) issued Presidential Decree No. 2020, of June 16, 
2006, 
creating the SNFT’s accreditation system for private sector training firms; (b) 
incorporated over 75,000 workers into various apprenticeships and training opportunities; 
(c) allocated over 27.2% of the 2005 budget of SENA to train unemployed workers; (d) 
increased the number of private sector training courses (as approved by SENA under 
article 37 of the Borrower’s law 789) to 212 courses; and (e) increased the percentage of 
students in training courses provided by private sector contractors to 15.4%. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has implemented innovative education programs to increase 
coverage among vulnerable children and youth enrolled in primary and secondary 
education levels, reaching over 260,000 students currently enrolled in targeted programs 
of this kind. 
 
6. 
The Borrower has taken the following actions to increase public access to 
information, facilitating social oversight: (a) executed an agreement by which technical 
responsibility over SIGOB is transferred from the Borrower’s Presidential office to the 
DNP; (b) developed the SIGOB website allowing access of the public to relevant 
information such as public budget management and perception surveys, as well as 
provided access to the Borrower’s prospective implementation plan for 
Conpes
 
Document No. 3294 through DNP’s website; and (c) executed various contracts to 
undertake impact evaluations on a set of the Borrower’s social programs. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Loan shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  
The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars) 
Single Tranche 
$200,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT
$200,000,000 
C. 
Payment of Front-end Fee.  
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan 
Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
D. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: 
 
1. 
All withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; 
and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan 
into this
 account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s 
budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any 
time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to 
the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 30, 2007. 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (
“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each March 15 and September 15 
 
Beginning September 15, 2015 
 
through March 15, 2019 
 
12.5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn 
Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount 
of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is the 
original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal 
Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals 
made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the 
Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if 
the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1.
 
“Conpes Document” means an authoritative statement of government policy and 
guidelines issued by the Borrower’s Executive’s National Council of Social and 
Economic Policy; 
 
2. “DNP” 
means 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
,
the Borrower’s National 
Planning Department. 
 
3. 
 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, 
or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) 
(the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to 
the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667  
Pearls, 
precious 
and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
Page  13
-
12
-
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods 
designated as environmentally hazardous by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank); 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations; and 
 
(f) 
under a contract with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds 
during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
5. “ICBF” 
means 
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
,
the Borrower’s 
Institute for Family Welfare. 
 
6.
 
“Integrated Social Security System” means the Borrower’s 
Sistema Integrado de 
Seguridad Social
,
a
social security system that comprises, 
inter alia
,
a
contributory 
health regime or 
Régimen Contributivo
 and a subsidized health regime or 
Régimen 
Subsidiado
.
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated May 17, 2006, from the Borrower to the Bank 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the continued execution of the Program, 
Page  14
-
13
-
and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
8. 
“SENA” means 
Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
,
the Borrower’s National 
Learning Service System. 
 
9. “SIGOB” 
means 
Sistema de 
Información y Seguimiento a Metas de Gobierno 
the 
system implemented by the Borrower’s Presidential Office with the objective of, 
inter alia
,
efficiently monitoring and managing presidential priorities, following 
up on goals set by the Borrower’s governmental councils and carrying out public 
media monitoring. 
 
10. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
11. “SISBEN” 
means
 Sistema de Identificación y Selección de Beneficiarios de 
Programas Sociales
,
a
targeting instrument for social public expenditures under 
the Borrower’s Law 715, which ranks families according to several socio-
economic variables.  Families classified as ‘SISBEN 1’ are generally those with 
earnings below the extreme poverty line; families classified as ‘SISBEN 2’ are 
generally those with earnings above the extreme poverty line but below the 
poverty line. 
 
12. “SNFT” 
means 
Sistema Nacional de Formación del Trabajo
,
the Borrower’s 
National System for Job Training.  
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 are as follows:   
 
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts
)
and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  15
-
14
-
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) 
is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan 
Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal 
Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Loan Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“
‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in 
support of which the Loan is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
Page  16
-
15
-
