Report No. PID8801
Project Name                     Lithuania-Second Structural (@)
Adjustment Loan (SAL II)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Structural Adjustment Lending
Project ID                       LTPE68706
Borrower(s)                      Republic of Lithuania
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
J. Tumo-Vaizganto 8a/2
Vilnius 2600, Lithuania
Tel: 370-2-390-111
Fax: 370-2-390-149
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           April 2, 2000
Date Initial PID Prepared        March 8, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 2000
Projected Board Date             July 11, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background. Soon after regaining
independence in 1991, Lithuania faced a severe
transitional recession combined with hyperinflation.
Supported by the Bank and IMF, it responded with
concerted fiscal stabilization, followed by the April
1994 introduction of a dollar-based currency board. In
parallel, Lithuania implemented first generation
economic reforms, including extensive liberalization
and privatization. By 1995, growth had been restored
under lower but still double-digit inflation. However,
gaps in structural policies and institutions, most
notably weaknesses in banking regulations and sectoral
sources of quasi-fiscal deficits (energy, agriculture,
social security), left growth weak and the economy
vulnerable. These fragilities were revealed with the
outbreak of a banking crisis in late-1995, which
nipped a budding recovery. Supported by a World Bank
SAL and IMF EFF, Lithuania responded with concerted
stabilization and an acceleration of reforms. This led
to important structural changes in the economy,
including a significant strengthening of banking
regulation and supervision, a reduction in the problem
of energy arrears, and further progress on
privatization.
2. These reforms spurred economic recovery, reduced
some quasi-fiscal problems, and brought inflation to
single digit levels. However, success combined with
improved access to international capital markets also



bred complacency. This was most evident in the fiscal
sphere, most strikingly in the very costly Savings
Restitution Plan (SRP) and in continued hidden state
support for certain sectors, especially energy. While
many key structural reforms continued, several gaps in
policy remained. In some cases, problems which
demanded comprehensive solutions were addressed
through short-term measures (e.g. granting of loan
guarantees), simply pushing these to the future. These
delays harmed restructuring and brought increased
vulnerability, including in the form of a chronically
high current account deficit.
3. This vulnerability was revealed in mid-1998, when
the Russian crisis triggered a combination of
deflation, a sharp fall in foreign trade, growing
external balances and rising public debt. Real GDP
growth moved from a growth of 5.1% in 1998 to a
decline in 1999. Unemployment rose from 5.4% in July
1998 to 10% at end-1999. Driven by a 59% drop in
exports to the CIS, total exports fell by 19.3% in
1999. These developments again threatened past
progress and showed growth to have been less
sustainable than had been so far assumed.
Vulnerability was initially compounded by an overly
expansionary fiscal policy. Along with automatic
stabilizers, this expansion also reflected the
Government's initial reluctance to recognize the
severity of the crisis, including attempts to actively
counter its impact and to continue with the SRP, as
well the emergence of accumulated quasi-fiscal
imbalances. Fiscal expansion fueled a further rise in
the current account deficit to 12.1% of GDP the first
half of 1999. The difficult post-Russian crisis
situation also led to some backtracking on past
reforms, including a rapid rebound in agricultural
subsidies.
4. By mid-1999, the Government began to recognize the
need for concerted action to reduce fiscal imbalances.
This was evidenced by some reduction of the budget
deficit in 1999:Q3, and by the requests for a
precautionary SBA and SAL. This need for action was
reinforced in October 1999 when several factors
(limited government liquidity, a large budget deficit,
uncertainties regarding the financing needs of one
large enterprise, and a Government crisis) combined to
sharply raise the risk premium on public domestic
debt. As a result, the authorities faced difficulties
rolling over maturing T-bills, and were forced to
implement strict cash rules which led to growing
expenditure arrears. Subsequent fiscal actions,
included a postponement of the costly SRP and adoption
of a tight budget for 2000, have partially restored
confidence and brought some improvement in the current
- 2 -



account balance.
5. Current evidence of renewed growth is mixed.
Positive signals include; restoration of balance to
the domestic T-bill market combined with falling
interest rates; a relatively successful Eurobond
issue; and signs of recovery in exports and industrial
sales in early 2000. However, several less encouraging
signs remain, including; continued weakness of the
Euro, the absence of a visible rebound in budget
revenues, and the additional fiscal burden of
eliminating accumulated arrears. Notwithstanding the
recent improvements in export performance, the
evidence that Lithuanian exporters are successfully
reorienting sales from CIS to Western markets is still
mixed.
6. The Country's Adjustment Program. The Government of
Lithuania has requested a SAL to support and finance
its adjustment program. The ultimate objective of this
program is to put the economy back on a path of rapid
and sustainable growth while maintaining a sustainable
external position, so as to improve the well being of
all its citizens. Building on the macroeconomic and
structural reforms made to date, including those
supported by the first SAL and the Bank's investment
projects and non-lending services, the program does so
by addressing the structural and cyclical factors
behind three key economic challenges currently facing
Lithuania:
Restoring growth. While the Russian crisis was the
main trigger of the recent recession, growth has also
been constrained by low investment efficiency. This
reflects legal and institutional rigidities in firm
exit and entry, inappropriate government assistance
that led to weak budget constraints and moral hazard
in the enterprise sector, inefficient on-lending and
guarantees to public enterprises, cuts in needed
public investment, and the still incomplete
privatization program.
Cutting the fiscal deficit. Along with its cyclical
causes, the pressures on the 1999 fiscal accounts
(both cash outcomes and the new phenomenon of
budgetary arrears) also reflect quasi-fiscal deficits
and structural and policy factors. Among these are
the financial and managerial weaknesses in public
enterprises exacerbated by slow adjustment of
administered prices, increasing financial pressures on
the pay as you go pension system, weaknesses in budget
management (including inflexible revenue forecasts,
weak control over new commitments, and contingent and
implicit liabilities), and more generally, the lack of
a clear understanding of the appropriate role of the
-3 -



state. The use of privatization revenues has also
been controversial.
Limiting the current account deficit. As noted above,
the chronic current account deficit reflects in part
the insufficient public savings, but also a high
private savings/investment gap. Low investment
efficiency contributes indirectly to the current
account deficit by requiring more investment for the
same output growth. On the savings side, structural
weaknesses reduce corporate profitability and savings.
But the current account also reflects weak
competitiveness. From this point of view, the
impediments to enterprise restructuring of the
enterprise sector and the support provided by the
public sector to ailing firms has harmed
competitiveness and export performance. Firms faced
with a soft budget constraint will not forced to
improve efficiency in a fixed exchange rate regime,
one of its key benefits.
7. The Lithuanian authorities understand the urgency
of meeting these challenges. The Government has
followed the initial stabilization measures with
development of a more complete adjustment program to
simultaneously address the immediate budgetary
pressures, remove the underlying sectoral imbalances,
and complete key supporting reforms.
8. The Proposed Loan. The proposed operation would
support the Government in returning to a sustainable
macroeconomic framework, which is a precondition for
successfully implementing the structural reforms
needed to achieve rapid broad-based increases in GDP
and living standards. The Government's overall reform
program has been designed within a macroeconomic
framework consistent with the proposed precautionary
Standby agreement (SBA) with the IMF, agreement on
which was vital for proceeding with the SAL. Release
of the second tranche would be conditional on
maintaining an acceptable macro framework, as
evidenced by the Government's stabilization program
being broadly on track.
9. In addition, the proposed operation would support
five inter-related areas of the Government's
structural and institutional reform program. These
include three broad fields with a heavy structural and
institutional component: budget management,
pensions, and private sector development. The two
other areas of the program are more sector focused, in
particular energy and agriculture, which in the past
have proven to be among the largest sources of
budgetary and quasi-fiscal pressures. For each of
these areas, and even within areas, reforms are at
- 4 -



very different stages of preparation and
implementation. The SAL will focus on discrete policy
reforms and on measures that are critical but
relatively self contained steps of a longer process of
institutional development. In more detail, the five
areas are:
Strengthening budget management is critical to
achieving a sustained increase public savings while
enhancing investment efficiency. The Government plans
to place a heavy weight on reforming government
accounting, changing incentives for supporting
commercial activities, control and governance of
extra-budgetary areas, and improving management of the
core budget to limit unfunded commitments and enhance
medium-run planning.
Pension reform needs to be tackled to increase
national savings. In the near-term, Lithuania needs
to make concrete adjustments in the existing state
pension system to reduce its deficits, and to improve
its incentives and implementation. In the longer
term, a more fundamental pension reform can increase
the depth and liquidity of domestic capital markets
and enhance both the magnitude and efficiency of
investment. The reforms include measures to
strengthen processes directed at seeking consensus on
and designing the longer-term redesign of the pension
system. The program also includes targeted measures to
improve the ability of Lithuania's social assistance
system to mitigate any adverse impacts of other
program measures on the poor.
The main objective of the private sector development
component is to improve efficiency and
competitiveness. Some elements are also crucial for
improving financial sustainability. This program is
wide ranging, but will mostly comprise discrete
measures that complete fundamental reforms such as
privatization, in particular of the state banks, and
reform of the bankruptcy code. The PSD program will
also include discrete measures aimed at eliminating
specific bottlenecks and distortion which hamper
business development, e.g. land issues and other entry
barriers. Finally, the PSD program aims at improving
corporate governance, including through improvements
in auditing and accounting standards and practices.
The energy and agriculture components of the program
will broadly speaking include three types of reforms.
First, the program include discrete measures aimed at
increasing public savings by removing sectoral sources
of quasi-fiscal deficits, including changes in
administered prices and reductions in subsidies.
Second, the program works to remove specific
- 5 -



bottlenecks to the effective functioning of these
sectors, e.g. the functioning of land markets and
weaknesses in governance of public utilities. Third,
the program includes reforms that fundamentally
redefine the role of the state in the two sectors
along the lines required by the European Union. This
last group of measures will ensure the sustainability
of the rise in public savings and increase efficiency.
Particularly important will be the restructuring and
privatization of key energy sector enterprises.
10. Together with the macroeconomic framework, these
reforms are inter-related and mutually supporting,
both across sectors and across types of reforms.     For
example, all five areas together define a
comprehensive package of actions to address both short
and longer-tem causes of fiscal imbalances, from
levels of subsidy and controlled prices levels, the
role of the State and budgetary management processes.
If successful, the SAL, together with the SBA, should
lead to a sustained recovery in growth and export
performance, combined with a gradual decline in the
current account balance. The recovery would be based
on increasing productivity as a result of structural
reforms, in particular that would promote faster
enterprise restructuring, FDI and export
diversification. Government financial management will
become more efficient and transparent, and Government
finances rely less on domestic and external borrowing.
Lithuania will become less vulnerable to external
shocks and increasingly integrated with the EU.
11. Financing and Implementation. The SAL is in the
process of design and discussions with the Government.
At present a loan of about US$100 million is
envisaged, with maturity, currency composition and
other terms still to be agreed. The loan would be made
to the Republic of Lithuania, represented by the
Ministry of Finance, as the Borrower. It is envisaged
that the loan would be released in two equal tranches
following board approval and on fulfillment of the
specific second tranche release conditions.
12. Following the identification mission of the SAL, a
counterpart team had been formed, which is
chaired/coordinated by the Ministry of Finance, and
includes senior representatives from various
Ministries. This team has been active in the dialogue
with the Bank and is expected to continue to help in
the implementation of agreed policy measures to be
supported by the SAL.
13. Poverty Category. The proposed SAL will support
immediate and longer-term poverty reduction through
several channels. Its support for macroeconomic
- 6 -



stability will lessen the risk of shocks which can
impact particularly severely on the living standards
of the poor. By creating confidence, it will allow
Lithuania to mobilize additional foreign financing,
thus reducing the demand contraction needed to
maintain external stability. Its support for
efficiency enhancement will promote longer-term
poverty reduction through faster economic growth.
Measures aimed at curtailing structural sources of
government arrears will ensure more predictable flows
of transfers to those dependent on such payments.
Finally, the SAL will include some direct mitigation
measures to ensure that the poorer segments of the
population are not affected by, or are compensated
for, adverse impacts of the structural reform measures
as well as the macroeconomic adjustment.
14. Environmental Aspects. The loan would have no
direct impact on the environment (in line with the
World Bank operational directive 4.01) and has been
placed in category C which does not require an
environmental assessment.
15. Benefits and Risks. Benefits. The actions under
the SAL will work to consolidate the stabilization
gains made so far, which is especially important given
the currency board regime and the adverse poverty
impacts of severe macroeconomic outturns. At the same
time, it will help the Government articulate a
comprehensive sectoral reform agenda within a
consistent macroeconomic framework, with synergetic
reforms over a range of sectors having a particularly
large impact on growth potential. The Bank's
assessment of the country's structural reform efforts
will provide a positive signal to international
institutions and investors regarding the Government's
commitment to reform and the transition towards a full
fledged market economy. Finally, the associated
financial support will make the adjustment process
more sustainable, particularly as relates to
mitigation of the near-term poverty impact. The
alternative would be either higher interest rates or
more severe transitional recession as demand is
further reduced to maintain external sustainability.
16. Risks. There is substantial uncertainty about
future macroeconomic trends, meaning that both more
and less favorable alternative scenarios cannot be
discounted. Signals about near-term economic trends
remain mixed. In addition, the assumed export-led
recovery is based on some improvement in the external
environment, which could be hampered by a further
weakening of the Euro against the dollar/litas, slower
than expected growth in key trading partners, or
contagion from developments in other emerging markets
-7 -



leading to a cut in capital inflows and a new credit
squeeze. These developments could decrease the
confidence in the current exchange rate arrangements
and possibly result in a return of higher inflation
and interest rates. Second, there are political risks
associated with parliamentary elections scheduled for
October 2000, soon after the start of the operation.
The success of the SAL will depend on sustained
government commitment to, and ownership of, the
proposed program. Specific risk factors include the
Government's commitment to fiscal austerity and
difficult reforms during the run-up to the election,
and a possible weaker commitment of a future
Government to specific elements of the agreed program.
Macroeconomic risks are reduced by the new
precautionary IMF SBA. The Russian crisis and its
relatively smaller impact on more rapidly reforming
countries appears to have destroyed any past illusions
about the ability to avoid hard choices. Risks of a
future governments lower commitment to reforms are
minimized by the past continuity in reforms across
governments, the limited role of political forces
favoring major changes in policy direction, and the
public consensus about the long-term goal of EU
accession. The latter effect is buttressed by the
recent commencement of EU membership negotiations.
Other risk factors include: the unclear fiscal
implications of recent privatization transactions, the
inclusion in the SAL of some issues which in the past
have proved politically difficult (e.g. banking
privatization, extension of rural land ownership to
domestic legal persons, and the acceleration of
retirement age increases), and possible lack of
institutional capacity for implementation of the full
reform program.
17. To reduce these risks, the Bank will continue to
consult regularly with parliamentary sub-committees, a
broader group of civil society, and the donor
community. Significant technical assistance (TA) is
already under implementation. Working closely with
other donors, the Bank will continue to assist in
mobilizing the additional TA necessary for the
Government to adopt and implement the reforms and will
also deepen the ongoing dialogue on structural reform.
Moreover, the SAL disbursements are strictly tied to
the adoption of policy measures. The inter-ministerial
Steering Committee which helped in the preparation of
the SAL is expected to continue its work during the
implementation phase of the Loan and to improve
coordination among the implementing agencies.
Subsequent Bank group operations would seek to sustain
and deepen the reforms initiated under this operation.
Contact Points:
-8-



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Ardo Hansson, ECSPE
The World Bank Office in Warsaw
Emilii Plater 53
00-113 Warsaw, Poland
Telephone: (+48-22) 520-8000
Fax:        (+48-22) 520-8001
Note: This is information on an involving project.
Certain components may not be necessarily included in
the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 14, 2000.
-9-



