Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7387 LT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 108.29 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
June 28, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Ii 3`n.,'ANiA - SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Currencv Equivalents
(Exchange Rate Effective as of May 14, 2000)
Currency Unit = Litas
US$1.00  =LTL4.00
Government Fiscal Year
January I-December 31
Wei2hts and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABL        -  Agricultural Bank of Lithuania      LSB         - Lithuanian Savings Bank
AFMRA    -  Agri-Food Market Regulatory Agency   LSC          - Lithuanian Securities Commission
BOL        -  Bank of Lithuania                   LSE         - Lithuanian Stock Exchange
BOP        -  Balance of Payments                 MN          - Mazeikiu Nafta
CAS        -  Country Assistance Strategy         MOA         - Ministry of Agriculture
CBEM       -  Common Baltic Electricity Market    MOF         - Ministry of Finance
CIS        -  Commonwealth of Independent States   OECD       - Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development
EBRD       -  European Bank for Reconstruction and   PF       - Privatization Fund
Development
ECA        -  Europe and Central Asia (Region)    PSD         - Private sector development
EFF        -  Extended Fund Facility              REER        - Real effective exchange rate
EPC        -  Energy Pricing Commission           RLGF        - Rural Loan Guarantee Fund
ESA        -  European System of Accounts         SAL         - Structural Adjustment Loan
ESW        -  Economic and sector work            SAPARD    - Special Accession Program for
Agriculture and Rural Development
EU         -  European Union                      SBA         - Stand-by Arrangement
FDI        -  Foreign Direct Investment           SDR         - Special Drawing Right
FIAS       -  Foreign Investment Advisory Service    SME      - Small and Medium Enterprises
FSU        -  Former Soviet Union                 SoDra       - Lithuanian Social Insurance Board
GDP        -  Gross Domestic Product              SOE         - State-Owned Enterprise
IAS        -  International Accounting Standards  SPF         - State Property Fund
IBRD       -  International Bank for Reconstruction    SRP    - Savings Restitution Plan
and Development
IMF        -  International Monetary Fund         STI         - State Tax Inspectorate
IOTA       -  Intra-European Organization of Tax  TA          - Technical Assistance
Administration
LG         -  Lithuanian Gas                      UNCTAD    - United Nations Committee for Trade and
Development
LIBOR      -  London Inter-Bank Offered Rate      US$         - United States Dollars
LPC        -  Lithuanian Power Company            WTO         - World Trade Organization
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn
Country Director: Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Director: Pradeep K. Mitra
Team Leader: Ardo H. Hansson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Lithuania
Amount:                      EUR 108.29 mnillion
Terms:                      EUR-denomninated Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL) payable in 11 years with a
bullet principal repayment, at the standard variable interest rate for EUR
FSLs, with automatic rate fixing by period.
Comnmitment Fee:            0.85 percent of undisbursed balances for the first four years, standard
charge of 0.75 percent on undisbursed balances thereafter, beginning 60
days after signing, less any wavier.
Objectives and Description:    The proposed two-tranche loan is a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)
to support the Govemment of Lithuania in the implementation of a
structural reform program with the main objective reducing poverty by
putting the economy on a path of rapid and sustainable growth in a
setting of macro-financial stability. The reform program to be supported
by the proposed operation works to achieve these objectives through
correcting macroeconomic imbalances, and through implementing
specific reforms in the areas of; (i) budget management, (ii) pensions
and social assistance; (iii) private sector development; (iv) the energy
sector; and (v) the agricultural sector.
Benefits:                   The SAL will work to preserve past stabilization gains, which is
especially important given reputational investments into the currency
board system and the poverty impacts of a crisis. Second, it will help
the Government articulate a comprehensive sectoral reform agenda
within a consistent macroeconomic framework, with synergetic reforms
over a range of sectors having a large impact on growth potential.
Third, the Bank's assessment of the country's structural reform efforts
will have a positive signaling value, both for private foreign borrowing
and for eventual EU accession. Finally, the associated financial support
will make the adjustment process more sustainable, particularly as
relates to mitigation of the near-term poverty impact. The alternative
would be higher interest rates and/or more severe transitional recession
as demand is further cut to maintain external sustainability.
Risks:                      The substantial uncertainty around any single macroeconomic scenario
makes alternative scenarios more likely than in "quieter times". The
base scenario assumes a major fiscal and structural policy initiative
backed by long-term foreign financial resources, andlor some
improvement in the external environment.  In their absence, a less
favorable scenario could emerge.  The resulting fall in creditor
confidence would raise real interest rates, placing added pressure on
enterprise financing. Renewed difficulties in servicing public debt
would threaten further increases in budgetary arrears. As a result,
This document has a restricted distribution  and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ii
recovery of growth would be delayed, macro-financial vulnerability and
poverty increased, and Lithuania's integration into the European
economy delayed.
There are political risks associated with the parliamentary elections
scheduled for soon after the start of the operation. The success of the
SAL depends on a sustained commitment to, and ownership of, the
proposed program. The Government's commitment to fiscal austerity
and difficult reforms could be tested in the pre-election period. Second,
the election could lead to a new government (a factor which complicated
implementation of SAL I) which, while unlikely to have a significantly
lower overall commitment to reforms, may have reduced comrnitment to
some specific measures. However, the general continuity of reforms
across past changes in government is further buttressed by the
widespread perception and conmmitment by all political parties to the
view that reforms have to be deepened to speed EU accession. These
risks are being mitigated by the Bank through regular consultation with
a broader group of civil society outside the government.
The SAL would tackle some issues which proved difficult in the past.
There now appears to be greater support for such measures. The impact
of the Russian crisis destroyed the illusion that hard choices need not be
made. In most areas, there is a greater intellectual commitment to
reforms which is both procedural and substantive. Many of the most
sensitive issues in the past are tightly linked to EU accession, which has
become more concrete with the start of negotiations. Finally, there is a
possibility that institutional capacity for implementation could prove
insufficient, including due to delays to needed TA. Much of the needed
TA is in place. Residual risks will be mitigated through more regular
donor coordination meetings, regular supervision, and the continued
functioning of the inter-ministerial Steering Committee.
Schedule of Disbursements:    EUR 54,686,450 immediately after loan effectiveness (expected in July
2000), and EUR 53,603,550 after satisfactory review of Second Tranche
conditions.
Poverty Category:           Not applicable
Rate of Return:             Not applicable
Project ID Number:          LT-PE-068706
Map                        tBRD No. 26177
The task team included Pedro Alba, Ardo H. Hansson, Giedre Tarbuniene, Jos Verbeek (ECSPE); Lars
Jeurling, Peter Modeen, James R. Dick Welch (ECSPF); Gordon W. Johnson (LEGPS); David Lindeman
(HDNSP); Philip Goldman, Vilija Kostelnickiene (ECSHD); Gary Stuggins (ECSEG); Basil G. Kavalsky,
Mantas Nocius (ECC09); Istvan Feher, Natalija Kazlauskiene, Peter G. Kelly, Deborah Mabbett, William
Meyers, Michael Whippman (consultants). The responsible sector manager was Kyle Peters (ECSPE).
The peer reviewers were Swati R. Ghosh (EASPR) and Barbara W. Lee (SECPS).



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
CONTENTS
I. INTRODUCTION ..............................................................................1
II. THE ECONOMY ..............................................................................2
III. THE COUNTRY'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM .                                         ...........................................................................5
The Components of the Program ..............................................................................6
A. Returning to a Sustainable Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework ......................6
B.  Structural and Institutional Reforms ..............................................................................7
B.1.  Strengthening Budget Management ......................................................................9
B.2. Continuing Reform  of Pensions and Social Assistance .......................................1  1
B.3. Promoting Private Sector Development .............................................................. 15
B.4. Restructuring and Privatizing the Energy  Sector ................................................. 18
B.5. Reforming Agriculture .............................................................................                      21
C. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements                                                       ...  24
IV. THE PROPOSED  LOAN .............................................................................                                     25
A. Rationale and Objectives .............................................................................                        25
B. Links to the Country Assistance Strategy .................................................................... 26
C. Board Conditions and Tranche Triggers ..................................................................... 26
D. Poverty Implications .............................................................................                            26
E. Coordination with the DMF  and Donors ....................................................................... 27
F. Implementation, Monitoring and  Supervision ............................................................. 27
G. Financial Arrangements ............................................................................. 27
H. Benefits and Risks .............................................................................                              28
V. RECOMMENDATION .............................................................................                                          29
Tables:
TABLE  1: FISCAL ADJUSTMENT  1999-2000 (%   OF GDP) ...........................................................6
TABLE 2: LITHUANIA'S REFORM PROGRAM SUPPORTED BY THE SAL ......................................8
TABLE 3: COMPOSITION OF REAL GDP GROWTH: 1999-2002 (% ANNUAL GROWTH RATE) ... 24
Text Boxes:
Box  1: THE CURRENCY  BOARD  IN LITHUANIA ..........................................................................2
Box 2:  THE FIRST SAL ................................................................................3
Box  3: EARLY  PENSION  REFORMS IN LITHUANIA .................................................................... 12
Box  4: AGRICULTURE UNDER  SAL  I ...............................................................................                          21
Figures:
FIGURE 1: SELECTED MACROECONOMIC VARIABLES IN 1998-1999                                                                .4



Annexes:
ANNEX 1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNEX 2: STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
ANNEX 3: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
ANNEX 4: EXPORT PERFORMANCE AND ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING
ANNEX 5: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
ANNEX 6: KEY POLICIES AND REFORMS
ANNEX 7. POLICY ACTION MATRIX
ANNEX 8: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
MAP: IBRD No. 26177



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation Dn a proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) to the Republic of Lithuania in the amount of EUR
108.29 million to support the Government's structural reform program. The loan would be a
Fixed Spread Loan denominated in Euros, with a bullet repayment in 11 years. It would be
disbursed in two tranches: EUR 54,686,450 immediately after loan effectiveness, and EUR
53,603,550 upon satisfaction of second tranche release conditions (expected about June 2001).
This Report should be read in conjunction with, and is consistent with, the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) of the World Bank Group for the Republic of Lithuania, (Report No. 19135 -LT),
dated April 19, 1999, and discussed by the Executive Directors on May 11, 1999.
I. INTRODUCTION
2.    Lithuania's nation building achievements since re-independence in 1991 are impressive.
While perhaps helped by the institutional memory from the period between the World Wars, most
political and economic institutions and social capital had to be built from scratch. Democracy is
now well established, and Lithuania has successfully completed several elections and changes of
govemment. The shift to a market economy has also brought major successes. While the
transition has not been without difficulties and is not complete, Lithuania is now a firm candidate
to join the European Union.
3.    However, the Russian crisis affected Lithuania more severely than many other Central
and Eastern European countries. Because so much of its exports were still directed to the CIS
market, exports fell by nearly 20 percent in value in 1999. The Government was slow to detect
the depth and duration of the crisis and the fiscal deficit rose sharply during the year, partly
reflecting subsidies to those sectors, in particular agriculture, which were most affected by
slumping exports.
4.    These events put a brake on what had been a successful, if uneven, transition program,
during the period 1995-1998. The Bank had supported the structural changes in Lithuania during
this period with a SAL and investment loans in support of agriculture, energy, municipal
development and the social assistance program. By 1998 however, it was evident that the
Government was becoming increasingly complacent and not following up on the SAL with the
vigor that had been expected. The Bank's major report of that year - Lithuania: An Opportunity
for Economic Success - pointed out that much lower growth levels were likely in the future
without an acceleration of structural reform.
5.    The CAS noted these concerns and that Lithuania was now much more vulnerable to the
lingering impact of the Russian crisis. It indicated that the Bank would be willing to support a
renewed push towards reform through a second SAL which was likely to be needed to deal with a
debt servicing hump in 2000. It has taken some time for the consensus to evolve on the need for
change, but in late-1999, the Bank was asked to begin preparation of a SAL which would assist
the new Government to advance the structural reform agenda in areas which were seen to be
critical for restoring fiscal sustainability and resuming growth: budget management; pension
reform; private sector development; agricultural policies; and energy sector restructuring.



2
II. THE ECONOMY
6.      Soon after regaining independence, Lithuania faced a severe transitional recession and
hyperinflation. Supported by the Bank and IMF, it responded with concerted fiscal stabilization,
followed by the April 1994 introduction of a currency board (see Box 1). In parallel, Lithuania
implemented  first generation  economic  reforms,  including  extensive  liberalization  and
privatization. By 1995, growth had been restored under lower but still double-digit inflation.
However, gaps in structural policies and institution left growth weak and macroeconomic stability
fragile. These fragilities emerged as banking crisis in late-1995, which nipped a budding
recovery and brought out hidden quasi-fiscal problems. Supported by the first SAL (see Box 2)
and an IME EFF, Lithuania responded with stabilization and an acceleration of reforms. This
brought important structural changes in the economy, including a significant strengthening of
banking regulation and supervision, a reduction in the problem of energy arrears, a stronger
energy regulatory framework, reforms in agricultural policy, and good progress in privatization.
Box 1: The Currency Board in Lithuania
The currency board has had lasting implications for the conduct of economic policy in Lithuania. The board is based
on a law that fixed the nominal exchange rate at 4 litas to the dollar, and limited the ability to conduct independent
monetary policy. The Central Bank can increase base money only if backed by foreign exchange reserves. The
exchange rate anchor has been a major factor in the successful stabilization effort, precluding monetary financing of
the public sector deficit and providing confidence to the market of the Government's commitment to stabilization.
However, it has also limited the ability of the authorities to influence a key relative price, the real exchange rate,
during the transition period, when the economy by definition was not in equilibrium. Indeed, the real exchange rate
appreciated by 38 percent between 1994 and end June, 1998, before the beginning of the Russian crisis. Despite this
appreciation and the large current account deficit (see below in the main text), most analysts believe that the
Lithuanian economy remained competitive at that time, in part because the initial real rate was undervalued (1).
Overall, the currency board arrangement in Lithuania is popular amnong the authorities, as well as the public at large,
being credited for the successful stabilization and disciplining effect on public finance. Despite the success of the
currency board, the authorities recognise the need to examnine the appropriateness of the link to the US$ and the
danger that large macroeconomnic imbalances imply for such an exchange rate mechanism.
(1) See IMP. Background Papersfor the 1999 Article 4 Consultations. Mimeo, Washington D.C., 1999.
7.      Recent economic developments. As a result, growth increased to 4.7 percent in 1996,
and further to 7.3 percent in 1997 and 9.2 percent in the first half of 1998. Private investment
increased as a share in GDP, export growth was healthy, the overall fiscal balance improved to
about -2 percent of GDP by 1997, and quasi-fiscal deficits were brought under greater control.
However, these positive outcomes, together with improved access to global capital markets, in
turn contributed to a sense of complacency. This was evident in the fiscal sphere, most strikingly
in the costly Savings Restitution Plan (SRP),' and in continued hidden support for certain sectors
(especially energy), which maintained pressure on the fiscal accounts and national savings. In
1998, the fiscal deficit increased again to about 6 percent of GDP (Figure 1). Complacency was
also evident in the failure to complete crucial elements of the agenda commenced under SAL I
(e.g., banking privatization, energy pricing, pension reform). In some cases, problems which
needed comprehensive solutions were addressed through measures that only provide short-term
relief, usually through budgetary support (e.g., loan guarantees, tax incentives, direct subsidies,
etc.). Finally, the slowdown in reform progress is also evident in the transition indicators of the
In June 1997, the Seimas passed a law establishing the SRP, which aims to restore the real value of residents'
household deposits held at state-owned banks in February 1991, up to a per capita limit of LTL 6000 (US$ 1500). The
estimated cost of the SRP is LTL 3.5 billion, or around 8 percent of 1998 GDP. Its main funding source is privatization
revenues, of which at least two-thirds must be transferred to this program. The law divides deposit restitution into four
phases, the first two of which were completed before suspension of the program (see below).



3
Bank and EBRD, which show Lithuania's above average reform effort during the early transition
period being reduced during the latter 1990s.
8.      The delays in reforms harmed restructuring and competitiveness. During the late 1990s,
Lithuania was among the least successful EU candidate countries in penetrating EU markets and
diversifying away from its traditional markets in the CIS.2 Delayed restructuring is also evident
in the continued high share of agriculture in GDP. In 1997, this share in Lithuania was 12
percent, after Bulgaria and Romania, the highest among the candidate countries. While cause and
effect are difficult to establish, Lithuanian producers seem to be less able to compete in OECD
countries. In the event of a loss of traditional markets, Lithuania would be less able to reorient
trade and thus be open to a more severe contraction in output.
Box 2: The First SAL
In late-1995, serious banking problems emerged to threaten macroeconomnic balance. Of the 27 banks in operation
at end-1994, only ten remained by April 1998; the closed banks included the largest commercial bank in 1994 and
represented some one-quarter of total system funds. The crisis had several causes. First, declining inflation rates
and a fixed exchange rate led to a sharp decline in the profitability of the banking industry. Second, inadequate
enforcement of regulations. undercapitalization and poor bank govemance led to moral hazard and excessive risk
taking. Finally, major sectoral imbalances, especially in energy, agriculture and social security, in turn spilled over
to the rest of the economy, including pressure on fiscal accounts and a wider problem of non-payment.
In response, the Government requested the first Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL 1). which supported reforms in
four key areas. The intention was: (1) to solve the banking system's operational and under-capitalization problems;
and (2) to eliminate the most serious sectoral imbalances in energy, agriculture, and social insurance. The SAL in
the amount of US$ 80 million was approved by the Board on October 15, 1996, and made effective October 18,
1996. The first tranche in the amount of US$ 40 million was disbursed upon effectiveness, and the second tranche
of equal size was disbursed by June 30, 1998, compared with the original date of March 31, 1997. While the SAL
was broadly successful, some areas of the program, as described in the main text below, were not fully completed.
In addition, the SAL was always considered to be a partial program to be buttressed by further support, including
potentially through a second SAL. Indeed, the World Bank prepared an economic report comprised of a set of
notes on kev nolicv issues whose imolementation could he sunrnorted hv ouick dishursine assistance from the Bank.
9.      These delays also increased vulnerability through a chronically high current account
deficit since 1995 (Figure 1). The implied large savings-investment gap is the result of low
national savings rate rather than high investment rates. Investment as a share of GDP fluctuated
between 25-27 percent during the period 1995-98, which is within the average range for middle
income economies. However, the level of investment is high relative to achieved rates of
economic growth, implying low investment efficiency and growth potential. National savings
fluctuated around 12-14 percent of GDP during 1994-98. This is low relative to other middle-
income countries, in particular the more advanced among the Central European econornies.
While the small level of public savings has been one underlying cause, private savings are also
low.3
10.    Lithuania's vulnerability was revealed in mid-1998, when the Russian crisis triggered a
combination of deflation, collapsing foreign trade, growing external balances and rising public
debt. The loss of external competitiveness from ruble depreciation was later compounded by the
strength of the litas (fixed to the US dollar) vs. the Euro (Figure 1). As a result, real GDP growth
fell from 5.1 percent in 1998 to -4.1 percent in 1999 (Figure 3). Unemployment rose from 5.4
2In 1998, the share of exports to the EU in total exports was only 38 percent as compared to 51-57 percent in Bulgaria,
Estonia, Latvia, and Slovakia, and greater than 60 percent for the other candidates.
In the available statistics, the whole enterprise sector, including SOEs, is classified as 'private', meaning that 'public'
refers to the strict budgetary sector (excluding SOEs).



4
percent in July 1998 to 10 percent at end-1999. Driven by a 59 percent drop in exports to the
CIS, total exports fell by 18.3 percent. The corresponding fall in total imports was 14 percent.
11.    Vulnerability was initially compounded by an excessively expansionary fiscal policy,
which culminated in the near drying up of the T-bill market, and resulting severe strains on
government liquidity, in October 1999. This partly reflected automatic stabilizers such as
declines in income-sensitive revenues.  It also reflected the Government's initial failure to
recognize the severity of the crisis, including attempts to actively counter its impact, continuation
with the SRP, as well the emergence of accumulated quasi-fiscal imbalances, i.e., earlier policy
mistakes. The difficult post-Russian crisis situation also led to some slippage in reforms under
SAL I, e.g., a rebound of agricultural subsidies. Fiscal expansion also fueled the current account
deficit which rose to 12.1 percent of GDP in 1999:Hl.4
Figure 1: Selected Macroeconomic Variables in 1998-1999
GDP developments                         Monthly exports and imports changes yly in
14%
Source: Department of Statistics                 Source: Department of Statistics
REER (1998 Jan=1.00)                            The twin deficits in Lithuania1
2-
7s             4 q ra
s 8 w 8 C o2, 9 8 $ S w S $ -10>
Source: Bank of Lithuania, Currency market,       Source: Bank of Lithuania, Balance of Payments,
April 2000                                       and tMF, Consolidated General Government
Operations
12.    By mid-1999, the Government began to recognize the need for concerted action to reduce
fiscal imbalances as the first step in strengthening macro stability. This led to some reduction of
the budget deficit in 1999:Q3, and to requests for a precautionary SBA and a SAL. Subsequent
actions included a welcome suspension for two years of the SRP, and final agreement on the
The current account balance in Figure 1 was adjusted by adding the errors and omissions of the BOP which in
Lithuania is believed to mainly composed of non-reported exports.



5
Mazeikiu Nafta (MN) transaction.5 While fiscal costs related to the MN deal were significant in
1999:Q4, the closure on the transaction may have reduced medium-term uncertainty. As a result,
recession continued but the current account balance started showing signs of improvement.
13.    Current evidence of renewed growth is mixed.  The recent fiscal measures and the
agreement with the IMF led to increased investor confidence, the restoration of balance to the T-
bill market and a relatively successful large Eurobond issue. Export performance improved
significantly in the first quarter of 2000 (Figure 1), as have indicators of aggregate supply such as
industrial sales. However, several worrisome signs remain, including; little rebound in budgetary
revenues, and the added fiscal burden of eliminating accumulated arrears. Notwithstanding the
recent improvements in export performance, the evidence that Lithuanian exporters are
successfully reorienting sales from CIS to Western markets is still mixed (see Annex 4).
III. THE COUNTRY'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
14.    Recent economic developments have convinced the Government that both structural and
cyclical factors lie behind the three key economic challenges facing Lithuania.
*  Restoring growth. While the Russian crisis was the main trigger of the recent recession,
growth has also been constrained by low investment efficiency. This reflects legal and
institutional rigidities in firm exit and entry, inappropriate government assistance that led to
weak budget constraints and moral hazard in the enterprise sector, inefficient on-lending and
guarantees to public enterprises, cuts in needed public investment, and the still incomplete
privatization program. Raising efficiency would permit Lithuania to improve its growth
performance while reducing recourse to foreign savings, a more sustainable outcome.
*   Cutting the fiscal deficit. Along with its cyclical causes, the pressures on the 1999 fiscal
accounts (both cash outcomes and new arrears) also reflect structural and policy factors.
Among these are the financial and managerial weaknesses in public enterprises exacerbated
by slow adjustment of administered prices, increasing financial pressures on the pay as you
go pension system, and weaknesses in budget management (including inflexible revenue
forecasts, weak control over new commitments, and contingent and implicit liabilities). The
use of privatization revenues has also been controversial.
*  Limiting the current account deficit. As noted above, this chronic deficit reflects in part
the insufficient public savings, but also a high private savings/investment gap.  Low
investment efficiency contributes indirectly by requiring more investment for the same output
growth.  On the savings side, structural weaknesses reduce corporate profitability and
savings. The impediments to enterprise restructuring and public sector support to ailing firms
has harmed competitiveness and export performance.
15.    The Lithuanian authorities understand the urgency of meeting these challenges and have
taken preemptive actions to avoid a broader economic disruption. The Government has followed
This large combined oil refinery/pipeline/shipping terminal was partially privatized in October 1999, when a US
company acquired 1/3 of its equity. This privatization deal, conducted through exclusive negotiations with the
investor, proved extremely controversial. It eventually led to the resignation of the prime minister and the ministers of
finance and economy, precipitating a govemment crisis. Their opposition to the agreement was primarily grounded in
concems about its immediate and long-term fiscal implications, as it involved a significant takeover of existing
commercial liabilities, the granting of new state loans and guarantees, as well as numerous conditions with potentially
large and open-ended fiscal commitments.



6
its initial stabilization measures with development of a more complete adjustment program to
simultaneously address immediate budgetary pressures, remove underlying sectoral imbalances,
and complete key supporting reforms. The program is directed at; restoring growth; reducing the
vulnerability growing out of high and variable twin deficits; and ensuring smoother integration
into the EU Single Market. It is also directed a immediate and longer-term poverty reduction
through several channels described more fully in Section IV.D below.
16.    The program contains essential short-term elements consistent with a currency board, in
particular a significant reduction in the fiscal deficit, which are being supported by an IMF
precautionary SBA (presented to the IMF Board on March 8, 2000) (see Sections III.A. and
[V.E). However, fiscal contraction alone would deepen the near-term recession and poverty, and
provide little impetus for a medium-run return to growth. For this reason, the program also
addresses key structural and institutional deficiencies. It will both complete reforms begun under
SAL I, including some instances of policy reversals, and incorporate new sectors or institutions.
17.    The Government has requested a SAL to support its medium-term  structural and
institutional reform program. The SAL financing will allow a smoother adjustment as well as
more time and resources to implement the structural program. This program will complement
reforms in areas already being covered by Bank investment operations and ESW (See Section
IV.A). The Government's recent acceleration of reforms in several sectors, most notably energy,
creates conditions for the success of the program. Anticipation of new Bank and Fund programs
may have contributed to the success of a recent Eurobond issue. However, as described below,
the remaining macroeconomic and political risks should not be discounted.
The Components of the Program
A. Returning to a Sustainable Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework
18.    Lithuania faces the challenge of restoring a sustainable macroeconomic framework, a
precondition for successfully implementing the structural reforms needed to achieve rapid broad-
based   increases   in  living
Table 1: Fiscal Adjust,nent 1999-2000 (% of GDP)     standards.   The  Government's
1998   1999    2000   overall reform program has been
Revenue                        34.0    32.9    34.1  designed within a macroeconomic
Direct taxes                 7.0     6.8     6.3  framework  consistent with  its
Payroll tax                 12.9    12.2    13.6  precautionary SBA with the IMF.
Indirect taxes              11.5    11.2    11.4  The SBA appropriately focuses on
Expenditure and net lending    39.4    40.7    37.0  fiscal contraction  as the main
Expenditure                    38.0    38.4    36.9  policy  instrument  to  restore
Current expenditure         34.2    34.4    35.1  polcy     oinstrumentt   resto r
Savings Restitution Plan     1.0     2.2    0.1   creconomi          Inder a
Capital expenditure          2.7     1.8     1.7  currency  board.   Indeed, the
Discrepancy                     0.4     0.8      ...  Government intends to reduce the
Financial balance              -4.3    -6.3    -2.8  consolidated fiscal deficit from
Net lending                     1.5     2.3     0.1  8.6 percent of GDP in 1999 to 2.8
o/w Mazeikiai oil company    0.6     1.9     0.2  percent of GDP  in  2000, an
FISCAL BALANCE                 -5.8    -8.6    -2.8  adjustment of 5.8 percent of GDP.
I Three     measures      already
implemented by the authorities account for the majority of this large adjustment (Table 1). First,
on the revenue side, the 3 percentage point hike in the social security payroll tax is expected to
increase revenues by some 1.4 percent of GDP. The other two measures focus on the control of



7
extra-budgetary expenditures: (1) the recent postponement of the SRP (saving 2 percent of
GDP),6 and (2) cutting projected net lending from 2.2 percent in 1999 to 0.1 percent in 2000 and
zero afterwards. In contrast, expenditures in the core budget are broadly protected. In addition,
the package envisions selective structural reforms to underpin the budget adjustment, including
improvements in Treasury operations, formation of a Fiscal Reserve Fund, increases in electricity
tariffs, and publication of the general terms of the MN privatization deal. It also includes an
unwinding by November 2000 of tariff increases and other direct interventions which were
imposed to protect domestic producers in the wake of the Russian crisis.
B. Structural and Institutional Reforns
19.    The structural and institutional reform program to be supported by the proposed SAL
comprises five areas: three fields with a heavy structural and institutional component: budget
management, pensions, and private sector development; and, two sectors, energy and agriculture,
which have been among the largest sources of budgetary and quasi-fiscal pressures (Table 2).
The SAL will focus on discrete policy reforms and on measures that are critical but relatively self
contained steps of a longer process of institutional development. In more detail, the five areas
are:
* Strengthening budget management is critical to achieving a sustained increase public savings
while enhancing investment efficiency. The Government plans to reform govemment
accounting, change incentives for supporting commercial activities, strengthen control and
govemance of extra-budgetary areas, and improve management of the core budget.
- Pension reform is needed to increase national savings. In the near-term, concrete adjustments
to the existing state pension system are needed to reduce its deficits, and to improve its
incentives and implementation. In the longer term, a more fundamental pension reform can
increase the depth and liquidity of domestic capital markets and enhance both the magnitude
and efficiency of investment. The reforms include measures to strengthen processes directed
at seeking consensus on and designing the longer-term redesign of the pension system.
- Private sector development is required to improve efficiency and enhance financial
sustainability. This program is wide ranging, but will focus on discrete measures to complete
key privatizations and reform  the bankruptcy code and tax administration.  Measures to
eliminate specific bottlenecks and distortions which hamper business development are also
included. Finally, the program works to strengthen corporate governance, including by
improving auditing and accounting standards and practices.
* The energy and agriculture components include three types of reforms. First, measures are
aimed at increasing public savings by removing sectoral sources of fiscal pressure, including
through changes in administered prices and reductions in subsidies. Second, measures are
included to remove specific sectoral bottlenecks, e.g., the working of land markets and
weaknesses in govemance of public utilities. Third, reforms to redefine the role of the state
in these sectors along the lines required by the European Union will ensure the sustainability
of the rise in public savings and increase efficiency. Particularly important will be the
restructuring and privatization of key energy sector enterprises.
6 The Government has agreed to freeze the SRP for the duration of the precautionary SBA. Bank staff have strongly
urged the authorities to consider its full cancellation, or at a minimum to postpone even further, with no additional
payments until a clear econormic recovery is in progress and fiscal balance has been fully restored.



8
Together with the macroeconomic framework, these reforms are interrelated and mutually
reinforcing, addressing short and longer-tem causes of fiscal imbalances as well as the structural
reforms needed to increase productivity, and make Lithuania less vulnerable to extemal shocks
and increasingly integrated with the EU.
Table 2: Lithuania's Reform Program Supported By The SAL
Objectives              Reform Areas                               Priorities
Retuming to a          Fiscal and Monetary Policy   Restoring growth, correcting the macroeconomic
Sustainable Medium-                                 imbalances which emerged after the Russian crisis.
Term Macroeconomic
Framework
Strengthening Budget    Govemment Accounting        Enhancing comprehensiveness of accounts and balance
Management                                          sheets.
Budgetary support for       Reducing incentives to provide such support.
commercial activities
Govemance of extra-         Clarifying financial responsibilities and constraints.
budgetary areas
The core budget process     Moving to program budgeting, including through limiting
reversion to cash rationing.
Continuing Reform of    Reform within the existing  Strengthening medium-term financial balance
Pensions and Social    pension system               Improving incentive effects.
Assistance
Deeper pension reform       Developing a realistic timetable for preparing and
implementing reform.
Reform of social assistance  Mitigation of negative near-term impacts of some SAL
measures.
Promoting Private      Completing privatization     Ensuring adherence to best practices
Sector Development                                  Privatizing the Savings Bank.
Tax administration          Moving to a voluntary compliance strategy.
Corporate govemance         New auditing and accounting laws.
Enterprise exit mechanisms  Revised bankruptcy law and new restructuring law.
Business environment        Removing bottlenecks in land markets and sale of goods.
Restructuring and      Market models                 Choosing pro-competitive models for power and gas.
Privatizing the Energy
Sector                 Govemance, restructuring and  Unbundling of power company
privatization               Privatization of power distribution and natural gas.
Legal and regulatory        New laws for electricity, gas and district heating
environment                 Strengthening independence of regulator.
Financial stability         Reform of pricing rules for power and gas.
Reforming Agriculture    Fiscal sustainability      Policy reform to reduce open-endedness of support
mechanisms, level of subsidies.
The policy environment      Implementation of EU-consistent policy framework.
Barriers to higher          Removing barriers to functioning of land markets.
competitiveness



9
B.I. Strengthening Budget Management
20.   Background. During most of the 1990s, Lithuania experienced fiscal pressures which
were chronic yet small enough to be managed by additional borrowing and some real erosion of
government spending. Following the Russian crisis, more serious problems emerged. New
commitments were not controlled, borrowing increased sharply, and cash rationing and arrears
emerged as major issues. As a result, government cash assets were nearly exhausted and there was
a loss of market confidence.
21.   Different parts of the budget were differentially affected. While the core budget deficit
increased somewhat, most pressure there was handled through rationing cash and underfulfilling
plans. The biggest problems arose off budget. Entities administering government programs, e.g.,
in pensions and agriculture, failed to control their commitments. The trading difficulties of
commercial entities resulted in government guarantees being called or new guarantees being
granted. Poor government financial management also led privatization to have a destabilizing
macroeconomic impact. The allocation of large privatization revenues to a loosely governed
extra-budgetary fund allowed these to be spent relatively freely, and with inadequate assessment
of opportunity costs. In particular, the government used these revenues to fund the Savings
Restitution Plan, while resources for core services were limited.
22.   The Government's inadequate fiscal response to economic shocks and inappropriate
handling of contingent liabilities had two main negative consequences. First, ad hoc budget cuts
and cash rationing harmed the efficiency and targeting of government programs by imposing an
alternative set of expenditure priorities to those determined in the budget. Capital projects and
investment support programs (e.g., in agriculture) suffered particularly large and abrupt cuts. At the
same time, the growth of implicit enterprise subsidies supported incomes and employment in a
costly way. Second, responses to current constraints are eroding the longer-term effectiveness of
budget management. For example, institutions have put forward proposals for mutual offsetting
of arrears which would further marginalize the budget process. These problems point to several
deeper weaknesses in budget management.
23.   The SAL will support medium-term reforms to public finances (broadly defined) and the
core budget process. These reforms not only address urgent macroeconomic problems, but will
also improve the efficiency of public spending, thereby improving future growth prospects. The
program has been designed for consistency with EU conventions, and would promote the
harmonization of Lithuania's public financial management with EU standards. It complements
the reform program under the IMF SBA, which focuses on the Treasury, capital budgeting and
establishment of a Fiscal Reserve Fund for privatization proceeds.
24.   Enhancing fiscal transparency. The unexpected scale of recent fiscal commitments
partly reflects opaqueness in government accounts and debt management. The government's
financial statements are incomplete in their coverage of the public sector and of the financial asset
and liability positions of reporting entities. Reporting on guarantees covers only the totals
outstanding without information on provisions needed beyond the current year. This opaqueness
creates an expansionary bias in fiscal policy, as the actual deficit tends to be larger than suggested
by the core budget alone. Similarly, borrowing capacity is overestimated if debts incurred by
public entities outside the State Debt Office, and demands arising from the calling of guarantees,
are not planned for.
25.   Reforn objectives and SAL measures. The program aims to improve the government's
awareness of its fiscal position through two sets of reforms. First, it supports the development of



10
comprehensive financial statements providing aggregate information on the revenues and
expenditures, and financial assets and liabilities, of all public entities, using models of good
accounting practice such as the European System of Accounts (ESA). The ESA reporting
formats will be supplemented by statements on contingent positions. A working group to develop
these accounts has been formed. It will first develop a plan and concrete timeline for the
inclusion of such statements in the documentation for budget planning, and will make concrete
progress in its implementation during the program.  Second, the program  supports the
enhancement of Lithuania's debt management capacity. The Ministry of Finance has established
an action plan for mobilizing the so far unoperational UNCTAD debt management system. The
implementation of this plan will begin with data entry and training in system use, followed by
more advanced risk management techniques, particularly directed at extra-budgetary and
contingent areas.
26.    Changing incentives for exposure to financial risks arising from  commercial
activities. Part of the pressure on the Government to onlend to/take over debts of commercial
entities reflected inappropriate past sectoral policies. However, an important part also grew out
of existing incentives. Heavy reliance on cash budgeting has led to over-use of guarantees
because of their postponed cash impact. While a global limit for guarantees and on-lending is
established by Seimas as part of the budget process, allocations within it are made inefficiently.
Sector ministries have little incentive to refrain from sponsoring requests for guarantees. The
practice of guaranteeing the full amount of the loan plus interest also means that the banks have
no reason to examine the quality of a guaranteed loan closely.
27.    Reform objectives and SAL measures. The reform program aims to change the incentives
for applying for and granting such support. This will reduce fiscal pressures and help avoid those
liabilities most inimical to efficiency gains and poverty reduction. First, as onlending and
guarantees can be distortive of competition, their volume and composition can be regulated by
application of state aids and competition policy framework being adopted in the course of EU
integration. The Seimas has approved the Law on State Aid Monitoring, which ensures that all
proposals for guarantees to commercial activities coming before the State Loan Commission will
be accompanied by a report from the Competition Council. Second, the program will work to
limit guarantees, change incentives for requesting these (though greater use of partial guarantees),
and improve the classification and provisioning of guaranteed loans. Public projects of national
priority financed by international financial institutions will not be subject to such limits.
28.    Clarifying the financial responsibilities and constraints of non-commercial extra-
budgetary public entities. Fiscal pressures from non-commercial extra-budgetary areas grew
out of inadequate reporting and control structures. While budget units are closely monitored by
the Ministry of Finance, public institutions have looser monitoring arrangements. Some have
inappropriately high levels of financial autonomy, particularly relating to their ability to incur
debt, hold separate accounts, make unbacked commitments, and provide guarantees. While some
extrabudgetary accounts have been moved into the core budget, the continued use of cash
rationing provides a strong incentive to create off-budget entities. Furthermore, some entities will
remain outside the budget appropriation and Treasury structure, notably the social security and
health insurance fund and municipalities. These entities need improved governance structures
which define and enforce their financial responsibilities and constraints, including their
obligations to balance their budgets and control commitments.
29.   Reform objectives and SAL measures. The program aims to limit quasi-fiscal activity and
establish sustainable devolved structures for public entities. Its centerpiece is the Law on Budget
Structure recently submitted to Seimas, which integrates all but four extra-budgetary funds into



11
the budget, ends borrowing by appropriation managers, and ensures that all borrowing by budget
units is undertaken by the Ministry of Finance. The Government will work to ensure that these
policies are fully in place by 2001. The program also includes; improvement of the capacity to
monitor borrowing and other commitments of all public entities; preparation and MOF approval
of a 2001 budget for the social insurance fund (SoDra) which has more clear classification and a
binding borrowing limit set by Seimas; and new guidelines for the 2001 Public Investment
Program which ensure that projects which generate inadequate own revenues are not financed by
guaranteed borrowing.
30.   Improving the planning and management of the core budget. Longer-term problems
here reflect limited Cabinet-level strategic planning and prioritization, inadequate performance
measurement, and few incentives for efficiency in planning.  Indicators of the underlying
resource costs and benefits of different programs are underdeveloped, and are seen as tangential
to the immediate tasks of financial control. Supported by extensive donor assistance, the Ministry
of Finance has taken steps towards defining budget programs and developing a framework to
prioritize programs.  Three-year budgets will allow  longer-range planning.  A  'Sunset
Commission' has been formed to review government programs with a view to ending some of
them and closing units which do not serve essential purposes. However, these reforms are
rendered nugatory by the persistent use of cash rationing, which grows out of over-optimistic
revenue forecasts at the planning stage, followed by a reluctance to cut appropriations when
revenue shortfalls become apparent.
31.   Reform objectives and SAL measures. The program aims to enhance the efficiency of
government spending and tackle the sources of cash rationing. To this end, the Government is
analyzing revenue outturns in 2000 and is actively considering whether a supplementary budget is
required. It has developed sound procedures for an orderly response to shortfalls of revenue
relative to forecasts. In preparing the 2001 budget, it has used two GDP growth forecasts and
based its revenue projections on the more conservative one, while also carefully modelling the
potential impact of tax changes under consideration. Finally, it has tightened procedures for
vetting decisions with budget implications.
32.   Second, the program will support continuation of the introduction of program budgeting
elements to ensure that a program's resource costs are measured and aggregated, and that outputs
are defined and valued. This would contribute greatly to poverty reduction, as poverty programs
could be protected against ad hoc cuts. The first step is implementing the three-year budget
planning process to monitor and control commitments. In the 2001 budget, the Government will
initiate a reduction in the number of separate budget line items, a consolidation of expenditure
allocations under program headings, and a reduction in the number of appropriation managers. It
will also require ministries to propose and introduce performance measures for those programs
where such measures can most readily be developed.
B.2. Continuing Reform of Pensions and Social Assistance
33.   Background.  Two sets of factors motivate the Lithuanian Government's renewed
emphasis on completing pension reform (see Box 3 for early progress, including under SAL I).
The first is the budgetary pressures which emerged in 1999. Through 1998, the extra-budgetary
social insurance agency, SoDra, had muddled through on a cash-flow basis by maintaining a
small rolling commercial debt, transfers from the labor market program to pensions, and some
arrears to health care providers. The Russian crisis, however, led to a 10 percent drop in revenues
relative to projections in 1999, which was only partially offset by the non-indexing of benefits.



12
During 1999, the debt of SoDra grew by I percent of GDP. Pension payments were delayed
relative to planned dates within the month, imposing burdens on the elderly during a period of
recession. Resolving these issues requires reform of the policy determinants and administration
of revenues and benefits.
34.    Second, the Government seeks to improve the impact of the pension system on economic
growth while retaining adequate guarantees for the poor. The current system includes elements
which reduce incentives to participate in, and contribute to, the pension system. This includes
recent emergency measures such as the increase in the payroll tax. Unclear indexation rules and
the large segments of the population that remain outside the system could have negative poverty
impacts. Reforming the current system would allow the same fiscal and redistributive effects to
be achieved more efficiently. In addition, a more fundamental reform of the pension system
could increase acceptance among younger workers to participate in the mandatory pension
system, and induce greater economic growth by increasing the allocational efficiency in financial
markets and the path of national savings.
Box 3: Early Pension Reforms in Lithuania
The shape of Lithuania's pension system has been a matter of debate since the transition began. Lithuania initially
"flattened" its benefit stracture to protect the elderly and disabled. By mid-1994, it moved back toward a more
differentiated system by adopting a two-tier benefit formula: a flat years-of-service "basic pension" and an
eamings-related "supplementary pension". To its credit, Lithuania in its 1994 law was the first country to eliminate
nearly all special early retirement privileges and to begin moving up the regular retirement age. As first enacted,
the law would have increased retirement ages to 65 for both genders at the rate of 6 months a year. Before its
effective date of January 1, 1995, in reaction to negative public reactions, the Seimas amended the law to slow the
rate of increase to two months a year for men stopping at age 62.5, and to four months a year for women stopping
at age 60, thus making the reformed system less sustainable. The 1994 reforn was predicated on relatively rapid
adoption of a framework law for voluntary pensions to allow firms and individuals to provide for early retirement
and higher benefits than was offered in a the reformed, relatively minimalist pay-as-you-go system.
SAL I attempted to address short-tern sustainability and design flaws in the 1994 law. The key measure was an
acceleration in the rate of increase in retirement age to 6 months a year stopping at a uniform age of 62.5. Lesser
measures addressed indexing rules and incentives for longer work. In addition, the SAL encouraged work on the
voluntary pensions law, but only required that legislation be presented to the Seimas. At the time of the last SAL I
supervision mission (May 1998), except for the retirement age acceleration, the agreed-upon amendments had been
submitted though not acted upon. The retirement age acceleration was submitted pro forma in June 1998. While
work on a framework law for voluntary pensions proceeded, its enactment was not achieved until late 1999.
35.    The Government plans to await the impending evaluation  under a multi-year EU
Consensus program before proposing fundamental reforms of the social assistance system.
However, it recognizes the need to better understand and to mitigate the negative immediate
impacts of some measures in the SAL and SBA-supported program. This includes the potential
effects of higher utilities prices, and the transitional unemployment arising from a move to more
efficient enterprises and farms.
36.    The SAL will support preparation of a plan for more fundamental pension reform. As
this will take time to implement, it also includes certain prudent and necessary reforms of the
existing system. Finally, it includes measures to support a review of the social assistance
mechanisms which most directly mitigate the effects of other measures under the program.
37.    Achieving  balance  and  better  incentives  within  the  current  pension  legal
framework Assuming the economy begins to recover, the recent emergency measures should
ease the immediate financial pressures on the pension system.  However, they exacerbate
incentives to receive compensation in exempt or illegal ways and undermine collective



13
willingness to provide for the contingencies of old age, death and disability. For this reason,
there is a need to analyze their labor market, revenue and distributional effects as first steps
towards a more analytic approach to social insurance policy. These measures, focused on the
expenditure side of the equation, would buttress the fiscal effects of the recent increase in the
contribution rate, and could allow for a future decrease in that rate in the absence of more
fundamental reform.
38.    Second, remaining structural deficiencies in the current system  must be remedied
regardless of the longer-run direction of pension reform. There is a particular need for clearer
indexing rules, both for reasons of social adequacy and financial predictability, and for stronger
incentives to remain in the labor force after reaching retirement age. Furthermore, SoDra suffers
from similar problems as other extra-budgetary entities including: inadequate information about
revenues and expenditures; inability to match commitments with available resources; and
problems with auditing, compliance, collection and governance. SoDra also needs to get a better
handle on its internal business. It has already undertaken a thorough donor-supported accounting
and has drawn lessons from it, including doing a recent tender for a better financial accounting
system. This work would be buttressed by better segregation among sub-accounts. PHARE
financed consultants are also proffering substantial help to SoDra - and potentially, the MOF and
State Tax Inspectorate (STI) - on matters of basic administration.
39.    Reform objectives and SAL measures. The program aims to ensure: both near and long-
term viability of the current pension system; more efficient and less ad hoc methods used to
achieve fiscal balance; and higher levels of revenue collection and compliance. It has three
specific sub-components. First, the Government has commissioned policy reviews of several
crucial issues, including the fiscal and incentive effects of recent increases in contribution rates
and assessable wages, and the current pension programs long-term fiscal balance under various
policy options for achieving this goal.
40.    Second, the program includes new policy reforms. The Government has submitted to
Seimas draft amendments to the current social insurance law which adjust the rate of increase in
retirement ages, treatment of working pensioners, sickness benefit rules and other measures
aimed at achieving short-term fiscal balance. It is adjusting the delayed retirement credit to an
actuarially neutral level, and will approve new indexation rules for both the basic and
supplementary pensions which promote certainty of benefits while protecting fiscal balance. The
Government is committed to ensuring that this full package of measures, along with an increase
in the number of sickness days covered by employers, is in place by June 2001. Finally, the
program focuses on administrative reform. To this end, SoDra and the STI have initiated a
review of contribution collection, auditing and compliance to support increased cooperation and
develop options for eventual merger. This will be followed by development of a time-bound plan
that moves these responsibilities from SoDra to STI without putting existing performance levels
at risk, with the first steps to be in place by no later than March 2001.
41.    Preparing and achieving deeper pension reform   Lithuania's renewed interest in
fundamental pension reform reflects two sets of factors. First, it reflects the growing attraction in
the ECA region of privately-managed funded pensions. In the early 1990s, the dominant pension
reform  paradigm  was to keep the universal pay-as-you-go pension scheme minimal and
redistributional, while leaving lots of space for funded voluntary schemes. As the reform debate
embraced a mandatory "second pillar," Lithuania was reluctant to change its hard fought reform
so drastically. However, the continuing compliance problems with the pay-as-you-go system,
along with a lackluster response to the voluntary pension law, have heightened interest in such a
reform. Second, the Government has recognized that the goal of the 1995 reform law to cover all



14
citizens with a basic level of support in old age is not being achieved. Large segments of the rural
population are not contributing. The safety net aspect of the pension system is being eroded, and
some reform is needed to assure that poverty in old age does not widen.
42.    Reform objectives and SAL measures. The program aims to support the development and
implementation of a sound model of fundamental pension reform by setting a series of realistic
milestones given the level of analysis and preparation required by such a reform.  The
Government has created a working group reporting to the Prime Minister (including officials and
independent researchers) to develop proposals on how Lithuania might best provide a basic level
of support in old age for all citizens and on the role of funded pensions in both the state and
private sector. This group has developed an action plan and realistic timetable for the completion
of an options paper with concrete proposals and enabling legislation addressing these matters. By
June 2001, the Government will submit to Seimas a satisfactory policy package to achieve the
stated aims. By the same date, it will also ensure that policies are in place which put early
retirement and other supplementary benefits in the state sector on a funded basis in the long-term,
and that facilitate the creation of funded pensions in the private sector for the same ends.
43.    Reforms of social assistance.  Some elements of the Government's program have
potentially negative near-term impacts on poorer members of society. Energy prices and taxes
have already been increased, and further increases may be needed. The move to a more efficient
agriculture could accelerate the employment shake-out in farming, straining the capacity of the
social protection system in some regions. In addition, the broader social assistance system needs
to be kept under regular review to ensure its effective performance.
44.    Lithuania has a system which compensates qualifying households for heating, hot and
cold water tariffs, protecting a minimum level of consumption based on square meters per person.
The scheme was initially centrally administered and financed, but this responsibility was
transferred (along with some additional budgetary funds) to the municipalities in 1999. While
several design changes could improve the system, its current gaps are not large enough to require
urgent reforms. As the Government is beginning a major multi-year review of its social
assistance system, more fundamental reforms of this system would best be designed as part of a
wider reform of social assistance. However, the Government needs to enhance its capacity to
monitor and analyze the functioning of this system now, both as an input into the larger review,
and as a guide to any urgently needed improvements. The Government needs to conduct a
similar review of the functioning of the social protection system in high unemployment areas, and
more generally to monitor the targeting of social assistance.
45.    Reform objectives and SAL measures. The program aims to better monitor and mitigate
the impact of some of its other elements. The Government has reformed reporting requirements
of local governments to ensure that information for proper monitoring of the compensation and
social benefit schemes is available. It has also established an annual review of the systems of
compensating heating, hot water and other utility payments for poor members of society to ensure
they remain effective as the structure of the utilities and of energy prices changes. It will also
produce additional assessments of the ability of the social protection system to protect residents
of areas with above average unemployment rates, including in rural areas hit by the transition to
non-farm activity; and of the adequacy of the social assistance system and its targeting
mechanism with respect to family income and consumption.



15
B.3. Promoting Private Sector Development
46.    Background.  While its past record on private sector-led growth is encouraging,
Lithuania must do more to make its growth dynamic and sustainable. Low investment efficiency
in spite of extensive privatization reflects weak enterprise restructuring. The high share of
enterprises privatized to insiders for vouchers has tended to slow restructuring and management
change. This in turn retards the formation of new enterprises, especially small and medium-size
enterprises (SMEs), which are often the product of liquidating or restructuring larger enterprises.
In addition, the predominance of traditional large enterprises often benefiting from direct and
indirect subsidies distorts competition and makes entry of new enterprises more difficult. As
revealed by a recent FLAS study, gaps in the framework for private sector development (PSD)
impact particularly on SMEs, the development of which will be crucial for sustained poverty
reduction, especially in rural areas. Many of the factors which most limit growth potential also
work to fuel the twin deficits, both directly (through lower tax assessments and foregone tax
revenues) and indirectly (by first facilitating the excessive accumulation of enterprise liabilities
and then increasing pressure for their assumption by the government).
47.    The Government's PSD program to be supported by the SAL aims at promoting dynamic
growth, macro-financial stability and poverty reduction through select reforms to complete
privatization in a high quality fashion, speed up enterprise restructuring, and remove barriers to
new enterprise creation. Other aspects of PSD are covered in other sectors, including energy,
agriculture and pensions. The program has six sub-components.
48.    Establishing principles and processes for privatization. Lithuania's recent experience
has demonstrated the importance of completing privatization in an efficient and transparent
manner.  The successful sale of Lithuanian Telecoms provided both a demonstration and
experience to officials in best practices for large-scale privatization. In contrast, the controversial
sale of the Mazeikiai oil complex involved the failure to use such best practices. To avoid a
recurrence of the latter outcomes, the Government has established a set of principles and
processes for sale of the remaining large enterprises. For new privatizations, it has committed to
using open tenders for financial advisors and sales agents, as required, and to use transparent and
open sales procedures and competitive tenders. It is also applying these best practices to three
specific privatizations: the Lithuanian Savings Bank, the Lithuanian Power Company, and
Lithuanian Gas. The latter two are described below under the heading of energy.
49.    Completing banking privatization. SAL I significantly advanced reform of the banking
sector, including; strengthening of supervision; all operating banks in full compliance with Bank
of Lithuania (BOL) regulations; closure of insolvent banks; deposit insurance applying equally to
all banks, and introduction of International Accounting Standards (IAS) for banks. However, one
important item on the agenda-privatization of the large state banks-was initiated but never
completed. This is also an area where Lithuania lags well behind its Baltic neighbors.
50.    Lithuania's banking system  is dominated by three institutions, of which two-the
Agricultural Bank of Lithuania (ABL) and the Lithuanian Savings Bank (LSB)-remain in
majority state ownership. These lethargic banks do not adequately promote growth via savings
mobilization and the financing of sound investments. They operate in different market segments
(esp. servicing the government) than does the large private bank, reducing competition among
banks. The substantial share of LSB's assets in illiquid and low-yield government bonds acquired
during previous restructuring requires a particular focus on the true financial health of the bank.
Furthermore, the banking system has been and remains an actual or potential source of quasi-
fiscal pressures. The large costs of the 1995 banking crisis were almost fully borne by the



16
budget. The combined effect of the Russian crisis and the strong currency could create new bad
debts which eventually fall on the budget. While stronger formal guarantees on the liabilities of
State banks have been eliminated, state ownership may create presumed implicit guarantees.
Expectations of state support can also slow efficiency improvement in banks themselves and
make them less forceful in pressing clients for loan repayment. Finally, while less pronounced
than in the past, direct Government influence on state banks has not been entirely eliminated.
Doing so is crucial now, when tight budgets could tempt the Government to search for other
options to finance public policy.
51.    Reform objectives and SAL measures. The Government is addressing this crucial issue
with renewed vigor, and is committed to move the ABL and LSB out of State ownership and
control. The privatization of the ABL by the State Property Fund (SPF) is far advanced. The
program aims to complete the privatization of the LSB, which is being managed jointly by the
SPF and MOF. The Government is committed to employ best practice in this sale to a strategic
buyer, including using an open, international bidding process with an international investment
bank engaged throughout the process. EU funds are being used to hire consultants to conduct due
diligence, and an investment bank to advise on its privatization and restructuring. As the process
moves forward, the Government will sequentially submit to the Bank; the investment bank's
privatization plan (including restructuring options), the pre-qualification criteria for bidders, the
criteria for the selection of a winning bid and a report on the selection of the winning bid.
52.    Improving tax administration.  In spite of past reform, this remains weak and
inefficient, contributing to fiscal unsustainability through erosion of the government's revenue
base. Just as important are the links to growth potential. As the tax authorities are senior
creditors in bankruptcy proceedings, their ineffectiveness postpones bankruptcy and liquidation,
contributing to slow enterprise restructuring and the accumulation of financial imbalances. There
is also a perceived lack of fair treatment of all taxpayers, with past "ruthless campaigns" often
directed against SMEs. Such perceptions encourage corruption and tax evasion. By increasing
uncertainty, they also discourage business development. Remedying these problems calls for a
fundamental shift to a voluntary compliance strategy, followed by concerted efforts to strengthen
institutions and procedures.
53.    Reform objectives and SAL measures. The SAL program aims to ensure a fairer tax
system with improved tax collection,7 and to bring Lithuanian tax administration in line with
requirements of the EU and the standards of the Intra-European Organization of Tax
Administration (IOTA). The Ministry of Finance has decided to adopt a comprehensive
voluntary compliance approach by approving the Strategic Plan of the State Tax Inspectorate
(STI) for 2000-2001, and to implement the tax administration improvement program initiated by
the STI. It is committed to; including in the 2001 budget sufficient resources for making clear
progress in implementation of these plans and programs; and to preparing and approving
amendments to relevant legislation and decrees. Finally, other reforms under the SAL would
promote greater cooperation with other tax collection agencies and provide the STI with better
tools and authority to pursue debt collection from delinquent enterprises.
54.    Strengthening corporate governance. Lithuania's corporate governance framework and
norms remain weak in spite of past reforms to accounting rules (especially introduction of IAS
7This will complement specific tax policy reforms under the IMF SBA. These reforms remove exemptions and unify
some key rates within individual taxes, which are either particularly distortive or with negative poverty implications.
These reforms will promote growth, as well as assist tax administration through reducing the complexity and ambiguity
of the tax code.



17
for banks and some listed companies), to the legal and regulatory framework for the stock
exchange, and to the Civil Code. (Part relates to control of enterprises by management insiders,
which can be addressed through better application of bankruptcy procedures - see below.) Poor
corporate governance provides incentives for inefficiency and even corporate looting, as well as
limiting the ability of enterprises to raise financing. Weaknesses in accounting and auditing have
contributed to macroeconomic vulnerability by making it easier to hide problems in firm balance
sheets.
55.   Reform objectives and SAL measures, The program aims to remove key bottlenecks to
better corporate governance in the areas of accounting, auditing and the rules and regulations of
the Lithuanian Securities Commnission (LSC). The Government has submitted to Seimas
amendments to the Law on Companies requiring audit of all joint stock companies, with the
exception of small, private companies, by auditors qualified in accordance with the new Law on
Audit. It will also submit a new draft accounting law, to be reviewed by the Bank, based on LAS
and EU directives. Its program to strengthen securities markets begins with supporting the LSC
to prepare proposals to ensure the independence of the LSC, and to improve the preconditions for
effective supervision of the Lithuanian Stock Exchange (LSE) by the LSC, the transparency and
discipline of the LSE, and shareholder rights. The Government is committed to approve and
submit to Seimas proposals to amendments to legislation, and to approve amendments to decrees
and decisions in relation to such proposals.
56.   Increasing  the  effectiveness  of enterprise  bankruptcy  and  restructuring
mechanisms. These remain weak in spite of several amendments to their legal basis. Gaps in the
legal framework are compounded by limits to implementation capacity, particularly in the judicial
system. The ineffectiveness of existing mechanisms has made the Government less willing to use
them, and/or not credible in threatening to do so, especially against larger enterprises. As a result,
weak enterprises try to pressure the Government for assistance, rather than being faced with
restructuring. The resulting softness of budget constraints has increased quasi-fiscal deficits, as
well as delaying restructuring and the release of resources to firms with greater potential. The
existence of numerous financially fragile companies can lead to economy-wide vulnerability.
57.   Reforn objectives and SAL measures.  The program aims to accelerate bankruptcy
procedures for companies with little chance of survival, and to create new court-supervised
mechanisms for restructuring potentially viable enterprises. Improved protection of creditors
should also increase the level of financing available to good companies. In close consultation
with the Bank and IMF, the Government has initiated a revision of the new draft legislation on
bankruptcy and enterprise restructuring to be in line with international best practice and the
overall commercial legal framework. It will submit this legislation, satisfactory to the Bank and
Fund, to the Seimas. hi addition, the Government will develop and begin to implement an action
plan for removing key bottlenecks for implementation of these laws.
58.   Removing barriers to new business development. Lithuania has improved its general
business conditions and its record in attracting investments. Nonetheless, a recent FIAS study
found that barriers to new business development remain high compared to its Baltic and Central
European neighbors, especially in access to land and the sale and movement of goods. Complex,
changing, often contradictory rules and regulations are a potential stimulus to corruption, and a
particular burden on SMEs. Deregulation and removal of bottlenecks, administrative barriers and
creation of equal conditions for all can be a low cost way to improve the business environment
and spur growth.



18
59.    Reform objectives and SAL measures. The program aims to support reforms in the two
critical areas defined above - land acquisition and the sale and movement of goods. The
Government has amended a series of decrees to remove critical bottlenecks to land acquisition
and administration. It has prepared and proposed to Seimas legislation to reduce the number of
sectors restricted to domestic investment and to eliminate inequalities in the setting of license
fees. It is committed to make further progress in both areas, with a focus on; facilitating the
processing of remaining restitution claims; streamlining the registration of land, buildings and
mortgages; eliminating unnecessary bureaucracy; and eliminating excessively high licensing fees.
B.4. Restructuring and Privatizing the Energy Sector
60.    Background. Much was achieved in the 1995-98 period, including under SAL I, to
develop a strategy for the energy sector and to address its most deep-seated problems. An energy
pricing comrnission was established with substantial autonomy. Decisive action was taken to
tackle the energy arrears of public authorities. The district heating industry was transferred from
Lithuanian Power Company (LPC) to municipal authorities. Tentative steps were taken towards
preparing restructuring and privatization plans for the electricity and gas industries. Finally,
International Accounting Standards were adopted by the main State-owned energy companies.
61.    Despite this impressive progress, Lithuania has not achieved the full benefit of these
reforms. The energy sector has remained the source of many of Lithuania's fiscal problems. In
an attempt to protect the population from the consequences of higher basic energy costs, regular
direct ministerial interventions delayed needed tariff increases for power and gas. Similar
interventions promoted the export of power to Belarus as a device to subsidize domestic tariffs.
However, the inability of Belarus to pay produced the opposite effect. The resulting losses have
in the end been financed from the State budget (e.g., by takeovers of commercial debt), through
State-guaranteed borrowing, and more recently through tariff increases.
62.   In addition, the sector remains unreformed and inefficient, negatively affecting the
competitiveness of the downstream sectors, and thus the pace of macroeconomic adjustment. It
also has a significant impact on the living conditions of the population, particularly the poor.
Substantial dialogue has taken place regarding restructuring the sector in recent years, but there
has been a persistent reluctance to confront the need to bring about a sharp and permanent
separation of commercial energy activities from state ownership. Until this is done, the potential
of the sector's difficulties to overspill into the budget and to be a drag on the performance of
other sectors will remain. Furthermore, since the district heating industry was separated from
LPC in 1997, and despite stated Ministerial intentions, no further actual restructuring has
occurred in the sector, apart from the partial privatization of Mazeikiu Nafta.
63.    Starting in late-1999, the pace of reform has picked up significantly. The Government
has reaffirmed its commitment to restructuring the power and gas sub-sectors and is participating
in studies towards establishing a Common Baltic Electricity Market. The drafting of new energy
legislation is progressing. Increased prices for electricity and gas effective January 1, 2000 seem
likely to cover costs in 2000. Privatization advisors have been selected for LPC and Lithuanian
Gas (LG). Improvements have begun to be made in the corporate governance of key utilities.
64.    The stage has been reached, therefore, where the emphasis in the Lithuanian energy
sector must focus on: consolidating the progress already achieved; establishing a clear vision of
the ultimate structure and ownership desired for the sector; and making irreversible moves
towards the implementation of the selected structures. If these objectives can be realized, a major



19
contribution will have been made towards the achievement of key SAL targets. Specifically; the
State budget will be insulated from further erosion by energy company deficits; incentives will
have been put in place for decreasing energy costs and prices through efficiency gains; and
poverty reduction will have been supported by mechanisms which support long-run least cost
energy supply.
65.   The SAL program supports several medium-term objectives in the sector: To establish a
competitive framework, where possible, and unbundle the sector to create the incentives for cost
reduction to ensure that Lithuania's energy needs can be met at long-run rninimum cost; to
enhance the sector's competitiveness, prior to EU Accession, by increasing private participation
in the sector; to control the impact of energy costs on the budgets of poor households; and to
place all energy activities on a commercial and financial footing, as stable employers and reliable
sources of tax revenue. The program is grouped into six sets of measures.
66.   Selection of market models for electricity and gas.  These reforms aim to bring
maximal efficiency gains, by facilitating competition and creating incentives to limit costs. The
unusual nature of the power supply/ demand balance in Lithuania poses special problems in the
development of a market which add weight to the arguments in favor of a Common Baltic
Electricity Market (CBEM). Broadening the size of the market would increase the prospects for
competition and, hence, efficiency gains. The reforms have begun with the selection of the
market models consistent with EU directives, embodied in draft electricity and natural gas laws
which have been submitted to Seimas. Together with the Governments of Latvia and Estonia, the
Government has established working groups to consider and recommend upon the necessary
technical, economic, institutional and financial issues relating to the development of the CBEM.
These working groups will complete their tasks by establishing a time-bound action plan to fully
meet EU directives on market liberalization.
67.   Restructuring the power and gas sub-sectors. Under the program, the progressive
restructuring of LPC and LG, consistent with the chosen market model, starts with unbundling.
In the case of power, this has begun with the establishment of generation, transmission and
distribution businesses as (often several) separate profit centers with their own accounts and
clearly identified transfer prices and career structures, to take effect July 1 2000. For gas, LG
has established LPG as a separate profit center with its own set of accounts. From this starting
position, the generation, transmission/national grid operation, and distribution businesses of LPC
will be established as separate companies by February 1, 2001. LG will separate its LPG
business in a manner consistent with EU principles. The Government will also prepare trading
rules and the grid code for power and submit these to the Bank.
68.   Privatization of Lithuanian Power Company and Lithuanian Gas. The program aims
to support the introduction of private capital in a way which brings operational efficiencies, puts
downward pressure on prices, and increases privatization revenues. To achieve these aims, the
Government is committed to employ best practice in both privatizations, including open,
international tenders, with international investment banks engaged throughout the process. For
both firms, the Government has prepared a satisfactory request for proposals, selection criteria
and short list for hiring an investment bank, and then selected such banks. As the privatization
process moves forward, the Government will submit for Bank review the following: the
investment banks' privatization plans, the pre-qualification criteria for bidders, the criteria for the
selection of a winning bid and a report on the selection of the winning bid. Finally, by June 2001,
the Government will offer at least 51 percent of the total power distribution system for sale to
international strategic buyers using open bidding processes. This will probably involve the sale
of one or two of the largest distribution systems. If possible, the Government will also begin sale



20
of select generation assets, but plans to keep the transmission grid as a State-owned regulated
utility. The government will also offer at least 41 percent of LG for sale to an international
strategic buyer using an open bidding process.
69.    Governance and management of the energy companies. The governance of LPC and
LG worsened in recent years, hampering restructuring. The relative roles of the Government and
commercial enterprises need to be clarified to eliminate political and direct governmental
involvement in the decision-making. The SAL will aim, in the period while the Government
retains a majority stake in these firms, to ensure that they are run on normal commercial terms.
The Government has begun to establish a new and potentially improved governance structure in
both companies. The program supports the clarification of these structures. The government has
amended legislation, other regulations and the Statutes of LPC and LG, to require the Minister of
Economy to set out appropriate remits and working procedures for the non-executive Boards of
these companies and to appoint to these Boards only personnel with named qualifications. These
structures have been complemented by appointing internal Management Boards to assist the
Directors General. The Government is now working with these Boards to agree financial targets
and investment criteria. In turn, company managements will prepare corporate strategies to be
reviewed and approved by the Supervisory Boards.
70.    The legal and regulatory environment The program aims to establish a more reliable
legal and regulatory environment, as an essential step to support new structural and ownership
models and to protect the public interest. This particularly concerns privatization -- revenues
from sale of state assets, impact on prices paid by consumers, and efficiency improvement. The
legal reform program aims to create the framework required to meet EU Directives on energy,
and to maximize the potential revenues from privatization. Under this program, Lithuania will
enact an acceptable electricity law, a gas law, and a district heating law. The draft laws also
provide for the adoption of incentive-based regulation (price caps) for the natural monopoly
component of the sector and, in the interim, to ensure that tariff proposals from LPC and LG are
delivered to the EPC in a timely manner. The regulatory reform program aims to strengthen the
independence and capacity of the National Control Commission for Prices and Energy Activities
(EPC). The government has begun preparation of legal and other changes needed to establish a
system for the financing of the EPC which is independent of the State budget or of Government
decision, and will establish this by January 1, 2001. Lithuania will complete the regulatory
environment by extending the powers of the EPC to include the licensing and supervision of
operators, norms for the trading of power and gas, service quality and consumer protection.
71.    Financial stability. The financial positions of LPC, and to a lesser extent LG, has been
critical. This is caused partly by the past failure of prices to rise in line with costs, and in the case
of LPC by the decision to export power to Belarus. While gas and electricity prices were
increased effective January 1, 2000, the financial position of these utilities may deteriorate further
(particularly regarding immediate debt servicing needs) unless additional actions are taken.
Furthermore, without assurances of prices which produce a reasonable return on shareholder
equity, LPC and LG will not be able to attract private investment. The aim should be for energy
utilities to be able to fully service debt without recourse to Government support, and for prices to
reflect efficient use of capital attracting private investors.
72.   The program includes two sets of reforms, beginning with financial restructuring. To
cover immediate debt servicing needs, LPC has initiated conversion of short-term debt to longer-
term maturity. The eventual aim is to eliminate short-term debt, with the exception of working
capital needs by June 2001. Second, the program includes a review and reform of pricing
criteria. The government cannot intervene directly in EPC decisions, but can stipulate these



21
criteria. The Government has initiated an assessment of these criteria for LPC and LG, especially
as to consistency with attraction of private investors, the incentives for downward price pressure,
and reflection of the restructuring of LPC (separate pricing of network and ancillary services).
This will be followed by initiation of the needed changes in legal framework required to
implement the change in pricing criteria, and then by implementation of these criteria.
B.5. Reforming Agriculture
73.    Background. At present, the most acute problems in agriculture relate to the budgetary
sphere. This sector's traditional upward pressure on government expenditures became especially
pronounced after the Russian crisis. The Government's efforts to protect farmers from declining
world prices and the loss of traditional export markets created financial commitments far in
excess of initial and revised budget targets. In 1999, total commitments in the farm budget rose
36 percent (0.45  percent of GDP) above planned levels.  This sometimes involved the
introduction of new support measures, or the relatively high levels of adrninistered farm prices
and  subsidies (especially  acute for milk  and  grains).   The  latter not only  encouraged
overproduction, but also increased losses of the Agri-Food Market Regulation Agency (AFMRA)
and created pressure for increases in budget spending on export subsidies.
74.    These unplanned commitments were initially financed from  extra-budgetary sources,
such as the Privatization Fund (PF). When such sources were exhausted, the Government
adjusted in two ways. First, it made ad hoc reallocations within the farm budget, away from
support to investment programs, and towards distortive programs such as production and export
subsidies. Second, it began to accumulate arrears, which grew to LTL 280 million, or 0.7 percent
of GDP, in 1999. As in the overall budget, these pressures were very pronounced in the extra-
budgetary sphere. In particular, the AFMRA had operating losses (due to poorly designed market
regulation policies as well as poor management) far in excess of what was earmarked at the
beginning of 1999. The recession-induced decline in available new resources combined with the
need to repay arrears subsequently led to a harsh contraction in regular programs in the 2000
budget. Had commitments and financing been better managed in 1999, the arrears problem
would have been smaller, and 2000 programs could have been decided under far less severe
constraints.
Box 4: Agriculture under SAL I
SAL I spurred significant reform of the agricultural sector. At the time it was being negotiated, the Government was
raising administered prices and expanding the products and quantities that they covered. The main focus of the policy
reforms was to restrict the increases in minimum price levels and the quantities and products to which they applied.
Over the course of SAL I, both quantities and price levels were reduced in real terms even more than had been agreed,
and sorne products were removed entirely from the list of products covered. Specified reductions in the real level of
subsidy expenditures were also exceeded. There was also progress until mid-1998 on shifting from price and credit
subsidies to investment grants as a less distorting and more future-oriented form of support to the sector. However,
much of the progress in reducing the real level of subsidies and in shifting to more stable, consistent and transparent
policies has unfortunately suffered significant erosion in late 1998 and especially in 1999.
On the structural adjustment and efficiency side, the program to privatize remaining shares of processing enterprises to
farmers at nominal prices was essentially completed by the second tranche. Remaining shares in these enterprises were
thereafter turned over to the State Property Fund. Though no action was taken to remove restrictions on the sale of
farmers shares, this issue has remained on the reform agenda of the Government. Similarly, the proposal to permit
legal entities to own agricultural land was presented to the Rural Affairs Committee of Seimas during SAL I and went
no further- but this now appears to have much wider support and is ready to formally move forward. In these areas,
SAL I proposed reforms that needed a gestation period and now seem ready for adoption.



22
75.    The agricultural sector faces efficiency problems. In 1998, it accounted for 22 percent of
recorded employment but only 11 percent of GDP. The Russian crisis accentuated another source
of weak competitiveness, namely poor quality levels, which made it nearly impossible to sell
more in non-CIS markets. Improved farm productivity is crucial for long-run increases in rural
living standards. Hence, there is a need to remove bottlenecks to the creation of new off-farm
jobs in rural areas and to strengthen the agri-food sector. Agriculture also has a major agenda
related to EU accession, through harmonization of legislation with the acquis and enforcement of
it as well as improving efficiency and structures to sustain the competitive pressures of the single
market.
76.   The program  will focus on reforming the support system in agriculture, reducing
expenditures and redirecting resources to promoting increases in farm productivity rather than
subsidizing less efficient farmers. It will also support private sector development through the
removal of crucial bottlenecks, and through protecting government support for productivity
enhancement (co-financing for SAPARD, investment support programs). These reforms will be
consistent with Lithuania's objectives in adopting the EU acquis (including institutional
strengthening) as well as its intentions of joining the WTO. They fall into three broad categories.
77.   Enhancing fiscal transparency and sustainability.  Budgetary problems reflect
combined weaknesses in policy analysis, decision making and implementation. Progress made in
1997 and early 1998 towards a more predictable and transparent policy regime was reversed in
1999, with reversion to ad hoc responses to immediate pressures. Neither the Ministry of
Agriculture nor the Government provided adequate oversight and control of conrrnitments and
expenditures. Some implementation mechanisms designed to limit budget exposure were
overturned by Government decisions. Most subsidies were still open-ended, i.e., the quantity on
which payments are made was not fixed. Thus, a high price or direct payment subsidy could
induce more production and result in higher expenditures. A second factor in the cost explosion
was a quality shift that also should have been anticipated. After providing much higher price
subsidies for higher grade milk and also funding investments in quality improvements, there was
a substantial increase in the share of milk meeting these standards and consequently an increase
in subsidy payments.
78.   Reform objectives and SAL measures. The reform program aims to limit the negative
budget exposure/unmet comnmitments from agricultural support mechanisms while contributing to
the development of EU-consistent financial monitoring and control procedures. First, it supports
policy reforns to limit and reduce open-endedness of support mechanisms, by restricting budget
expenditures on market regulation and income support, as well as by shifting some of the risk of
decreases in market prices away from the Government. The Government has; introduced a cap
on such expenditures beginning in the 2000 budget; eliminated open-ended commitments; and
ensured that sugar market regulation mechanisms are self-financing. This will be followed by a
shift towards decoupled support measures, and by introduction of EU-consistent financial
safeguards for implementation of support measures.
79.    Second, the program focuses on implementation issues. The Government will introduce
for all agricultural support programs, the same financial planning, accounting, and control
procedures required by the EU for the administration of pre-accession funds by the National
Paying Agency. To improve AFMRA operational and financial performance, the Government
has submitted a plan to increase its accountability and transparency and reduce its costs and their
uncertainty. These measures, to be completed by June 2001, include: restructuring govemance
and operational procedures; introducing stricter financial control and auditing procedures; and
prohibiting the expansion of its activities beyond Government-approved intervention programs.



23
These efforts will be supported by policy changes to intervention policies which ensure that
AFMRA can operate within a limited allocation from the budget. In addition, the Government
will begin to revise the statutes of the Rural Loan Guarantee Fund (RLGF) to broaden its client
base, to facilitate the implementation of EU SAPARD programs, and to accordingly increase its
loan reserves.
80.   Creating a stable, more consistent and less distorting policy environment. Structural
adjustment is hampered by the instability and inconsistency of the policy environment and by the
unwillingness of government to limit its role in decisions that are better made by private operators
of farms and enterprises. This fuels short-sighted policy decisions, as seen in frequent ad hoc
changes in market regulation and income support programs.
81.   Reform objectives and SAL measures. The program aims to create a predictable decision
environment for private sector and government entities, by promoting stability in design and
implementation of national policies and consistency in their evolution toward EU support
policies, implementation mechanisms, and monitoring and control procedures. To this end, the
Government has; approved and announced a comprehensive set of new policy and market
regulation measures for year 2000 programs; and prepared a detailed short-term action plan for
their implementation. The Government is committed to maintain these measures while deepening
the implementation of its medium-term strategy, including the full implementation of parcel and
crop declaration and animal identification and registration systems.
82.   The Government has taken a crucial step in implementing its strategy by eliminating
price subsidies for grains and milk and ensuring that market regulation measures are set below the
world market price levels. This will facilitate market transactions not involving the Government.
It is committed to refrain from introducing new measures that have distorting effect, relying
instead on safety net measures that provide limited and infrequent intervention. Finally, to
improve the implementation and monitoring of national policies and facilitate administration of
current and future EU support programs, it will reform the national and regional agricultural
administration, including subordination of regional agricultural officers to the Ministry of
Agriculture and adoption of EU planning, accounting and control procedures.
83.   Raising competitiveness of the agri-food sector and vitality of the rural economy.
Efficiency improvements in the sector have been hampered by poorly functioning land markets,
including restrictions on the ownership and use of agricultural land. In addition, the high number
of troubled enterprises in Lithuania's agri-food industry has created pressure for state support,
hence straining the budget. Low product quality played an important role in raising the
vulnerability of the economy to developments in the CIS market. Harmonization with higher EU
farm produce quality standards is crucial for EU accession. Inability to protect investment
support funding could also cause problems with SAPARD, as seen in the inability to secure
significant funding in the 2000 budget for co-financing the implementation of SAPARD.
84.   Reform objectives and SAL measures. The program aims to promote competitiveness
through removal of specific bottlenecks to rural development in two key areas. First, to achieve
improved structures and efficiency of primary farming, the program supports enhanced land
market activity and consolidation of farm operations. To strengthen the legal basis for the land
market and make land acceptable as collateral, the Government has submitted to Seimas
amendments to the Land Law which remove constraints on the use of agricultural land for
alternative purposes. It will also submit to Seimas; a constitutional amendment to permit
agricultural land ownership by domestic legal entities; and the draft Consolidation Act, designed
to facilitate land consolidation and discourage further fragmentation in agricultural holdings.



24
85.    Second, to promote restructuring and increased competitiveness of agri-food industry,
the Government has submitted legal amendments to eliminate restrictions on circulation of
farmers shares in this industry. The Government is also committed to a phase enhancement of
quality standards. Despite strong pressure to delay, it has ensured enforcement of new raw milk
quality standards. It is committed to make satisfactory progress on the National Acquis Adoption
Program for development and implementation of quality requirements and restructuring of the
food quality control system. Finally, the Government will ensure the national co-financing of
SAPARD, the continuation of the investment and rural development grant programs within the
agricultural budget, and the limiting of the interest rate subsidy element of these programs.
C. Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements
86.    Lithuania's medium-term  economic prospects are good.  Assuming the successful
implementation of the macroeconomic and structural reform programs agreed under the IMF
SBA and the SAL, and some improvement in the external environment, the consolidated fiscal
deficit should fall from 8.6 percent in 1999 to 2.8 percent of GDP in 2000 and to balance in the
outer years (Table 1). GDP growth is expected to rebound from -4.1 percent in 1999 to 2.1
percent in 2000, before rising further to 4 percent in 2001 and stabilizing at around 5 percent in
the outer years (Table 3). The recovery in 2000 would primarily be driven by export growth
linked to improvements in the external environment, and appreciation of the Euro vs. the dollar.
These factors would compensate for the contractionary near-term effect of the fiscal adjustment.
In later years, export recovery will be increasingly supported by further reorientation of exports
towards western markets, partial recovery in CIS markets, and productivity improvements
supported by SAL reforms and FDI. The combination of higher oil prices, increased tariffs for
power and gas, and real depreciation will raise the annual inflation rate from 0.3 percent in 1999
to 2 percent in 2000, and about the same level in the medium-term.
87.    Domestic demand will remain subdued until 2001 as a result of the fiscal contraction. In
1999,   gross   domestic  fixed
Table 3: Composition of Real GDP Growth:          investment as a share of GDP
1999-2002 (% annual growth rate)           declined by almost 2 percentage
19 2000   2001   2002   points to 22.5 percent.  Driven
Real GDP growth      -4.1    2.1      4.0    5.0  points to    the prcent.  Driven
Domestic demand     -5.5    0.2    2.9       4.0  primarily  by the private sector
Consumption       4.44     0.0     1.7     3.0  (reduced crowding out leading to
Investment       -9.6     1.1    7.6      7.4  lower interest rates, meeting EU
Exports           -18.3    7.3    8.4    8.6  accession    requirements,   and
CIS           -59.3     5.2    4.7      4.8  improved  confidence), this will
EU              6.5     7.4    7.4      7.6  modestly rebound to 23 percent in
ROW           -11.9    14.4    11.4    13.0  2000 and 23.6 percent in 2001.
Services       -2.0    4.1      6.9    7.0  Gross  national  savings  should
Imports           -14.0    2.1      5.4    5.9  gradually  increase  from   11.8
EU GDP growth         2.2     3.4    3.1      2.7  percent in 1999 to 15.3 percent in
EU Import growth      5.2     7.4    6.5    6.1  2001, primarily due to higher public
FSU GDP growth        2.3     1.3    2.3    2.6  savings.   In  the  longer-term,
FS U Import growth   -27.0    7.5    4.7      4.7  lpension reform, strengthening of
the banking system, and a sustained
increase in enterprise profitability provide other opportunities to increase private savings.
88.    The combination of expenditure reduction, real depreciation versus the Euro and
productivity gains will support export growth, particularly to EU markets. Following a decline of



25
18.3 percent in 1999, real exports should experience 7-8.6 percent annual growth in the following
years. This is based on the conservative assumption that Lithuania will not be able to take full
advantage of the expected acceleration in EU import demand until 2001, when enterprise
restructuring will be further advanced. Export projections to the CIS are also conservative, below
projected import growth in the CIS. With the pickup in aggregate demand and higher oil prices,
the respective shift in imports will be from -14 percent in 1999 to 2.1 percent in 2000, and then to
the 5.5-6 percent range in the outer years. With savings growing more rapidly than investment,
the current account deficit should diminish by more than 2 percentage points of GDP to 9 percent
in 2000. Further fiscal adjustment and structural reforns would later support a continued decline
of this deficit to 6-7 percent of GDP in 2004. This would allow decreased reliance on foreign
financing and improved balance of payments sustainability.
89.   Even under this favorable macroeconomic scenario, Lithuania will need substantial
capital inflows to finance the current account deficit during the adjustment period of the next few
years. Between 2000 and 2002, the gross externalfinancing requirements are estimated at about
US$5.4 billion. These resources are necessary to finance US$2.9 billion in non-income current
account deficits, US$0.5 billion in increases in international reserves, and the remainder of US$2
billion to fulfill its net income obligations. Foreign direct investment (FDI) is expected to finance
about 30 percent of these needs, driven by privatization of the remaining large enterprises to
strategic foreign investors, acquisition of previously privatized enterprises, and new greenfield
investments, all of which will be promoted by the various SAL reforms aimed at furthering
privatization and improving the business environment. The SAL II first tranche will be largely
allocated to meet the upcoming G-24 debt repayment in July 2000 and the second tranche will be
released in mid-2001.
90.   The Government will need to borrow less as the fiscal deficit is brought under control.
Combined with SAL financing, this will reduce its need to borrow commercially and
domestically, as well as for frequent refinancing. This will leaving more room for the private
sector to tap into domestic and foreign markets. Lithuania has built up a relatively large stock of
foreign debt, especially through quasi-fiscal channels. In the last two years alone, and despite
securing of significant privatization revenues, the stock of public external debt jumped from 14.6
percent of GDP in 1997 to 22.6 percent in 1999. Lithuania's total external debt is expected to
increase from 40.7 in 1999 to 45 percent of GDP in 2001. The ratio of total debt service to
exports will fluctuate in the range of 18.5-21 percent in the period 2000-2000, and remain around
20 percent in the medium-term.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Rationale and Objectives
91.   The proposed EUR 108.29 million loan would support the Government program
described above, and in the attached Letter of Development Policy and Policy Action Matrix,
both through the financing provided and through completion of the structural reform agenda. The
main objectives of the loan would be to restore growth, reduce the vulnerability growing out of
high and variable twin deficits, limit immediate and longer-term poverty, and ensure smoother
integration into the EU. Enhancement of medium-term fiscal sustainability and removing
bottlenecks to higher efficiency are the backbones of the reforms to be supported by the SAL.
92.   These reforms represent a consistent and mutually supporting subset of the Lithuania's
overall medium-term economic policy program, and strongly complement the IMF precautionary



26
SBA. They also build on the work started under the first SAL (see Box 2 above), which was
subsequently supported through analytical work, including the major report Lithuania: An
Opportunity for Economic Success (originally prepared as background for SAL II), Lithuania -
Macroeconomic and Financial Sector Vulnerability Review, the FIAS Study Lithuania -
Administrative Barriers to Investment, agriculture policy review, support on pension reform, and
a study of privatization options for Lithuanian Gas. The SAL has been designed to complement
policy measures being supported under ongoing and proposed World Bank projects, with a recent
focus on social and human development.
B. Links to the Country Assistance Strategy
93.   The proposed SAL is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed
by the Executive Board in May 1999. The CAS envisioned an external shock scenario which
could be spurred by one or several of the following; (a) a further worsening of the external
environment, b) a lack of substantial improvement in access to foreign capital markets, (c) an
absence of fiscal tightening, and/or (d) vulnerability to a bunching of foreign debt repayments in
2000. In the resulting scenario, Lithuania could face a liquidity, import and investment squeeze,
and thus a further growth slowdown, which would undermine the budget and/or force large firms
into bankruptcy, with a possible ripple effect on banks. In the event of such a scenario, the CAS
envisioned that the Bank could support the structural reform agenda and help Lithuania
strengthen macroeconomic and financial stability through a second adjustment loan of around
US$ 100 million. The Bank's ability to respond to such request would be conditioned on a strong
and appropriate policy response focused on fiscal and financial measures.
C. Board Conditions and Tranche Triggers
94.   Lithuania's comprehensive reform program is described in Section III above and in the
Letter of Development Policy (Annex 5), and outlined in the Policy Action Matrix (Annex 7). As
a first step towards achieving the reform objectives, Lithuania has implemented the key measures
and shown the key results in the first column of Annex 6. The second column of that annex
indicates the key measures and results for release of the Second Tranche, expected by June 2001.
D. Poverty Implications
95.   The Government's program and the proposed SAL to support that program will have an
important effect on poverty through several channels. Some elements, such as higher energy
prices and the faster restructuring of agriculture, will have negative near-term impacts. These
will be addressed by enhanced monitoring of the effectiveness of social safety net systems as a
first step in developing reforms to improve their functioning. The program also has several
positive effects on poverty. By working to prevent an economic crisis, it will reduce the
likelihood of shocks which are especially hard on the poor. By contributing to low levels of
inflation and limiting arrears on transfers, it will limit further erosion of living standards of the
poor. It will support sustainable growth as the fundamental basis for long-term poverty reduction,
including particularly pro-poor elements such as rural and SME development. Finally, it will
control hidden enterprise subsidies which delay restructuring while crowding out pro-poor
expenditures when budgetary pressures arise. The operation complements a country program
already heavily weighted towards social and human development, including ongoing and planned
projects in social assistance, health and education.



27
E. Coordination with the IMF and Donors
96.   The achievement of SAL goals will be strengthened by the Bank's close collaboration
with the IMF and donors. The Government's overall reform program has been designed within a
framework for macroeconomic stability consistent with the Lithuania's precautionary Stand-by
Arrangement with the IMF. The SAL incorporates this macroeconomic framework. The IMF
Executive Board approved this 15-month arrangement for US$83 million (SDR 61.8 million),
spanning the period January 1 2000-March 31, 2001. Given its present level of reserves, the
Government does not intend to make any purchases. As this arrangement and the proposed SAL
span much the same time period, the two operations were prepared in close cooperation between
the Bank and Fund, including several parallel missions. The ivIF has provided important
technical assistance in several areas covered by the proposed SAL, including bankruptcy and
fiscal management. Bank input was important in developing the structural elements of the SBA.
97.   The Bank has regularly informed the European Union of progress in SAL preparation,
including to ensure that the proposed reforms are consistent and supportive of Lithuania's
aspirations in joining the EU. The EU has given extensive past and ongoing technical assistance
in numerous areas included in the SAL agenda (agriculture, management of public finances,
banking privatization, institutional strengthening of the pension system, and strengthening
Lithuania's social assistance system). These undertakings will support achievement of SAL
goals. Other bilateral donors are already providing significant assistance in the specific areas
included in the SAL, which therefore naturally complements their efforts.
F. Implementation, Monitoring and Supervision
98.   To facilitate program implementation and coordination of activities, the Government has
decided to keep in place the inter-ministerial Steering Committee responsible for preparing the
SAL. This committee, which will be charged with overseeing the implementation, will continue
to be led by the Ministry of Finance. During loan preparation, the Bank has assisted the
Government to ensure timely implementation of the various reforms. The TA agenda for the
SAL has been defined. While most of the needed TA is already in place, the Bank and the
Government will continue to work to mobilize the necessary additional donor funding, and
supervise delivery.
99.   The Bank will monitor the general progress of Lithuania's reform program, and more
particularly the implementation of the agreed benchmarks, through regular reviews. This will
require regular monitoring and supervision led by the World Bank Office in Lithuania. A set of
agreed performance indicators will guide the impact assessment of this operation.
G. Financial Arrangements
100.  Borrower, loan amount, tranching. The proposed SAL will be made to the Republic of
Lithuania, represented by the Ministry of Finance. The loan, which will be a fixed spread loan in
Euros, payable in 11 years with a bullet principal repayment. The loan will be released in two
tranches, the first upon approval of the Loan and notification by the Bank of loan effectiveness,
and the second on fulfillment of the release conditions within twelve months of the release of the
first tranche. We consider complying with the first tranche conditions listed in Table 4 in
addition to significant progress already made, sufficient to justify the first tranche release. The
Government has indicated that it will use most of the proceeds of the first tranche towards
refinancing a G-24 loan falling due in July 2000.



28
101.   Loan management. The Ministry of Finance will open and maintain a special deposit
account in the Bank of Lithuania. Loan administration will be the responsibility of a loan
manager employed by the Ministry of Finance, who will be responsible for preparing the
withdrawal applications, maintaining the special deposit account, arranging for its timely audit (if
requested by the Bank), and monitoring overall loan implementation. The loan manager will also
be responsible for coordinating the preparation of the Borrower's contributions to the
Implementation Completion Report and for writing those sections related to loan administration.
The Government will approve the loan before it becomes effective.
102.  Disbursements. Upon notification by the Bank of loan effectiveness and of second
tranche release, the proceeds of the first and second tranche, respectively, of the loan will be
deposited by the Bank into the special deposit account at the request of the Borrower. If, after
deposit in this account, the proceeds of the Loan are used for ineligible purposes (for example, to
finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services on the IBRD's standard
negative list), the IBRD will require the borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the account
for use for eligible purposes; or (ii) refund the amount directly to the IBRD, in which case the
IBRD will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the Loan.
103.   Accounting, Auditing and Closing Date.  Although routine audits of the Deposit
Account will not be required, the EBRD reserves the right to require audits at any time- The
expected closing date of the Loan will be June 30, 2001.
104.   Environmental Impact. The SAL will have no direct impact on the environment. For
the purpose of Operational Directives 4.01, it has been placed in Category C, which does not
require an environmental assessment.
H. Benefits and Risks
105.   The SAL will provide four types of potential benefits. First, it will work to preserve the
stabilization gains made so far, which is especially important given the currency board and the
poverty impact of a crisis. Second, it will help the Government articulate a comprehensive
sectoral reform agenda within a consistent macroeconomic framework, with synergetic reforms
over a range of sectors having a particularly large impact on growth potential. Third, the Bank's
assessment of the country's structural reform efforts will have a positive signaling value, both for
private foreign borrowing and for eventual EU accession. Finally, the associated financial
support will make the adjustment process more sustainable, particularly as relates to mitigation of
the near-term poverty impact. The alternative would be either higher interest rates or more severe
transitional recession as demand is further reduced to maintain external sustainability.
106.   The proposed SAL also entails risks. First, the substantial uncertainty around any single
macroeconomic scenario makes alternative (including downside) scenarios possible. The base
scenario assumes a major fiscal and structural policy initiative backed by long-term foreign
financial resources, and/or some improvement in the external environment. In their absence, e.g.,
because of slower than expected economic growth in Lithuania's key trading partners, or
contagion from other emerging markets leading to a sharp cut in capital inflows, a less favorable
scenario could emerge. The resulting fall in creditor confidence would raise real interest rates,
placing added pressure on enterprise financing. Renewed difficulties in servicing public debt
would threaten further increases in budgetary arrears. As a result, recovery of growth and
investment would be delayed, macro-financial vulnerability significantly increased, poverty
increased further, and Lithuania's integration into the European economy delayed.



29
107.  Second, there are political risks associated with the parliamentary elections scheduled for
October, 2000, soon after the start of the operation. The success of the SAL depends on a
sustained comrnmitment to, and ownership of, the proposed program. Delays in implementation
would undermine the positive growth and fiscal outlook. Two risk factors are at play. First, the
Government's commitment to fiscal austerity and difficult reforms could be tested in the pre-
election period. Second, the election itself could lead to a new government (a factor which
complicated implementation of the first SAL) which, while unlikely to have a significantly lower
overall commitment to reforms, may have reduced commitment to some specific measures.
However, the general continuity of reforms across past changes in government is further
buttressed by the widespread perception and commitment by all political parties to the view that
reforms have to be deepened to speed EU accession. These risks are being mitigated by the Bank
through regular consultation with a broader group of civil society outside the government.
108.  Third, the SAL would tackle some issues which proved difficult in the past, e.g., banking
privatization and acceleration of retirement age. As described above, there now appears to be
greater support for such measures. The Russian crisis and its smaller impact on more rapidly
reforming neighbors destroyed the illusion that hard choices need not be made. In most areas,
there is a greater intellectual commitment to reforms which is both procedural and substantive.
Many of the most sensitive issues in the past are tightly linked to EU accession, which has
become more concrete with the start of negotiations.  Finally, there is a possibility that
institutional capacity for implementation could prove insufficient, including due to delays to
needed TA. Much of the needed TA is already in place. Residual risks will be mitigated through
more regular donor coordination meetings, regular supervision, and the continued functioning of
the inter-ministerial Steering Committee.
V. RECOMMENDATION
I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the loan.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
June 2000
Attachment






Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
Table 1
Lithuania:
Key Economic Indicators 1995-2002
Aciual                    Estimated           Projection
1995      199        197        1998       1999      2000       2001       2002
Indicative scenario
Growth rates
GDPpercapita                                    3.5%       4.9%      7.5%       5.1%      -4.1%       2.1%       4.0%       5.0%
Population                                     -0.2%      -0.2%      -0.2%      0.0%       0.1%       0.0%       0.0%       0.0%
GDP (constant prices)                           3.3%       4.7%      7.3%       5.1%      -4.1%       2.1%       4.0%       5.0%
Consumption                                  -11.5%       8.2%      7.6%       7.8%      -4.2%       0.0%       1.7%       3.0%
Gross domestic investment                     51.9%      12.7%     25.2%       5.2%      -2.7%       1.1%       7.6%       7.4%
Exports of goods and services                   9.2%      19.3%     18.7%       0.7%     -18.3%       7.3%       8.4%       8.6%
Imports of goods and services                  10.8%      24.4%     22.8%       4.5%     -14.0%       2.1%       5.4%       5.9%
CPI (average)                                 39.6%      24.6%       8.9%       5.1%      0.8%       2.0%       2.0%       2.2%
Money growth                                  28.9%       -3.5%     34.1%      14.5%      7.7%       7.2%       9.0%       12.0%
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross Domestic investment                      24.7%      24.5%     26.5%      24.4%      23.0%      22.8%      23.6%      24.2%
Govemment investment                          3.4%       2.4%      2.1%       2.7%       1.8%       1.7%       1.8%       2.2%
Private investment                           21.3%      22.1%     24.4%      21.7%      21.2%      21.1%      21.8%      22.0%
Gross national savings                         14.5%     15.3%      16.3%      12.3%     11.8%      13.8%       15.3%      16.5%
Private savings                              12.1%      15.2%     14.3%      11.3%      16.2%      14.8%      13.4%      14.2%
Gover nent Fiae (as % of GDP)
Govemment Deficit/Surplus                     -3.3%       -4.5%     -1.8%      -5.8%      -8.6%      -2.8%      0.0%       0.0%
Total revenue                                 32.3%      29.6%      32.6%      34.0%     32.9%      34.1%      34.4%       34.6%
Tax revenues                                 31.6%      28.8%     31.9%      33.3%      32.0%      33.1%      33.4%      33.6%
Total expenditures and net lending            35.6%      34.2%      33.7%      39.4%     40.7%      37.0%      34.4%      34.6%
Current expenditure                          30.3%      29.4%      30.7%      34.2%     34.4%      35.1%      32.6%      32.4%
of which Consumption                       18.8%      17.3%      18.4%      21.6%     20.8%      20.6%      20.5%      20.5%
Capital expenditure                            3.8%       2.7%      2.7%       2.7%       1.8%       1.7%       1.8%       2.2%
Net lending                                    1.9%       2.0%      0.3%       1.5%       2.3%       0.1%       0.0%       0.0%
GovemmentDebttoGDP                             17.8%     20.1%      21.1%      22.4%     28.1%      30.5%      28.8%       26.8%
Govemment savings                              2.4%       0.2%       1.9%      -1.6%      -4.5%      -1.0%       1.8%       2.2%
Monetar Indicators (% of GDP)
M2 (Broad money)                               23.3%      17.2%     19.0%      19.4%      20.7%      21.8%      22.5%      23.6%
Domestic Credit                                13.3%      10.4%      11.7%     12.2%      15.3%      16.0%      17.7%      19.7%
Exposure indicators
External Debt (US$ millions)                   1374       2081       3147      3577       4335       4633       5247       5719
Extemal Debt/GDP                              22.8%      26.4%     32.8%      33.3%      40.7%      42.0%      45.0%      45.9%
Debt service to exports                        5.6%       6.4%     10.3%      16.6%      18.6%      19.9%      18.5%      21.0%
Net International Investmeat Position (USS millions)    -1125.4   -1817.3   -2456.5   -3669.0   -4665.7    -5636.5    -6594.7
Net International lnvestment Position/GDP               -14.2%     -19.0%    -22.9%     -34.5%     -42.3%     -48.4%     -53.0%



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
Table 2
Lithuania:                                                    Actual                  Estimated          Projection
Balance of Payments 1995-2002                    1995       1996      1997      1998      1999       2000      2001      200
Indicative scenario (US$ millions)
CURRENT ACCOUNT                               -614.4    -722.6    -981A    -1297.3   -1194.4    .996.9    -970.8    -958.2
as % of GDP                               -10.2%      -9.2%    -10.2%    -12.1%    -11.2%     .9.0%      -8.3%     -7.7%
Goods: exports f.o.b.                        2706.1    3413.1    4192.4    3961.6    3146.6    3521.9    3900.2    4353.1
Goods: imports f.o.b.                        3404.0    4309.3    5339.9    5480.0    4551.3    4769.2    5093.3    5494.8
Balance on Goods                               -697.9    -896.2   -1147.5   -1518.4   -1404.7   -1247.4   -1193.1   -1141.l
Services: net                                 -12.9      120.9     134.5     241.0     305.4     350.9      394.4     440.8
Balance on Goods and Services                  -710.8    -775.3   -1013.0   -1277.0   -1099.3    -896.4    -798.8    -701.0
Income: net                                   -12.9      -91.0    -198.4    -255.5    -257.8    -379.7    -458.5    -550.8
Balance on Goods, Services and Income          -723.7    -866.3   -1211.4   -1532.5   -1357.1   -1276.1   -1257.2   -1251.8
Current transfers: net                         109.3     143.8     230.1     235.2      162.8     279.4     286.4     293.6
CAPITAL ACCOUNT BALANCE                        -39.0       5.5       4.1      -1.7       -3.3       5.0       6.0       5.0
FINANCIAL ACCOUNT BALANCE                      597.5     677.9    1017.4    1413.9    1044.1    1227.6    1105.3    1110.2
Direct foreign investrnents (net)               72.6     152.3      354.5     926.0     486.0     560.0      500.0     500.0
Portfolio investments (net)                     86.7     214.6      180.6     -42.7     507.5     430.0      257.0     287.0
Othermediumandlong-termcapital,net*            310.7     385.6      450.0     311.9     236.3      83.6      169.3     168.2
Government, net                               250.9     289.7     171.8     121.8      250.0     -69.0      88.0      35.0
Other sectors, net                             59.8      95.9     278.2     190.0      -13.2     152.6      81.3     133.2
Othercapitalflows                              127.5     -74.6      32.33     218.7    -185.7      154.0     179.0     155.0
ERRORS AND OMISSIONS                           287.7      54.5      197.7     285.0     -42.1       0.0        0.0       0.0
OVERALL BALANCE                                231.8      15.3      237.8     399.9    .195.7     235.7      140.4     157.0
FINANCING ITEMS
Change in Net International reserves, total   -231.8     -15.3    -237.8    -399.0     195.7    -235.7    -140.4    -157.0
Reserves changes of Monetary authorities     -294.6     -35.9    -251.8    -371.0      211.0    -206.7    -102.4    -113.0
IMFCredit(net)                                 62.8      20.6      14.0     -28.0      -17.0     -29.0     -38.0     -44.0
Total Gross Intemational Reserves              819.0     834.3    1062.7    1460.0    1242.0    1444.1    1547.9    1662.2
Gross Reserves as months of imports              2.5       2.0        2.0       2.8       2.8       3.1        3.1       3.1
* 1995-1997 include short-term foreign loans.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
Table 3
Lithuania:                                                     Actual                   Estimated          Projection
Key Exposure Indicators 1995-2002                1995      199        1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002
Indicative scenario
Total Debt Outsatnding and Disbursed (TDO)    1374.1    2081.5    3146.5    3576.8    4335.5    4633.0    5247.0    5719.0
(mill.US$)
Net Long term Disbursements (mill.US$)                                       311.9     236.3      83.6      169.3     168.2
Total Debt Service (TDS) (mill-US$)            179.0    270.0      538.0     863.0     808.0     953.0      978.0    1227.0
Debt and debt service indicators (%)
TDO/GDP                                        22.8      26.4      32.8      33.3      40.7       42.0      45.0      45.9
TDS/XGS                                         5.6       6.4      10.3      16.6       18.6      19.9      18.5      21.0
TDS/GDP                                         3.0       3.4       5.6       8.0       7.6        8.6       8.4       9.9
IBRD exposure indicators, %
IBRD DS/pubfic debt service                    8.8       3.9       4.3        4.3       5.1       5.9      12.0       7.4
IBRD DS/XGS                                    0.1       0.1       0.2        0.2       0.5       0.6       0.7       0.7
Share of IBRD portfolio                       0.05      0.09       0.10      0.15      0.15      0.17      0.20      0.19
IMFcredit (mill.US$)                           261.0     273.0     270.0     253.0     236.0     207.0      169.0     126.0



Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
LITHUANIA - Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
Closed 2
Projects
Last PSR                                        Difference Between
Supervision Rating hi                               Expected and Actual
Board                                                                   Original Amount in US$ Millions   Disbursements a
Date
Fiscal
Year    Active Projects                     Development Implementation
Objectives    Progress      IBRD    IDA Cancel. Undisb.  Orig. Frm Rev'd
1994    P008537 POWER REHABILITATION            HS             S           26.4      0      0   12.53  12.53       12.53
1995    P008536 ENTERP & FIN. SECT.              S            HS             25      0      0     1.08   1.07          0
1995    P008553 KLAIPEDA ENVIRONMENT             S             S              7      0      0      3.2    3.2       0.08
1996    P036011 KLAIPEDAGEOTHERMAL               S            HS            5.9      0      0    2.18   2.18           0
1996    P008538 PRIVATE AGRIC. DEVT.             S             S             30      0      0   23.56  23.56        7.04
1996    P035783 SIAULIAI ENVIRONMENT             S             S            6.2      0      0    0.32   0.31           0
1997    P035163 ENERGY EFFIC/HOUSING             S             S             10      0      0    5.45   5.29           0
1997    P008539 SOC. POL. COMM SERV             HS            HS            3.7      0      0      1.58   1.14         0
1999    P035802 MUNICIPAL DEVT.                  S            U            30.1      0      0   27.75    1.84          0
2000    P035780 HEALTH                           S             S          21.24      0       0   21.03   0.35          0
2000    P035776 KLAIPEDA PORT                                             35.36      0       0   35.36       0         0
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
LITHUANIA - Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 2129/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                                Disbursed
FY Approval  Company               Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic    Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic
2000 Drobe Wool                  6.1        0         0        0         0         0        0         0
1999 Ekranas                    10.9        0      2.02        0         0         0        0         0
1999 Margarino                  0.48        0        0         0      0.48         0        0         0
2000 Mediena                    1.25        0       1.5        0         0         0        0         0
1998 Superfos                   1.53        0        0         0      1.53         0        0         0
1999 Vilniaus Bankas             20         0        0         0         0         0        0         0
Total Portfolio:              40.2        0      3.52        0      2.01        0         0         0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan     Equity    Quasi    Partic
2000 Kartonas                     0         0     2000         0
2000 Lifosa                   25000         0    10000    10000
Total Pending Commnitment:       25000         0    12000    10000



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1. Time taken to prepare:      10 months
2. Prepared by:                Government of Lithuania with the assistance of
IBRD staff and consultants
3. Preparation Mission:        December 6-17, 1999
4. Appraisal Mission:          April 11-28, 2000
5. Negotiations                May 22-25, 2000
6. Planned Board Presentation:    July 2000
7. Planned date of Effectiveness:  July 2000



Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
Export Performance and Enterprise Restructuring in Lithuania
The Russia crisis is having a longer and deeper impact on economic activity in Lithuania
than in the other two Baltic nations because the delays in restructuring Lithuania's enterprises
have made them only partially able to compete in western markets. To study the impact of the
crisis and the degree to which firms have been able to redirect activity away from Russia, we
analyzed financial data regarding the top 90 non-financial (publicly owned) firms (ranked by
sales) as well as detailed export data.' The analysis suggests that firms are segmented into two
relatively distinct groups: those focused on serving western markets and those exporting to the
CIS (and a third group mainly domestically oriented).  Few firms are able to service both
markets, withi western dedicated firms better off than the other two groups.
According to the sample, the financial situation of the enterprise sector has deteriorated
sharply between June 1998 (just before the crisis hit) and September 1999. The number of
enterprises with a negative returns on equity (ROE) increased from less of one-fifth to more than
one-third of the sample (Annex 4 - Table 1). While in general Lithuanian companies are not
highly indebted, the number of companies in the most vulnerable group with the highest D/E ratio
has also increased sharply. At a more aggregate level, although most sectors have been affected,
firms in the trade/transport, construction and chemical/refinery sectors, whose markets are
believed to be mainly in the CIS or domestic, seem to have been affected the most. Even within
the same sector, the performance of companies was not equal: some continued to have excellent
results while others did not. We believe that one key factor that explains this differential
performance is the markets they are trying to service. Finally, the increasing financial distress of
companies suggests that they will not be able to raise the resources needed to restructure and
compete in new markets.
Annex 4 - Table 1: Financial Performance of Selected Lithuanian Firms
30-Sep-99           --
-         ~~~7%            12%              4%
ROE                     ~~~~~~~24%       13%             3%
0%  ..>.     $> W  .       - it 8%  11%             17%        36%*
-~~~-~~~-- ~~13%                         16%             8%         3~
ftOE   -     0<2%                l24%            19%              3%          %
2%              9%              7
The trade data also provide evidence of segmentation among firms. Annex table 2 shows export
growth rates by sector and region of destination during 1999. A negative correlation between CIS
and EU growth (or rest of the world (ROW) would suggest that firms are compensating for the
loss of CIS markets through increased exports to the EU (other OECD markets). But many
sectors show a positive correlation between CIS and EU growth rates, including in key sectors
such food and mineral products.
The data were provided by the Lithuanian Central Depository.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
Annex 4 - Table 2: Export Growth in 1999 by Product Group and Region of Destination
Categories   Product grup                              EU   CIS      Batics   Poland   ROW    Total
I-IV        Food products                             -19.4   -52.0      1.4     8.2      6.5    -27.5
V           Mineral ( nostly oil) products            -5.7    -68.6    -4.1      20.0    -12.3   -36.8
VI          Chernical products                        -11.3   -53.0   -28.6    68.2    39.1    -20.6
VII         Plastics, rubber products                 41.6    -18.0    1.4    -36.5   -33.0    -3.4
VEII        Skins, leather, fursldns, bags            25.1    -49.7   -41.0    76.6    352.2    0.7
IX          Wood and wood products                     15.7    -57.3   -45.0    -4.6     68.1      8.3
X           Pulp of wood, paper                       -28.4   -48.8    11.8    26.5    26.4    -25.4
Xl          Textiles and textile articles              9.2    -46.6   -17.8    45.5    -20.3    -0.3
XV          Base netals and products                  -11.6   -40.2   -36.7    78.2    28.6    -18.0
XVI         Machinery & electrical equiprent           9.8    -42.5   -25.4    18.3       6.8    -11.7
XVII        transport equipment                       63.6    -67.3    -9.8      24.2    48.4    -39.3
XX          Miscellaneous manufactured articles       50.4    -59.5    -1.1      6.4      85.9    22.6
_TOTAL                                     7.4    -57.0   -10.4    21.8       43      -17.9



PRIME MINISTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
Vilnius, May 30, 2000
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Since regaining our independence in 1990, we have pursued reforms with the ultimate
goal of moving from a centrally-planned to a market system, developing the supporting legal and
institutional framework, and thereby laying the foundations for sustained convergence of income
of our citizens towards western European levels. The main components of this reform program,
supported by the World Bank and the IMF, were: concerted stabilization; extensive liberalization
of domestic and foreign trade, financial markets and capital flows; far ranging privatization; a
series of new laws and institutions to create the conditions for new private business; and social
safety net enhancement.
We made significant progress towards macroeconomic stabilization, with modest
recorded fiscal deficits supporting a currency board introduced in April 1994. As a result, our
inflation rate has fallen to near zero, and we have enjoyed 7 years of exchange rate stability.
Progress in structural reform supported a restoration of growth in GDP and real wages starting in
1995, the latter in a setting of broadly stable relative poverty indicators. This progress, including
the completion of most privatizations and first generation sectoral reforms, was buttressed by a
World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), which we requested following a banking crisis
at the end of 1995. While we made good progress under the SAL, we realize that some of this
progress has been reversed, and that we need to do much more to complete our reform agenda,
especially in the context of future EU accession.
The remaining structural weaknesses in our economy were clearly revealed by the severe
external shock of the Russian crisis of August 1998. The resulting interruption of our economic
recovery showed our past growth to have been less sustainable than we had believed. Our
dependence on traditional export markets made us particularly vulnerable to such a shock, as
evident in a loss of around one-fifth of our exports. These developments were a particular threat
to our macro-financial sustainability. The pressures faced at that time are most evident in the
growth of our consolidated fiscal deficit from 1.7% of GDP in 1997 to 4.6% in 1998, and further
to 7.8% in 1999. This was primarily caused by increases in various extra-budgetary expenditures.
These developments have shown that past attempts to tackle difficult problems with
apparently low-cost methods offered no real solutions, but rather stored up even larger problems
for the future. While our recent decisive fiscal actions and supportive sectoral reforms have
reduced the short-run risks, we realize that much more is needed to make these changes
sustainable, and to promote the growth of living standards. For this reason, we have shifted to a
deeper, more comprehensive approach to sectoral reforms. These efforts will be the cornerstones
of our future economic program as discussed below.



2
The Government's Economic Program
Our medium-term economic program is summarized in this Letter and the attached
Policy Action Matrix, which focus on the various sectoral objectives, as well as on the key
policies that have already been or are to be implemented. The goals of the program are to restore
economic growth, reduce the vulnerability coming from high fiscal and current account deficits,
support sustained reduction of poverty, and ensure smoother integration into the EU Single
Market. The progradm to meet these goals works to strengthen budget management procedures,
deepen structural reforms in key sectors, and improve the environment for private sector
development. The focus is on measures which improve fiscal sustainability and strengthen the
economy's supply response. We request that the medium-term reform objectives or this reform
program be supported by the World Bank, through the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL), as well as through subsequent investment and sector loans, analysis and technical
assistance. We fully understand that subsequent World Bank lending will depend on adequate
progress on this overall reform program.
A. Returning to a Sustainable Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework
The macroeconomic framework of our reform program focuses on measures to reduce
imbalances described above, and to put our economy on a sustainable growth path. In support of
the shorter-term stabilization objectives of this program, we have reached agreement with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) on a 15-month precautionary Stand-By Arrangement (SBA)
effective January 1, 2000, for US$83 million (SDR 61.8 million). This SBA was approved by the
IMF Executive Board on March 8, 2000.
A detailed account of our stabilization program is provided in a Letter of Intent and the
Memorandum of Economic Policies submitted to the IMF in our request for the SBA in February
2000. This program focuses on the following measures for 2000: reducing the general
government fiscal deficit from about 7.8 percent of GDP in 1999 to no more than 2.8 percent in
2000; limiting the general government's flows of net lending and public and publicly guaranteed
external debt of different maturities; limiting its stocks of guarantees for domestic borrowing and
outstanding payment obligations; and setting a floor on net foreign exchange coverage of the
currency board arrangement. The program also includes commitments to maintain the currency
board arrangement, a floor on commercial bank reserves at the Bank of Lithuania, and no
accumulation of official external payments arrears. In addition, it includes structural benchmarks
centered on the areas of fiscal management, privatization and trade policy.
We are committed to maintaining an appropriate medium-term macroeconomic
framework for the duration of the program. To ensure that the economy will recover, and
subsequently remain on a path of sustainable growth, we will update our macroeconomic
program in close collaboration with the staff of the World Bank and the IMF. We will seek a
further reduction in our fiscal deficit while also striving to limit the overall tax burden. We are
also committed to maintain our recent freeze on implementation of the Savings Restitution Plan
(SRP) for at least the stated two year period. An important factor contributing to the success of
our fiscal program will be achievements we will be able to make in controlling extra-budgetary
spending, on-lending and contingent liabilities.



3
B. Structural and Institutional Reforms
To achieve the goals described above, we intend to accelerate the implementation of our
program of structural and institutional reforms, which will be focused on the five areas described
below. To better measure the impact of this program, and our progress in achieving the desired
outcomes, we have developed a set of monitorable indicators of stabilization and economic
restructuring, the evolution of which we will review with the World Bank in the second quarter
of 2001. The detailed description of the specific measures that the Government intends to take
over the course of the Program, and of their timing, is presented in the accompanying Policy
Action Matrix which is an integral part of this Letter.
B. ]. Strengthening Budget Management
The fiscal pressures which we have faced became particularly severe after the Russian crisis. We
adjusted to this pressure via three means. First, we allowed the cash deficit to grow, particularly
in extra-budgetary areas and in contingent liabilities to commercial entities. The resulting
unexpectedly high borrowing requirement in turn strained our debt management capacity.
Second, we were forced to make ad hoc cuts in expenditures, particularly in capital projects,
which cut the efficiency of our public spending. If left unaddressed, this can also jeopardize our
future ability to utilize EU grants and loans. Third, we began to accumulate large budgetary
arrears, reflecting our making of more financial commitments than we could reasonably meet.
These developments have adversely affected our economy. They have harmed our long-run
growth prospects by delaying enterprise restructuring, crowding out public and private
investments, and supporting incomes and employment in a costly fashion. Had we not taken
urgent measures to reduce such fiscal imbalances, the growing unpredictability of wage and
transfer payments could have threatened the well-being of less well-off members of our society.
This loss of fiscal control grew not only out of a more difficult environment and out of
gaps in our sectoral policies (which we address in other parts of this Letter), but also from
weaknesses in our processes and institutions of budget management. For this reason, we have
developed a comprehensive set of medium-term reforms targeted at the main weaknesses brought
out by our recent experience. At the same time, we are committed to a longer-term set of reforms
to our core budget processes to improve the effectiveness of public spending.
Recent unexpected commitments grew partly out of insufficient transparency and
comprehensiveness in our system of government finances and debt management. We are working
to further enhance the coverage and conceptual clarity of our government financial statements.
This will provide us with a more accurate measure of our fiscal position and our borrowing
capacity, and hence improve our awareness of exposure to different types of risks. We have
already consolidated most of the accounts of the strict budgetary sector, and we are now better
able to control the commitments and spending of most budget units. We have begun to develop
comprehensive financial statements providing aggregate information on the revenues and
expenditures, and financial assets and liabilities (including contingent) of all public entities,
using the European System of Accounts (ESA). We have formed a working group to begin
preparation of such accounts. Over the coming year, we will ensure that this group works
according to a satisfactory plan and timeline, and that it makes significant progress so as to allow
these accounts to be a full part of the 2002 budget process. In parallel, our Ministry of Finance
has established an action plan for mobilizing our existing but so far unoperational UNCTAD
(DMFAS) debt management system, including a detailed budget and timetable. This plan begins
with data entry and training in using this system. Subsequently, we will begin to implement this



4
plan, as well as to develop more advanced risk management techniques, particularly directed at
extra-budgetary and contingent areas.
We are concerned by the pressures we have faced to onlend to, or take over the debts of,
commercial enterprises. We are planning to tackle this problem by creating a clearer distinction
between public and private responsibility and by adjusting sectoral policies. We also realize that
part of this expansion relates to existing incentives. Our heavy reliance on cash budgeting has
created incentives tooveruse guarantees because of their postponed cash impact. The practice of
guaranteeing the full loan plus interest also means that the banks have little reason to examine the
quality of a guaranteed loan.
Our reform program works to change incentives to grant and apply for state loans and
guarantees. While the Seimas has already established a global limit for guarantees and on-lending
as part of the budget process, allocations within this limit could be made more efficiently. We are
tackling these issues through two channels. First, we will seek to regulate the volume and
composition of onlending and guarantees by application of state aids and competition policy
framework which we are adopting in the course of EU integration. We have presented to the
Seimas the draft Law on State Aid Monitoring. In accordance with that law, our Minister of
Finance will ensure that all proposals for guarantees to commercial activities coming before the
State Loan Commission are accompanied by a positive report from the Competition Council.
Starting with the 2001 budget, we will develop and implement guidelines which ensure a
declining level of guarantees to commercial activities except public projects of national
importance financed by international financial institutions as well as an increasing degree of risk
sharing by other parties. We will also develop classification and provisioning of guaranteed loans
and incorporate provisions and limits on new guarantees into our three-year budget projections.
Many of our fiscal pressures have originated in autonomous extra-budgetary public
entities. We believe that this partly reflects their unclear and/or poorly enforced responsibilities
to manage finances properly and avoid arrears, inadequate reporting and control structures, and
weak governance. Such entities often have looser limits than budget units on incurring debt,
holding separate accounts, and making unbacked commitments. Some have inappropriately high
levels of financial autonomy, including for direct borrowing from the banking system. As some
of these entities will remain outside the budget appropriation and Treasury structure, we need to
improve the governance structures defining their financial responsibilities, including their
obligations to balance their budgets and control commitments, and limits on taking loans and
guarantees.
Our reform program is aimed at bringing this fiscal activity under more control and
establishing sustainable devolved structures for public entities. We are working to bring some
funds facing financial difficulties under the tighter control of the Ministry of Finance. We
recently acted to prevent our Roads Fund from borrowing from the banking system, but believe
that a long-term solution must rest on a more comprehensive approach to such issues.
Under our reform program,. we have submitted to the Seimas a new Law on Budget
Structure which will end borrowing by appropriations managers, as well as by the numerous
extra-budgetary funds which we are integrating into the budget, ensuring that all such borrowing
is undertaken by the Ministry of Finance and that financing is carried out through budget
appropriations. We will ensure that these policies are in place and being implemented by June
2001. We are also committed to improve management of the borrowing of the remaining extra-
budgetary funds, beginning with SoDra. For this purpose, we will ensure that SoDra's 2001



5
budget includes more clear classifications as well as a binding borrowing limit is reviewed and
approved by our Minister of Finance before presentation to the Seimas. We will also pursue a
more wide-ranging set of reforms to improve our capacity to monitor borrowing by, and other
commitments of local governments, the Agri-Food Market Regulatory Agency (AFMIRA), SoDra,
and other public entities. To better control the accumulation of commitments which create hidden
burdens on future budgets, we will produce financing guidelines for the 2001 Public Investmnent
Program which ensure that projects which generate inadequate own revenues to repay a loan are not
financed through guaranteed borrowing.
We are committed to improving the planning and management of our core budget. To
this end, we have decided to move to improve our strategic planning and performance
measurement, and to strengthen incentives for efficiency. The development of program budgeting
is intended to ensure that all the resource costs of a program are measured and aggregated, and
that outputs are defined and valued.
These reforms are aimed at improving the conformity of the budget with the
government's policy priorities, enabling appropriation managers to use resources more flexibly to
achieve program objectives, and strengthening mechanisms for detecting the wasteful and
inefficient use of budget resources. Their successful implementation would promote the
harmonization of our public sector financial management with EU standards. We have already
taken steps to develop our Treasury system, with assistance from the IMF, EU and bilateral
donors. The Ministry of Finance has begun to define budget programs and develop a framework
within which the prioritization of programs can be considered. Three-year budgets are being
developed to allow longer-range planning. We have formed a 'Sunset Commission' to review
government programs with a view to close some of them down and terminate the activities of
institutions which do not serve essential purposes.
We will continue these reforms under the SAL-supported program. We will work to
make greater use of the three-year budget planning process to monitor and control commitments. In
the budget which we will present to the Seimas in late-2000, we will; a) initiate a process of
reducing the number of separate budget line items and consolidating expenditure allocations under
program headings; b) initiate a reduction in the number of appropriation managers; and c) require
ministries to propose and introduce performance measures for those programs where such measures
can most readily be developed.
To ensure that these reforms have their intended effect, we also need to reduce the need
to use cash rationing as a short-run control device, as this imposes an alternative set of
expenditure priorities to those determined in the budget. Addressing this issue requires the use of
conservative revenue forecasts at the planning stage, followed by a flexible adjustment of
appropriations when revenue shortfalls become apparent. Our reform program begins with
execution of 2000 budget. We are regularly analyzing the revenue outturn to date in 2000, to
determine whether budget appropriations can be fulfilled or whether a supplementary budget is
needed. We have also started developing procedures for undertaking an orderly response to
shortfalls of revenue relative to forecasts.
We have also introduced further reforms with the preparation of the 2001 budget. Our
Ministry of Finance has prepared a conservative revenue forecast for 2001, showing the
sensitivity of revenue to different GDP growth assumptions. It has analyzed the potential impact
of any major tax changes currently under consideration. We are more carefully scrutinizing



6
proposed Government decisions which have obvious budget implications, to ensure better
control of current and future commitments.
B.2. Continuing reform ofpensions and social assistance
We have a renewed commitment to accelerate and complete pension reform. We have
made some past progress in this sphere, including under the last World Bank SAL. This included
some needed reform of our pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) system, and the introduction of private
voluntary pensions, which took effect at the beginning of this year. However, implementation of
some measures has been slower than envisioned, in particular concerning the rate of increase in
retirement ages and the control of entitlements. As a result, we have not yet achieved our long
stated goal of covering all citizens with a basic level of support in old age.
Vigorous reforms are made more urgent by the significant contribution of the state
pension system to our recent fiscal imbalances, and hence to increased economic vulnerability.
We are particularly concerned by SoDra's increased reliance on costly borrowing from the
banking system, and by the spillover of pressures on the pension system to unemployment and
health insurance. As in other parts of our state sector, the pension system also began to exhibit
growing arrears.
Our pension reform program has two strands. One is preparation of a plan for more
fundamental reform, which among other options includes the possibility of introducing a
mandatory, funded "second pillar". As this will take time to implement, the program also
includes more urgent reforms of the existing system, which will be needed regardless of the final
form of our pension system.
As part of our shorter-term program, we increased contribution rates and assessable
wages with the 2000 budget. While we expect this to cut the immediate financial pressures on
our PAYGO system, we recognize that such ad hoc emergency measures may not be compatible
with achieving fiscal balance in an efficient and equitable way. These can work to limit growth
potential, combine existing incentives to receive compensation in illegal ways.
We are therefore revisiting the recent increases in contribution rates and assessable
wages to examine whether the same fiscal effects could be achieved in a less distortive and
burdensome manner. In addition, we are aware that even if near-term balance is restored, several
factors threaten to soon undo it. These include insufficient acceleration in retirement ages, lack
of clear indexation rules, and problems with disability criteria and determinations. To buttress
near-term balance, we have submitted to the Seimas draft amendments to current social insurance
law which change the rate of increase in retirement ages, treatment of working pensioners, and
rules for sickness benefit determination We have committed to adjust the delayed retirement
credit to an actuarially neutral level, once the results of a specially commissioned study become
available. We have approved legal amendments which introduce indexation of the basic pension
by the consumer price index, and will soon submit these to the Seimas. Our MSSL has also made
legal changes to clarify indexation rules for the supplementary pension, including to link this to
the lesser of the growth in average wages or the growth in the aggregate wage base actually
assessed by SoDra. We are committed to implement this full policy package, along with policies
which require employers to cover the cost of at least the first 5 days of sickness benefits, and
policies which improve disability criteria and certification procedures.



7
We have also begun or commissioned several important studies, including analyses of; the
current pension program's long term fiscal balance, including the possible need to increase
retirement ages, reduce contribution rates, and change existing laws to encourage longer work
and increased compliance; the fiscal and incentive effects of increases in contribution rates and
assessable wages, and withdrawing the supplementary pension from working pensioners; and the
disability caseload and changes in disability criteria and certification procedures.
We are aware that the success of these reforms depends on the administrative capacity to
implement them. SoDra suffers from many of the same problems as our other extra-budgetary
entities described in this Letter. These include inadequate information about revenues and
expenditures, inability to match commitments with available resources, and problems with
auditing, compliance and collection, and with governance. There is also a need to resolve the
respective administrative roles of MOF, SoDra and the State Tax Inspectorate (STI).
For these reasons, the STI and SoDra have initiated a review of contribution collection,
auditing and compliance to support increased cooperation in the short-terrn, and of the steps
necessary for eventual merger of all revenue and data collection, auditing and compliance.
Moving forward, we will establish a plan satisfactory to the World Bank which gives us more
effective information and control over SoDra revenues and spending, and which distinguishes
pension contributions and spending from other SoDra contributions and spending. We will also
require SoDra and the STI to submit a satisfactory time bound plan that moves contribution
auditing, compliance and collection responsibilities from SoDra to STI without putting existing
performance levels at risk, with the first practical steps in this cooperation to take place no later
than March 2001.
A comprehensively reformed pension system could improve the long-run efficiency of
our economy through its savings and domestic capital markets effects. For this reason, we are
accelerating our preparation of afundamental pension reform. We have chartered a high level
commission reporting to the Prime Minister, which is mandated to consider various options as to
how Lithuania might best provide a basic level of support in old age for all citizens. In particular,
this group will need to develop coherent policy proposals on the role of privately-managed
funded pensions in several contexts: as part of the mandatory social insurance law, as a means to
provide early retirement and other supplementary benefits in the state sector, and a means for
employers and workers in the private sector to create additional sources of retirement income.
Our initial focus is on process-related issues, as we do not wish to prejudge the findings of the
commission in choosing among acceptable alternative models.
We realize that this reform has to be carefully designed, prepared and implemented, and
will ensure that the proper balance between speed and quality is maintained. The commission has
developed a satisfactory action plan and realistic timetable for completion of an options paper to
include concrete proposals and enabling legislation. Once we have approved the concept, we
will ensure that further preparation continues according to an agreed timeline, involving
experienced advisors to guide fundamental choices. The World Bank review and input will be
important in ensuring a good outcome. By June 2001, we will submit to the Seimas a satisfactory
policy package that will achieve the goal of a basic level of support for all citizens and will
determine the role of privately-managed pension funds in the mandatory social insurance pension
system in Lithuania. We are also committed to establish policies to put early retirement and other
supplementary benefits in the state sector on a funded basis in the long-term and to facilitate the
creation of pension funds in the private sector for the same ends.



8
We are concerned that the recent external shocks and some of the reforms needed to
manage their economic effects may have negative short-run impacts on our more vulnerable
citizens. We need to better understand where these arise, and how well our social safety net
works to dampen the impacts of these and any similar future shocks. If we find obvious needs
for improvement in design or implementation, we will commence steps to mitigate these
weaknesses. One area of focus is our scheme for compensating qualifying households for
heating, hot and cold water tariffs. In 1998, we transferred the responsibility for its
administration and finance (along with additional budgetary funds) to our local governments. We
are working to prepare new social assistance legislation, which could introduce minor
modifications into the above system, and are considering a similar system for compensating
families for energy tariff increases.
The effectiveness of our full social assistance system will soon be evaluated under a
major EU Consensus project. In the intervening period, our reform program is focused on a more
limited set of measures to improve monitoring and evaluation, as a first step towards more
informed policy choices. As part of this program, we have started reforming reporting
requirements of local governments to ensure that information for proper monitoring and review
of the compensation and social benefit schemes is available. We have also established an annual
review of the system of compensating heating, hot water and cold water payments for poor
members of society to ensure it remains effective as the structure of the utilities and of energy
prices changes. We will follow these measures by completing assessments satisfactory to the
World bank of; the ability of social protection system to protect residents of areas with
significantly above average unemployment rates; and the adequacy of the new social assistance
system set forth in the Law on Social Assistance in Cash with respect to family income and
consumption as well as the targeting mechanism.
B. 3. Promoting Private Sector Development
We have made significant past progress on improving our private sector environment.
Nonetheless, we must do more to make our economic growth more dynamic and sustainable. The
large role of inadequately reformed enterprises contributed to our continued strong reliance on
exports to traditional markets, which made our economy more vulnerable to the Russian crisis
and contributed to the increase in the current account deficit. There is a particular need to
increase the efficiency of our economy, both to promote growth and to take the pressure off our
current account deficit. We are also concerned that restructuring has been delayed by the often
strong ties of traditional large enterprises to central and local governments, including in the form
of direct and indirect subsidies. These ties distort competition and hamper entry of new
enterprises. Many of the factors which most limit growth potential are the same ones which erode
our macro-financial sustainability, both directly through lower tax collections and indirectly by
promoting the excessive accumulation of liabilities by unprofitable companies, which then press
on our budget to assume these debts.
Our strategy for promoting an environment conducive to dynamic growth, macro-
financial stability and poverty reduction combines encouraging further restructuring of publicly
owned enterprises and privatized enterprises with creation of better conditions for the growth of
new enterprises, particularly of small and medium enterprises (SMEs). The reform program we
have developed for these purposes focuses on completing privatization, speeding up enterprise
restructuring, and removing impediments to new enterprise development. This will be
complemented by sector-specific programs in energy and agriculture described elsewhere in this
Letter.



9
Completing privatization in an efficient and transparent manner is central to our
enterprise reform agenda. We have been working with the World Bank as well as with the EU, to
enhance the speed and quality of our remaining companies on the privatization list. As we made
manifest by the successful privatization of Lithuanian Telekomas, it is crucial to follow several
key principles and to use established best practices when undertaking any significant
privatization. In the future, we will not start any privatization of the strategically important
enterprise until we have hired financial advisors and sales agents by means of open tenders and
have financed the needed retainer fees. We will also ensure that the privatization sales
themselves will be done on a competitive basis using transparent and open tenders, possibly
using limited pre-qualification criteria to ensure a high quality of potential bidders. Our
particular focus will be on three specific items on the privatization list: the Lithuanian Savings
Bank, Lithuanian Power Company and Lithuanian Gas. The latter two are defined later in this
Letter.
We have made significant advances in developing our banking system, including under
the previous World Bank SAL. Our operating banks are stronger and better supervised than
before, and fully comply with Bank of Lithuania (BOL) regulations. However, our agenda of
banking privatization remains to be completed. As a result, our banking system is not
contributing fully to promoting growth through savings mobilization, the financing of sound
investments, and the spurring of our enterprises to restructure. They are often too dependent on
the government as a client and/or guarantor, and thus do not offer adequate competition to banks
serving other market segments. Completing bank privatization is the key step in achieving a
stronger, more competitive and dynamic banking sector as well as in improving economic
sustainability.
We have already brought one of the two remaining large state banks, the Agricultural
Bank of Lithuania, to the point of sale, and are committed to ensuring its successful privatization.
We have now turned our focus to the Lithuanian Savings Bank (LSB). Its privatization will be
carried out in cooperation between the MOF and the State Property Fund (SPF). We have
approved the bank's privatization. EU funds are being used to hire consultants for due diligence
and financial restructuring plan, and an investment bank for its privatization. We are committed
to selling LSB to an international strategic buyer by an open international tender, with an
internationally reputed investment bank engaged throughout the process. We have prepared a
request for proposals, selection criteria and short list for hiring this investment bank. As the
privatization process advances, we will submit to the World Bank the following papers for its
review: the investment bank's privatization plan (including a time-bound restructuring plan), the
pre-qualification criteria for bidders, the criteria for the selection of a winning bid and a report on
the selection of the winning bid. We will then offer LSB for sale in a timeframe agreed with the
World Bank and IMF. Moreover, in the period while these banks remain in state ownership, we
are committed not to intervene directly in their commercial operations and lending decisions,
including the provision to offset any obligations to the state.
We are concerned by the remaining weaknesses and drawbacks in our system of tax
administration. The issue is not only one of fiscal consequences, but also of the negative effect
on the restructuring and development of our enterprises. As our tax authorities are major
creditors in bankruptcy proceedings, their more effective work could spur existing enterprises to
restructure. We are also concerned about public moods that our tax administration has been
arbitrary and unjust, particularly in reference to SMEs. We have already agreed with the IMF to
undertake specific tax reforms which simplify our tax system and make it more growth-



l0
promoting. We also agree with our State Tax Inspectorate (STI) that moving towards an
effective, fair and equitable tax administration requires a fundamental shift to a comprehensive
voluntary compliance approach. We realize that this first step must be followed by concerted
efforts to strengthen institutions and procedures.
To this end, we have taken a policy decision to adopt a voluntary compliance approach to
taxation by approving the Strategic Plan of the STI for 2000-2001. We have also decided to
implement the tax administration improvement program initiated by STI. To meet our
commitment to make clear progress on its implementation, we will include adequate resources
for this purpose in the 2001 budget. In parallel, we will prepare and approve amendments to
decrees relevant to the implementation of the Strategic Plan and the tax administration
improvement program as well as the development and submission to the Seimas relevant
legislation amendments to the Seimas. These reforms will also support the greater cooperation,
and possibly eventual merger, with SoDra described elsewhere in this Letter. Finally, the reforms
to bankruptcy procedures described below would provide the STI with the tools and authority to
pursue debt collection, bankruptcy and liquidation for delinquent enterprises.
Another area which requires our urgent attention is the framework for corporate
governance. We have made some past progress here, including strengthening of auditing rules for
some companies and banks, the legal and regulatory framework for the stock exchange, and the
Civil Code. Nonetheless, we are concerned about remaining weaknesses which hamper enterprise
restructuring. Poor corporate governance seriously limits the ability of our enterprise sector to
raise financing, It also facilitates asset stripping, and thereby lower profitability and enterprise
savings. Weaknesses in accounting and auditing have contributed to macroeconomic
vulnerability by making it easier to hide problems in enterprise balance sheets. This can lead to
excess borrowing by insolvent enterprises, followed by pressures on us to take over bad loans
when these enterprises fall into difficulty.
Our reform program to address these weaknesses focuses on the key areas of auditing,
accounting and the rules and regulations of the Lithuanian Securitieis Commission (LSC). We
have submitted to the Seimas amendments to the Law on Companies to require audit of all joint
stock companies - with the exception of small, private companies - by auditors qualified in
accordance with the Law on Audit. With assistance from EU PHARE, and in close consultation
with private sector stakeholders and the World Bank, we are committed to submitting to the
Seimas a new accounting law based on IAS and EU directives, which establishes a general
requirement of accounting and financial reporting based on these standards and directives, but
which leaves the preparation and approval of accounting standards to a private sector driven
body. We are supporting the Lithuanian Securities Commission (LSC) to strengthen our
securities market. The LSC is preparing proposals to ensure its independence, to improve the
preconditions for its effective supervision of the Lithuanian Stock Exchange (LSE), the
transparency and discipline of the LSE, and shareholder rights. We will approve and submit to
Seimas proposals to amend legislation, and approve amendments to decrees and decisions in
relation to such proposals.
In spite of our past attempts to improve our enterprise bankruptcy and restructuring
mechanisms, especially their legal basis, we are unsatisfied with their effectiveness. Remaining
gaps in the legal framework are compounded by limits to our capacity to implement these laws.
We also lack an intermediate restructuring option between doing nothing and full liquidation,
which could lead to the costly liquidation of viable firms. We recognize that the lack of a well-



I'
functioning framework deters our authorities and enterprises from using the existing
mechanisms. This encourages weak enterprises to lobby for state support, thereby avoiding
restructuring while putting pressure on our state finances. The failure of such enterprises to
release physical resources and their excessive demand for financial resources has also hampered
the development of new firms with greater potential.
Our reform program aims to accelerate such procedures. We have recently submitted a
new draft Bankruptcy Law to the Seimas. In close consultation with the World Bank and IMF,
we also revised the new draft legislation on enterprise restructuring to be in line with
international best practice and consistent with our overall commercial legal framework, and are
ready to consider this in the Cabinet and then present to Seimas. Where the Government is a
major owner or creditor, we will take determined actions to ensure expedient liquidation of
companies with little or no chance of survival. These legal changes will be followed by concerted
efforts to facilitate their implementation. For this purpose, we are developing an action plan to
remove key institutional bottlenecks, and will begin to implement this well before June 2001.
While our business conditions have generally improved, we recognize that business in
Lithuania remains too heavily regulated. Our rules and regulations are often too complex,
unstable and contradictory. These barriers are a particular burden on our SMEs. We believe that
deregulation and removal of bottlenecks and creation of equal business conditions for all can be
an effective way to spur growth. By raising the profitability of enterprises, hence private savings,
this could also contribute to lower current account deficits.
To this end, we have formed a 'Sunrise Commission' charged with developing options to
improve the business climate. Its mandate includes the issues of access to land and the sale and
movement of goods, which we have identified as being particularly important. To facilitate land
acquisition and administration, we have amended Government resolutions to set a deadline for
submitting land restitution claims, speed up procedures for the sale and lease of publicly-owned
land, lower fees for such transactions, and by allow the sale of some state-owned land without
auction. These measures will be followed by preparation and presentation to the Seimas of legal
amendments, and by amendments to decrees to further facilitate the processing of remaining
restoration claims, and streamlining the registration of land, buildings and mortgages.
To improve conditions for the sale and movement of goods, we have prepared and
proposed to the Seimas amendments or new legislation which might reduce the number of sectors
restricted to domestic investment and eliminate inequalities between domestic and foreign
residents in setting licensing fees. We are committed to prepare and propose similar legal
changes to eliminate excessive and unnecessary bureaucracy, and excessively high licensing fees.
B. 4. Restructuring and Privatizing the Energy Sector
Reform of our energy sector, particularly the power and gas industries, is one of our top
policy priorities. In 1995-1998, we made important progress in developing a strategy for the
sector and addressing some of its most deep-seated problems. This included; establishment of an
energy pricing commission with substantial autonomy; decisive action to tackle the energy
arrears of public authorities, transfer of the district heating industry from the Lithuanian Power
Company (LPC) to local authorities, tentative steps towards preparing restructuring and
privatization plans for the power and gas industries; and adoption of International Accounting
Standards by the main energy companies. However, past political inaction has prevented us from
achieving the full benefit of these reforms. Furthermore, despite stated Ministerial intentions,



12
little restructuring has occurred in the sector, apart from the partial privatization of Ma2eikiq
Nafta.
We are accelerating these reforms for two reasons. First, we know that this sector has
long been the source of many of our fiscal problems. Our recent budget deficits were fueled by
the legacy of these problems through our takeover of commercial debt of energy utilities, direct
government loans which were not repaid, and State guarantees which were called. The
accumulation of fiscal liabilities reflects the attempts of past governments to protect the
population from the consequences of rises in basic energy costs. Specifically, Ministerial
intervention delayed price increases for electricity and gas while promoting the export of power
to Belarus as a device to subsidize domestic tariffs. Unfortunately, the inability of Belarus to pay
back resulted in our additional losses.
Second, the sector remains generally unreformned, as reflected in energy costs which
exceed levels that might reflect efficient operation. It has been sheltered from competition as it
has been run as a vertically integrated monopoly. We realize that the inefficiency of the energy
sector negatively affects the competitiveness of downstream sectors. It also has a significant
impact on the living conditions of the population, particularly the poor.
Our sectoral reform program has several medium-tertn objectives. It aims to establish a
competitive framework, wherever possible, unbundle the sector to create the incentives for cost
reduction; enhance the sector's competitiveness prior to EU Accession, by increasing private
participation; control the impact of energy costs on the budgets of poor households; and place all
energy activities on a commercial and financially sound footing.
To achieve these aims, we will work to consolidate the progress we have already
achieved, establish a clear vision of the ultimate structure and ownership for the sector, and make
irreversible moves towards the implementation of the selected structures. This will in turn work
to ensure that the State budget will be insulated from further erosion by energy company deficits,
incentives will have been put in place for decreasing energy costs and prices through efficiency
gains, and poverty reduction will be supported by mechanisms which support long-run least cost
energy supply.
We are vigorously pushing forward the broad sectoral strategy which began with the
adoption of market models for natural gas and electricity. In making this choice, our main goals
were to maximize efficiency gains, and to ensure consistency with dominant models in EU
countries. We have submitted to the Seimas a draft Energy Law providing for market
liberalization starting January 2001. A draft Law on Gas provides for a similar liberal
framework, building on the existing liberal regime in effect since 1993. We are aware that our
atypical balance between power supply and demand poses special problems in the development
of a market, which adds weight to the arguments in favor of a Common Baltic Electricity Market
(CBEM). We are studying this strategy together with the Governments of Latvia and Estonia in
the hopes that broadening the size of the market would increase the prospects for competition
and, hence, efficiency gains. To this end, we have established joint working groups to
recommend upon the necessary technical, economic, institutional and financial issues related to
the CBEM. Under the program, these groups will complete their work by establishing a time-
bound action plan to fully meet EU directives on market liberalization.
The next step in our reform program is restructuring of LPC and Lithuanian Gas (LG),
consistent with the chosen market model. This will begin with unbundling. By July 1, 2000, LPC



13
will have established generation, transmission and distribution businesses as (often several) separate
profit centers with their own accounts and clearly identified transmission and distribution service
prices. We have also established a plan for a competitive market for generation. Similarly, LG has
established its LPG business as a separate profit center with its own set of accounts. We are
committed to establishing the profit centers of LPC as separate companies by February 1, 2001,
with a regulated (and at least initially State-owned) LPC responsible for transmission and the
operation of the national grid. We will also prepare the Trading Rules and Grid Code and submit
them to the Bank. In addition, LG is committed to separate its LPG business in a manner consistent
with EU principles. These measures will support the privatization of both utilities.
We recognize that by using proper procedures, the introduction of private capital will
not only bring operational efficiencies, but also put downward pressure on prices, enabling our
downstream industries to become more competitive. To ensure that our country derives
maximum benefit from privatization, we will adopt a number of supporting measures. Under our
reform program, we are firmly committed to use transparent and competitive international
tenders when private participation in State-owned energy companies is being invited. To advise
us in preparing and managing these offers, we will hire reputable international investment banks
to participate in all aspects of the privatization.
We have taken Cabinet decisions to begin the privatization process of LPC and LG.
These companies are and will remain under the control of our Ministry of Economy, which
invited tenders for the selection of privatization advisors. The Requests for Proposals, criteria for
selection of investment banks, and proposed short-lists were submitted to the World Bank for
review. We have since chosen these investment banks, hired the bank for LPC, and begun to hire
the advisor for LG. As the privatization of these two firms advances, we will submit the
privatization plans, pre-qualification criteria for bidders, the criteria for selection of a winning
bid, and a report on the selection of the winning bid to the World Bank for its review and
approval. In the case of LPC, we will begin by offering for sale at least 51% of distribution assets
to solid international strategic investors. While this may not occur before June 2001, our longer
term aim is to privatize some key generation assets. In contrast, LG will be sold in toto as it is
adequately regulated and too small to be sold in parts. We are committed to offer for sale at least
41% of LG to international strategic investors, in addition to the 8% already in non-state
ownership. The described offers for sale will be completed by no later than June 2001.
We need to improve governance and management in LPC and LG, especially while we
retain a majority stake in these firms. The roles of the Government and commercial enterprises
need to be separated to eliminate political and direct governmental involvement in commercial
decision-making. To this end, we have established a new and more appropriate governance
structure in LPC, including members of the Supervisory Boards of LG and the Governing Board
of LPC from outside of the Government and the company. This should enhance the commercial
outlook and to increase the impartiality of these Boards. We have since taken additional steps to
clarify this new structure. This includes giving clear and well demarcated terms of reference to
each institution, and complementing these structures with internal Management Boards to assist
the Directors General of these two companies. We have amended laws, other regulations and the
Statutes of LPC and LG, to require our Minister of Economy to set out appropriate terms of
reference and working procedures for the Supervisory Board of LG and the Supervisory and
Governing Boards of LPC. We will then agree financial targets and investment criteria with the
Boards of LPC and LG. We will also ask the Directors General and Management Boards of LPC
and LG to prepare a corporate strategy to be reviewed and approved by the Supervisory Board.



14
This strategy would address the long-term role, cost cutting, investment plans and quality of
supply criteria, including accountability.
We believe that establishment of a more reliable legal and regulatory environment is an
essential step to sustain progress in other aspects of energy policy. It will be most important to
support new structural and ownership models and to protect the public interest, as it will
influence revenues from sale of state assets, the prices paid by consumers, and the degree of
efficiency improvement. To recast our legal environment, we have begun to update laws for
electricity, gas and district heating. The resulting legal framework must meet EU Directives on
energy, and also maximize the revenues from privatization. We are committed to enactment of an
acceptable electricity law, a gas law, and a district heating law by March 30, 2001.
Our regulatory reform focuses on strengthening the independence and capacity of our
National Control Commission for Prices and Energy Activities (EPC). As part of this program,
we have prepared a timetable for introducing legal and other changes needed to establish a
system for the financing of the EPC which is independent of the State budget or of Government
decision, and sent this to the World Bank. We have also made changes to allow EPC to instigate
price reviews on its own initiative, and changed the statutes and procedures of LPC and LG to
ensure that tariff proposals are delivered to EPC in a timely manner. We will establish a system
for the financing of the EPC which is independent of the State budget or of Government decision.
We will also complete the regulatory environment for energy by March 30, 2001, by extending
the powers of EPC to include the licensing and supervision of operators, norms for the trading of
power and gas, service quality, consumer protection and other responsibilities.
Finally, our program is directed at assuring the continuedfinancial stability of the sector.
We recognize that the financial positions of LPC, and to a lesser extent LG, have been critical.
This is caused by the past failure of prices to rise in line with costs, and in the case of LPC by the
decision to export power to Belarus. Price increases for electricity and gas took effect January 1,
2000, which should fully cover costs in 2000. However, we realize that the financial position of
these utilities may deteriorate further (particularly regarding immediate debt servicing needs)
unless additional actions are taken. We are also concerned that without assurances of prices
which produce a reasonable return on shareholder equity, LPC and LG will not be able to attract
private investment. We therefore aim for energy utilities to be able to fully service financing
needs without recourse to Government support, for prices to reflect efficient use of capital
attracting private investors, and for revised pricing incentives to reduce some energy prices.
Our reform program begins with financial restructuring of LPC. To cover its immediate
debt servicing needs, LPC has initiated conversion of short-term debt to longer-term maturity. By
June 2001, LPC will have eliminated its short-term debt, with the exception of working capital
needs. In parallel, we are reforming pricing criteria. While we cannot intervene directly in EPC
decisions, we can stipulate its pricing criteria. We have begun to assess these criteria for LPC
and LG, especially as to consistency with attraction of private investors and establishing
incentives for downward price pressures. We are committed to initiate the changes in legal
framework required to implement the change in pricing criteria, and then to implement these
criteria.
B. 5. Reforming Agriculture
We have made progress in reforming our agricultural sector, including under SAL 1. We
recognize, however, that some of this progress was eroded after the Russian crisis which caused a



'5
decrease of prices in our traditional markets. The resulting increase in government expenditure
and indebtedness related to this sector contributed to our recent fiscal pressures. Looking over a
longer horizon, this sector faces major challenges in relation to our accession to the EU, both
directly through our need to harmonize with EU requirements, and indirectly through the need to
improve competitiveness so that accession goes smoothly and our rural economy benefits
maximally from these changes. We are concerned that these reforms can further accelerate the
ongoing employment shakeout in agriculture, making it more important than ever to remove
barriers to the development of non-agricultural activity in our rural areas.
Our reform program tackles the issues of fiscal sustainability, agricultural efficiency and
rural development. It focuses on reforming the support system in agriculture, reducing
expenditures, and redirecting resources to activities supporting and promoting increases in farrn
productivity rather than subsidizing less efficient farmers. It also supports private sector
development through the removal of crucial bottlenecks, by working to protect government
support for productivity enhancement (ability to supply counterpart funds, investment support
programs). We will ensure that these reforms are consistent with our obligations in adopting the
EU "acquis communautaire" as well as our intentions ofjoining the WTO.
Our most immediate challenge in the agricultural sphere is enhancing fiscal transparency
and sustainability. The traditional budgetary pressure from this sector became especially evident
after the Russian crisis. This reflected both lower than expected revenues and higher than
expected financial commitments for market regulation and export subsidy programs. As in our
overall state finances, these pressures were also evident in the extra-budgetary sphere, for
example, in the greater than planned operating losses of our Agri-Food Market Regulation
Agency (AFMRA).
Initially, we adjusted to these pressures through higher expenditures, financed partly
through transfers from our Privatization Fund, and partly through borrowing. Later, we focused
our adjustment efforts on limiting expenditures. First, we were pressured to make reallocations
within our farm budget, away from needed support to investment programs towards programs
such as direct subsidies which delay efficiency enhancement. Second, we began to accumulate
budgetary arrears, reflecting both the higher commitments and the large volume of budgetary
resources not transferred to the Rural Support Fund. The accumulation of arrears has also forced
us to make major downward adjustments in our agricultural programs for 2000.
We have introduced a cap on market regulation and income support expenditures in the
2000 budget; worked to control unplanned budgetary commitments, and revised the existing
sugar market regulation regime which has caused big financial difficulties. We are committed to
sustain such measures in the future. To improve predictability of program costs, we will shift
towards decoupled support measures by introducing EU-consistent financial safeguards for
implementation of support measures (such as base area and animal numbers).
Fiscal pressures have grown out of weaknesses in implementation capacity, particularly
at AFMRA. Correcting these problems is crucial in the context of EU accession, as our access to
EU funds will be restricted by weaknesses in financial control. Our reform program focuses on
improving the operational and financial performance of AFMRA and moving it toward what will
be needed for EU intervention operations. To this end, we have submitted to the World Bank a
plan to restructure AFMRA's governance and operational procedures, introduce stricter financial
control and auditing procedures, and prohibit the expansion of its activities beyond that of
Government approved intervention programs. We are committed to making substantial progress



16
in implementing this plan by June 30, 2001. In addition, we are working to ensure that AFMRA
can operate within a limited allocation from the agriculture budget by designing intervention
policies and AFMRA operations in a way that budget costs are minimized.
To protect the core function of the Rural Loan Guarantee Fund (RLGF), we will remove
the Government loan guarantees for AFMRA from the RLGF so that guarantees to AFMRA are
operated on the same basis as other Government loan guarantees, beginning with the 2001
budget. To facilitate the implementation of EU SAPARD programs, we will revise the statutes of
the RLGF to broaden the range of clients eligible for its guarantees and, accordingly, increase the
loan reserves. Within the framework of EU integration, we will introduce the financial planning,
accounting, and control procedures required by the EU for the administration of pre-accession
funds by the National Paying Agency.
The weak competitiveness of our farming sector has long been evident. The potential for
further quality enhancement was revealed by the Russian crisis. The resulting difficulty of our
producers to shift sales to new markets meant that the collapse of traditional markets brought a
severe economic contraction. Improved farm productivity would raise competitiveness of
agriculture crucial for long-term increases in rural living standards, for ensuring smooth EU
accession and for reducing economic vulnerability.
We realize that efficiency enhancement could be promoted by increased stability and
consistency of our policy settings, including for market regulation and income support programs.
This would create a more conducive environment for enterprises in the sector to make sound
decisions on activities and investments. Increased certainty would also improve access to
financial resources. Such stability would be promoted by a well-articulated medium-term policy
strategy, and by timely announcement of prices for the following year.
The program aims to promote stability in design and implementation of national policies
and consistency in their evolution toward EU support policies, implementation mechanisms, and
monitoring and control procedures. To this end, and consistent with the Law on State Regulation
of Economic Relations in Agriculture, we have prepared and submitted to the World Bank a
detailed short-term action plan for the agricultural policy and market regulation measures for
2000 programs, including the supporting legal framework, institutional structures, monitoring
and financial control procedures, and estimated cost and sources of financing. We are committed
to maintain these measures, and to further specify and introduce measures to implement a
medium-term strategy, including on the institutional front the full implementation of parcel and
crop declaration and animal identification and registration systems.
We recently approved and announced the comprehensive set of new policy and market
regulation measures for 2000 programs and are committed to ensure stability and continuity of
measures throughout the year. To avoid a similar delay next year, we will approve and announce
the analogous measures for 2001 by June 1, 2000, as stipulated by Law on State Regulation of
Economic Relations in Agriculture. We also took the fundamental step of eliminating price
subsidies for grains and milk and ensuring that market regulation measures (such as MMPP,
target and intervention prices, if used) are set below the world market price levels not to distort
the market and to enable private transactions. We will refrain from introducing new measures
that have distorting effect, relying instead on safety net measures that provide limited and
infrequent intervention.



17
To improve the implementation and monitoring of national agricultural policies and
facilitate administration of current and future EU support programs, we need to strengthen
implementation capacity. To his end, we will reform the national and regional agricultural
administration, including subordination of regional agricultural officers to the MOA and
adoption of EU-required planning, accounting and control procedures.
The improvement of efficiency in agriculture makes it urgent to raise competitiveness in
the agri-food sector..and the vitality of the rural economy. Our program tackles these issues by
working to remove specific bottlenecks to development in rural areas. One crucial focus is on
strengthening the legal basis and functioning of our rural land markets, which is hampered by
restrictions on agricultural land ownership by legal entities and on its use for other purposes,
including generating non-farm employment. As part of our program, we have approved and
submitted to the Seimas amendments to the Land Law to remove constraints on the use of
agricultural land for alternative purposes. We will also submit to the Seimas a constitutional
amendment and laws to permit agricultural land ownership by domestic legal entities, and the
draft Consolidation Act designed to facilitate land consolidation and discourage further
fragmentation in agricultural holdings.
We are also working to restructure and increase the competitiveness of our agri-food
industry, which still has numerous troubled enterprises. We are concerned not cnly about the
resulting pressure for budgetary support, but also about efficiency factors. Higher quality of farm
produce and less distorting market regulations will improve competitiveness of the industry in
domestic and external markets. As part of our program, we have submitted to the Seimas draft
amendments to the Law on Shareholding Companies to eliminate restrictions on circulation of
farmer shares in the agri-food industry. We are also phasing in higher quality standards. Despite
pressures to delay, we are fully implementing the stricter raw milk quality standards which we
announced on January 1, 2000. We are committed to follow this by making adequate progress on
the National Acquis Adoption Program for the development and implementation of quality
requirements and restructuring of the food quality control system. Throughout this program, we
will work to more strictly enforce bankruptcy procedures and avoid direct or indirect bailouts of
troubled enterprises. We will work to ensure the national co-financing of SAPARD and the
continuation of investment and rural development programs within the agricultural budget. To
ensure adequate resources for these programs, we will limit the element going to interest rate
subsidies to the level in the planned 2000 budget.
Yours sincerely,
Andrius Kubilius
Prime Minister
James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank group



Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
Key Policies and Reforms
By Board presentation                          By second tranche (expected June 2001)
Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework                   Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework
1)  Maintenance  of  an  appropriate  medium-term   1)  Maintenance   of  an  appropriate   medium-term
macroeconomic framework.                              macroeconomic framework.
Budget management                                     Budget management
1) Submit to Seimas Law on Budget Structure which ends  1) Satisfactory plan and concrete timeline for introduction of
borrowing by appropriation managers and ensures that all  comprehensive financial statements in the documentation for
borrowing by budget units is undertaken by the Ministry of  budget planning and execution, followed by satisfactory
Finance and financing is carried out through budget  progress in implementation.
appropriations.
2) Beginning with the 2001 budget, develop and implement
2) Preparation by the Ministry of Finance of a revenue forecast  guidelines which ensure a declining level of guarantees to
for 2001, showing the sensitivity of revenue to different GDP  commercial activities except public projects of national priority
growth assumptions, and  the potential impact of any tax  financed by international financial institutions, as well as an
changes currently under consideration.                increasing degree of risk-sharing by other parties.
3) Development of procedures for undertaking an orderly  3) Improve capacity to monitor borrowing by, and other
response to shortfalls of revenue relative to forecasts.  commitments of, all public entities, including (1) local
governments, (2) AFMRA, (3) SoDra, and (4) other public
entities.
Pension reform/social assistance                      Pension reform/social assistance
1) Government submits to Seimas draft amendments to  1) Government provides evidence that pension policies
current social insurance law, satisfactory to the World Bank,  satisfactory to the Bank are in place that (a) help achieve
that adjust the rate of increase in retirement ages, treatment  fiscal balance in the short-term, and increase certainty in
of working pensioners, sickness benefit rules and other  benefit adjustments and (b) that the Seimas has been
appropriate measures directed to achieving fiscal balance in  provided with analyses of the current law pension program's
the short-term.                                       long term  fiscal balance, including options for possible
increases in retirement ages and possible reductions in
2) Provide to the Bank: (a) evidence that a working group  contribution rates and changes to and under existing law to
has been chartered reporting to the Prime Minister to  encourage longer work and increased compliance; and (c)
develop proposals as to how Lithuania might best provide a  introduce improved disability  criteria and certification
basic level of support in old age for all citizens and that  procedures.
comprehensively addresses the role of voluntary and
mandatory funded pensions in Lithuania in both the state  2) Submission to Seimas of a satisfactory policy package that
and private sector; and (b) an action plan and realistic  will achieve the goal of a basic level of support for all
timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, for the completion of an  citizens and that determines the role of privately-managed
options paper that includes concrete proposals and enabling  funded pensions in the mandatory social insurance pension
legislation addressing these matters.                 system in Lithuania.
3) Submission of satisfactory evidence that policies are in
place to put early retirement and other supplementary
benefits in the state sector on a funded basis in the long-term
and that facihtate the creation of funded pensions in the
private sector for the same ends.
Private sector development                            Private sector development
1) For new privatizations, firm and binding commitment by   1) For new privatizations starting June 2000, the Government
the Government to; engage financial advisors and sales  will engage financial advisors and sales agents, as required,
agents, as required, using open tenders; finance needed  using open tenders; finance needed retainer fees; and use
retainer fees; and use transparent and open sales procedures.  transparent and open sales procedures.
2) For the privatization of Lithuanian Savings Bank (LSB),  2) The government to offer LSB for sale to a strategic buyer
the Government will select and hire an internationally  using an open, international bidding process.
reputed investment bank, following best practices, to sell
control of the LSB to a reputable private shareholder  3) Submit to the Seimas a new accounting law based on IAS
banking institution, using transparent and open bidding  and EU directives, which establishes a general requirement
sales procedures. The Government will contract with the  of accounting and financial reporting based on these
investment bank, inter alia, that its privatization plan to be  standards and directives, but which leaves the preparation
submitted to the Government will include a time-bound  and approval of accounting standards to a private sector
restructuring plan or plans for LSB.                  driven body. The draft law should be finalized in close
consultation with private sector stakeholders and the World
3) Submit to the Seimas amendments to the Law  on  Bank.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Companies to require audit of all joint stock companies -
with the exception of small, private companies - by auditors  4) Submit the new legislation on enterprise restructuring,
qualified in accordance with the Law on Audit.           satisfactory to the Bank, to Seimas.
4) In close consultation with the Bank and IMF, revise new
draft legislation on enterprise restructuring to be in line with
international best practice and consistent with overall
commercial legal framework and therefore satisfactory to
the Bank, and submit to Cabinet.
Energy sector reform                                     Energy sector reform
1) Select the market model for power and gas, consistent  1) Government to offer for sale at least 51%  of LPC's
with EU Directives and submit to the Seimas.             distribution assets through an open international tender to
international strategic investors.
2) Lithuanian Power Company (LPC) to establish
generation, transmission, distribution as separate profit  2) Government to offer at least 41% of LG for sale through
centers with their own set of accounts and clearly identified   an open international bidding process to an international
transmission and distribution service prices. A plan will be  strategic buyer.
established for a competitive market for generation.
3) Complete the regulatory environment for energy by
3) The government will hire a reputable international  extending the powers of the National Control Commission
investment bank to undertake the privatization of  LPC   for Prices and Energy Activities (EPC) to include the
using an open, international tender.  The Request for  licensing and supervision of operators, norms for the trading
Proposals, criteria for selection and short list will be sent to  of power and gas, service quality, consumer protection and
the Bank for review and will be satisfactory to the Bank.  other responsibilities.
4) The government will issue a Request for Proposals to
hire a reputable international investment bank to undertake
the privatization of Lithuanian Gas (LG) using an open,
international tender. The Request for Proposals, will be sent
to the Bank for review and will be satisfactory to the Bank.
Agricultural reform                                      Agricultural reform
1) Introduce measures to restrict budget expenditures on   I) Maintain measures taken prior to the first tranche; and
market regulation and income support and thereby shift  shift towards decoupled support measures, by introducing
some of the risk of decreases in market prices away from   EU-consistent financial safeguards for implementation of
the government, including setting a budget cap on such  support measures (such as base area and animal numbers for
expenditures,  elimination  of  (budgetary)  open-ended   administration  of  direct payments)  that reduce  the
commitments/ refrain from introducing others, and ensuring   unpredictability of program costs.
that sugar market regulation mechanisms are self-financing.
2) Adopt measures to improve operational and financial  2) Restructure the AFMRA  governance and operational
performance of the Agri-Food Market Regulatory Agency   procedures, including stricter financial control and auditing.
(AFMRA) and move it toward what will be needed for EU
intervention operations, including: a) submit to the bank a
plan to restructure governance and operational procedures,
introduce stricter financial control and auditing procedures,
and prohibit the expansion of its activities beyond that of
Government approved intervention programs; and b) ensure
that AFMRA can operate within a limited allocation from
the agriculture budget by designing intervention policies
and the AFMRA operations in a way that costs to the budget
are minimized.
3) Eliminate price subsidies for grains and milk and ensure  3) Maintain the measures taken prior to the first tranche and
that market regulation measures, if used, are set below the  specify and introduce measures to implement a medium-term
world market price levels not to distort the market and to  strategy, including  on  the  institutional front the full
enable private transactions. Refrain from introducing new   implementation of parcel and crop declaration and animal
measures that have distorting effect, relying instead on  identification and registration systems.
safety net measures that provide limited and infrequent
intervention.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 1 of 15)
MediumnTerm Maroeconomic Framework'
Objective: Adopting and maintaining a sustainable macroeconomic framework to support stable growth and poverty reduction
BENCHMARKS'
Current Status/Key Challenges                  By June 2000                               By June 2001                             Outcome
Following the Russian crisis,    Maintenance of an appropriate medium-      Maintenance of an appropriate medium-      Recovery in economic growth,
Lithuania experiences a deep     term macroeconomic framework.              term macroeconomic framework.              including visible poverty impact
recession, collapsing foreign trade,
growing extemal imbalances and   Agree with the World Bank and begin to     Positive review of indicators of stabilization,    Signs of accelerated economic
rising public debt fueled by fiscal  monitor indicators of stabilization, economic    economic restructuring, and the poverty impact  restructuring
expansion. This heightens economic  restructuring and poverty reduction against  of the Govemment's program.
vulnerability.                   which to measure the impact of Govemment's                                             Decline in extemal imbalances and
program of stabilization and structural reforms.                                     vulnerability to shocks
A. Budjte Mangamt:--..-
A.1. Objective: Enhancing transparency through increasing the comprehensiveness of government accounts and debt management
While the government has a clear  Formation of working group to prepare     Satisfactory plan and concrete timeline for  Improved awareness of the
picture of core budget outturns and    comprehensive govemment accounts giving  introduction of comprehensive financial  govemment's exposure to different
direct liabilities, it is less aware of    aggregate information on the revenues and  statements in the documentation for budget   types of risks, and of the relationship
its consolidated position and its  expenditures, and assets and liabilities  planning and execution, followed by       between off-budget activities and the
exposure to off-budget and       (including contingent) of all public entities.  satisfactory progress in implementation.  budget constraint.
contingent liabilities.
Adopt action plan, including detailed budget  Successful implementation of debt management
and timetable, for full implementation of  strengthening action plan.                Public liabilities effectively
existing UNCTAD (DMFAS) debt management                                               monitored, including for potential
system.                                                                              budget impact of contingent liabilities.
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 2 of 15)
A.2. Objective: Changing incentives for exposure to financial risks arising from commercial activities
BENCHMARKS'
Current Status/Key Challenges                  By June 2000                               By June 2001                             Outcome
Part of the accumulation of      Finalize and present to Seimas the draft Law on   Beginning with the 2001 budget, develop and   Enhanced compliance with the
exposure to commercial entities  State Aid Monitoring.                      implement guidelines which ensure a        principles governing state aid in the
grew out of existing incentives,                                            declining level of guarantees to conunercial    European Union.
reflecting less stringent limits and                                        activities except public projects of national  The p
screening procedures relative to  Minister of Finance to ensure that all proposals    priority financed by International Financial    of guarantees countered.
core budget expenditures.        for guarantees to commercial activities are  Institutions, as well as an increasing degree
notified to the Competition Council in    of risk-sharing by other parties.          Some costs of guarantees intemalised
accordance with Article 14 of the draft law on  Develop classification and provisioning of  by participants (the borrowing
state aid, and that guarantees are not given  guaranteed loans, incorporate provisions and  company, the bank, and the
without a positive report from the Council in  limits on new guarantees into the three-year  sponsoring ministry).
accordance with Article 18.               budget projections.
A.3. Objective: Clarifying the financial responsibilities and constraints of non-commercial extrabudgetary public entities
Borrowing from the banking system    Submit to Seimas Law on Budget Structure  Policies in place which effectively end  Quasi-fiscal imbalances better
by public entities outside the budget   which ends borrowing by appropriation  borrowing by appropriation managers and  controlledi
poses a threat to macroeconomic  managers and ensures that all borrowing by    ensure that all borrowing by budget units is
stability, as well as crowding-out  budget units is undertaken by the Ministry of   undertaken by the Ministry of Finance, and  Financially sustainable devolved
private investment. Monitoring,  Finance, and financing is carried out through   financing is carried out through budget  structures for public entities
financial and govemance structures    budget appropriations.                appropriations.                            established.
for these entities are weak.     End borrowing by Roads Fund.               Improve capacity to monitor borrowing by,
and other commitments of, all public entities,
including (1) local governments, (2) AFMRA,
(3) SoDra, and (4) other public entities.
SoDra's 2001 budget with more clear
classification and binding borrowing limit to
be reviewed and approved by Minister of
Finance before presentation to Seimas.
Beginning with the 2001 PIP, develop new
financing guidelines which ensure that projects
which generate inadequate own revenues to
repay a loan are not financed through
guaranteed borrowing.
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 3 of 15)
A.4. Objective: Improving the planning and management of the core budget
BENCHMARKS1
Current Status/Key Challenges                    By June 2000                                By June 2001                              Outcome
Current budget practices rely heavily   Analysis of the revenue outturn to date in 2000,   Use the three-year budget planning process to   Reduced underfulfilment of the
on cash rationing. Budget plans are   to detennine whether budget appropriations can    monitor and control coummitments.  budget. and thus less need to resort to
regularly underfuilfilled, andi budget    be fulfilled or whether a supplemnentary budget is                              cash rationing. Greater fulfilment of
priorities are discarded in favour of    needed.                              In the budget presented to Seimas in late-2000:    budget expenditure appropriations
cash allocation priorities.                                                   - Intate a process of reducig the number of  within forecast revenues and planned
Performance measures and          Development of procedures for undertaking   separate budget line items and consolidating   borrowing resources.
incentives for efficiency are lacking.   an orderly response to shortfalls of revenue  expenditure allocations under program headings.
relative to forecasts.                      * Initiate a reduction  in  the number of  Appropriations increasingly reflective
appropriation managers.                     of govemment's policy priorities.
Preparation by the Ministry of Finance of a  *  Ministries  to  propose  and  introduce
revenue forecast for 2001, showing the      performance measures for those programs where   Appropriation managers able to use
sensitivity of revenue to different GDP     such measures can most readily be developed.    resources more flexibly to achieve
growth assumptions, and the potential                                                   program objectives.
impact of any tax changes currently under                                               Strengthened    mechanisms    for
consideration.                                                                          detecting the wasteful and inefficient
use of budget resources.
Establish a Government monitoring procedure
for Cabinet decisions that have clear budget
implications.
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 4 of 15)
B0Rfor.:f PnasionsandSocial AssXistnce000 ;   00    0  0  ; t;    f      ~, 
B.1. Objective: Achieve balance and better incentives within the current pension and SoDra legal framework
BENCHMARKS'
Current Status/Key Challenges                   Bv June 2000                               By June 2001                              Outcome
Increases in contribution rates and in  Government submits to Seimas draft   Government provides evidence that pension   Both near and long term viability of
assessable wages have alleviated the   amendments to current social insurance  policies satisfactory to the Bank are in place  the current social insurance pension
immediate financial pressures on  law, satisfactory to the World Bank, that  that (a) help achieve fiscal balance in the  system, including a reduction and
SoDra's budget. But these measures  adjust the rate of increase in retirement  short-term, and increase certainty in benefit  eventual elimination of system
compound existing incentives to   ages, treatment of working pensioners,     adjustments and (b) in conjunction with the   deficits.
receive compensation in exempt or   sickness benefit rules and other appropriate   work in B.2 (below), that the Seimas has
illegal ways and do not assurc that    measures directed to achieving fiscal  been provided with analyses of the current    More efficient and less ad hoc
the objective of a short-term balance  balance in the short-term.            law pension program's long term fiscal      methods used to achieve fiscal
with a reserve in SoDra will be met.                                         balance, including options for possible     balance.
Regardless of any major revisions of  Ministry of Social Security and Labor (MSSL)  increases in retirement ages and possible
Lithuania's state social insurance  provides evidence that; a) a clear comnuitment   reductions in contribution rates and changes  Assure highest level of revenue
pension system (see below), long-    has been made to adjust the delayed retirement  to and under existing law to encourage  collection and compliance and
term balance in the existing state  credit to an actuarially neutral level , and b) a    longer work and increased compliance; and   minimize burdens on employers and
social insurance pension needs    study to determine this neutral level has been    (c) introduce improved disability criteria  other taxpayers.
addressing through further policy  commissioned.                             and certification procedures.
changes. Finally, the respective
administrative roles of SoDra, the  To ensure greater certainty in benefit   Govemment provides evidence that policies
Ministry of Finance and the State  adjustments, a) Government to approve     are in place which require employers to cover
Tax Inspectorate need resolution.  amendments to the Law on State Social     the cost of at least the first 5 days of sickness
Insurance Pension which introduce indexation   benefits.
of the basic pension by the consumer price
index, and b) MSSL to make legal changes   Government provides evidence that a plan
needed to move indexation of the           satisfactory to the Bank is in place that gives the
supplementary pension to the lesser of the  govemment more effective information and
growth in average wages or the growth in the    control over SoDra revenues and spending, and
aggregate wage base (sum) actually assessed    that distinguishes pension contributions and
by SoDra.                                  spending from other SoDra contributions and
spending, which procedures have been in place
MSSL provides evidence that work has started   for at least one quarter.
to analyze the disability caseload and.changes
in disability criteria and certification
procedures
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 5 of 15)
BENCHM /ARKS1
Current Status/Key Challenges                 By June 2000                              By June 2001                            Outcome
MSSL and Working Group (see B.2 below)   Govemment provides evidence to the Bank
provides evidence that, in conjunction with the  that STI and SoDra have developed a time
work in B.2, it has undertaken analyses  bound plan, satisfactory to the Bank, that
conceming the current law pension program's   moves contribution auditing, compliance and
long term fiscal balance, including the possible  collection responsibilities from SoDra to STI
need to increase retirement ages in the out-  without putting existing performance levels at
years, options for reducing contribution rates,   risk and that the initial steps in cooperation
and through changes in the basic pension to  have been in place for at least one quarter.
encourage longer work and increased
compliance.
MSSL provides evidence that an analysis has
been comnrnissioned of the fiscal and incentive
effects of; a) increases in contribution rates and
assessable wages, and b) withdrawing the
supplementary pension from working
pensioners.
MSSL provides evidence that in conjunction
with the work in B.2. (below) and budget
management reforms under Section A.,
analyses are undertaken to more clearly
distinguish pension contributions and spending
from other SoDra contributions and benefits.
In conjunction with the work to improve tax
administration discussed in section C.2., the
MSSL provides evidence that the State Tax
Inspectorate and SoDra have initiated a review
of contribution collection, auditing and
compliance to support increased cooperation in
the short-term and of the steps necessary for
eventual merger of all revenue and data
collection, auditing and compliance.
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 6 of 15)
B.2. Objective: Prepare and achieve deeper pension reform
BENCHMARKS'
Current Status/Key Challenges                    By June 2000                                By June 2001                              Outcome
In the mid-1990s, Lithuania made  Provide to the Bank: (a) evidence that a    Submnission to Seimas of a satisfactory policy    Better provision of a basic level of
good progress on pension reform.  working group has been chartered reporting  package that will achieve the goal of a basic    protection in old age.
But the goal of covering all citizens   to the PM to develop proposals as to how  level of support for all citizens and that
with a basic level of support in old    Lithuania might best provide a basic level of  determines the role of privately-managed  Greater economic growth through
age is not being successfully     support in old age for all citizens and that  funded pensions in the mandatory social    higher savings and more efficient
achieved. Options to better address    comprehensively addresses the role of  insurance pension system in Lithuamia.       capital markets through greater use of
this goal are now being actively  voluntary and mandatory funded pensions                                                  privately-managed funded pensions.
considered. In addition, Lithuania    in Lithuania in both the state and private  Submission of satisfactory evidence that
needs to develop a more coherent  sector; and (b) an action plan and realistic    policies are in place to put early retirement    Assure that costs of additional
and effective policy on the role of    timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, for the  and other supplementary benefits in the  compensation in state sector are
privately-managed funded pensions   completion of an options paper that includes  state sector on a funded basis in the long-  allocated over time in a non-
in several contexts.              concrete proposals and enabling legislation   term and that facilitate the creation of   distortionary and equitable manner.
addressing these matters.                   funded pensions in the private sector for the
same ends.
B.3. Objective: Reforms of social assistance to mitigate the effects of other SAL measures
Some reforms under the SAL        Reform reporting requirements of local      Complete an assessment satisfactory to the   These measures will provide a basis
program, e.g. increased utility   govemments to ensure that information for   Bank of the ability of the social protection  for policy adjustments to improve
tariffs, may have negative short-run   proper monitoring and review of the    system to protect residents of areas with   targeting to those most in need.
impacts on the more vulnerable    compensation and social benefit schemes is  significantly above average unemployment
members of society. In addition, the   available.                             rates, possibly including rural areas hit by  Strengthened social assistance system
recent devolution of responsibility                                           the accelerated transition from-farrning to non-   allowing better response to similar
for social assistance to local    Establish annual review of systems of       farm activity.                               future shocks.
governments may have an adverse    compensating heating, hot water and other
effect on delivery of benefits,   utility payments for poor members of        Complete an assessment satisfactory to the
because of limited resources and the   society to ensure they remain effective as the   Bank of the adequacy of the new social
possibility for local governments to   structure of the utilities and of energy prices  assistance system set forth in the Law on Cash
establish different priorities for  changes.                                  Social Assistance with respect to family
budget spending. Since there is                                               income and consumption, as well as the
currently insufficient information to                                         targeting mechanism.
outline the policies necessary to
improve the safety net, the
Govemment needs to establish
better reporting systems, and to
begin a more thorough review of the
effectiveness of the s stem._
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 7 of 15)
C.; Pik~~ioWrJ)cvcop0ent                  . :-          :        :        
C. 1. Establishing effective privatization procedures; Privatizing the Lithuanian Savings Bank
BENCHMARKS'
Current Status/lKey Challenges                  By June 2000                               By June 2001                             Outcome
The government is moving forward   For new privatizations, firm and binding  For new privatizations starting June 2000,    The Government's commitment to use
to privatize three important state-  conunitment by the Government to; engage   the Government will engage financial    best practices will increase investor
owned companies, power, gas and    financial advisors and sales agents, as   advisors and sales agents, as required, using   confidence; attract better buyers at
the Lithuania Savings Bank (LSB).   required, using open tenders; finance    open tenders; finance needed retainer fees;   better prices; and ensure a higher
A number of measures and best    needed retainer fees; and use transparent   and use transparent and open sales        level of success in selling state-
practices can ensure that Lithuania    and open sales procedures.            procedures.                                owned companies.
derives maximum benefit (including
operational efficiencies) from the
introduction of private capital and
private sector expertise into these
enterprises.
Lithuania has two remaining large    For the privatization of LSB, the       As the privatization process moves forward,  The Savings Bank restructured and
state-owned banks, the Agriculture    Government will select and hire an     submission to the Bank of the investment   moved to the private sector, and more
Bank and the Lithuanian Savings  internationally reputed investment bank,    bank's privatization plan (that will include the   efficient. Government removed from
Bank (LSB). The former is now    following best practices, to sell control of the  time-bound restructuring plan or plans), a  financial restructuring comnmitments.
being privatized and the government  LSB to a reputable private shareholder  synopsis of the offering information
has started the financial        banking institution, using transparent and    memorandum with all the conditions of sale,
restructuring and privatization of the  open bidding sales procedures. The  the pre-qualification criteria for bidders, the
latter. The challenge will be to  Government will contract with the          criteria for the selection of a winning bid and a
.assure that the Savings Bank is  investment bank, inter alia, that its      report on the selection of the winning bid.
properly restructured, financially,  privatization plan to be submitted to the  These will be satisfactory to the Bank.
and sold in a transparent way, using   Government will include a time-bound
best practices to find the best buyer.  restructuring plan or plans for LSB.  The government to offer LSB for sale to a
strategic buyer using an open, international
bidding process.
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 8 of 15)
C.2. Objective: Improving tax administration
BENCHMARKS'
Current Status/Key Challenges                  By June 2000                              By June 2001                             Outcome
The Govemment gives high priority   Policy decision by the Minister of Finance to    The Government to include in the budget for    -   Better compliance.
to strengthening Lithuania's tax  adopt a voluntary compliance approach to  2001 resources to start implementation of the    -   More fair taxation.
administration, which remains weak  taxation by approving the Strategic Plan of the   Strategic Plan and the tax administration  -   Better transparency.
and inefficient in spite of past and  State Tax Inspectorate (STI) for 2000-2001.    improvement program of the STI.  -   Lower cost of tax
ongoing reforms. The reliance on                                                                                          administration.
"ruthless campaigns" is seen as  Decision by Minister of Finance to implement   Prepare and approve amendments to decrees  -   Increase in tax collection.
particularly arbitrary and unjust.  the tax administration improvement program  relevant to the implementation of the Strategic
Such perceptions encourage       initiated by the STI.                     Plan and the tax administration improvement
corruption and tax evasion, as well                                        program. Prepare and submit to the Seimas
as discouraging business                                                   amendments to relevant legislation.
development. Remedying these
problems will begin with                                                   Clear progress on implementation of the tax
fundamental shift to a voluntary                                           administration improvement program.
compliance strategy now being
proposed by the State Tax
Inspectorate.
C.3. Objective: Improving corporate governance and shareholder rights
In spite of past reforms to      Submit to the Seimas amendments to the    Submit to the Seimas a new accounting law    -   Improved corporate govemance
accounting rules, to the legal and  Law on Companies to require audit of all    based on IAS and EU directives, which  -   Accurate, timely information on
regulatory framework for the stock   joint stock companies - with the exception    establishes a general requirement of   companies to stakeholders
exchange, and to reform the Civil    of small, private companies - by auditors  accounting and financial reporting based on   -   Better access for companies to
Code, corporate governance remains  qualified in accordance with the Law on  these standards and directives, but which    debt and equity capital
weak. This provides incentives for   Audit.                                leaves the preparation and approval of    -   More fair taxation of companies;
inefficiency (and sometimes                                                accounting standards to a private sector       improved tax collection.
corporate looting) rather than   The Govemment will support the Lithuanian    driven body. The draft law should be   -   Better protection for minority
restructuring. Further improvements  Securities Commission (LSC) to prepare  finalized in close consultation with private  shareholders
are most urgent in the areas of  proposals to strengthen securities markets  sector stakeholders and the World Bank.
accounting and auditing,         through ensuring the independence of the LSC,
enforcement of rules and regulations  and through improving the preconditions for
of the Securities Commission, and in  effective supervision of the Lithuanian Stock    The LSC should complete the proposals to
the authority and tools for such  Exchange (LSE) by the LSC, the transparency   strengthen securities markets, and the
enforcement.                     and discipline of the LSE, and shareholders  Government should approve and submit to
rights.                                   Seimas proposals for amendments to
legislation , and approve amendments to
decrees and decisions in relation to such
.__ __ __ ___ __ __ __ ___ __ _ _ p  ro  p sals.
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 9 of 15)
C.4. Objective Increasing the effectiveness of enterprise bankruptcy and restructuring mechanisms
BENCHMARKS'
Current Status/Key Challenges                  By June 2000                               By June 2001                             Outcome
In spite of several amendments to its  Submit new draft bankruptcy law to Seimas.    Submit the new legislation on enterprise  -   Accelerated bankruptcy and
legal basis, the bankruptcy system in                                       restructuring, satisfactory to the Bank, to    liquidation process.
Lithuania remains weak. Gaps in the  In close consultation with the Bank and  Seimas.                                  -   Restructuring/working out
legal framework are compounded by  IMF, revise new draft legislation on                                                     instead of liquidation of viable
limits to implementation capacity,    enterprise restructuring to be in line with  Parallel to the processing of the new   enterprises.
particularly in the commercial   international best practice and consistent  legislation, prepare an action plan to remove  -   Expedient liquidation of
judicial system. As a result, large  with overall commercial legal framework  key bottlenecks to implementing the           companies with no or little
but weak enterprises to tum to the    and therefore satsifactory to the Bank, and    legislation.                           chance of survival, including
government for assistance, rather  submit to Cabinet.                                                                      reduction of fiscal pressures.
than being faced with financial                                             Start implementation of the action plan.   -   Less risk for fraud and
restructuring. The resulting softness                                                                                      squandering of assets in
of budget constraints has eroded                                                                                            insolvent enterprises.
fiscal discipline, as well as delaying
restructuring.
C.5. Objective: Removing barriers to new business development
Lithuania has improved business  Facilitate land acquisition and administration    Prepare and propose to the Seimas   -   Easier entry for enterprises, both
conditions and its record in     by setting a deadline for submitting land  amendments to legislation, and approve          domestic and foreign.
attracting investments. Nonetheless,  restitution claims, by speeding up procedures    amendments to decrees to further facilitate land  -   Better conditions for doing
business in Lithuania is still heavily  for the sale and lease of state-owned land and    aqcuisition and administration (including  business.
regulated compared to its Baltic and  lowering fees for such transactions, and by  facilitating the processing of remaining  -   Increased FDI
Central European neighbors,      allowing sale of state-owned land without  restoration claims, and streamlining the   -   Increased economic activity and
especially in the areas of customs  auction.                                registration of land, buildings and mortgages).  increased tax revenue.
procedures, access to land, and the
sale and movement of goods.                                                 Prepare and propose to the Seimas
Complex, changing, often                                                    amendments to relevant legislation and
contradictory rules and regulations    Prepare and propose to the Seimas    approve amendments to relevant to improve
are a potential stimulus to      amendments to relevant legislation or prepare   the conditions for the sale and movement of
corruption, and are a particular  new legislation to improve conditions for the    goods by eliminating excessive and
burden on SMEs. Deregulation and   sale and movement of goods by reducing the    unnecessary bureaucracy, and by eliminating
removal of bottlenecks can be a low   number of sectors restricted to domestic  excessively high licensing fees.
cost way to improve the business  investment, and by eliminating inequalities in
environment and spur growth.     setting licensing fees.
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 10 of 15)
D.1. Objective: Selecting market models for electricity and gas
BENCHMARKS'
Current Status/Key Challenges                   By June 2000                               By June 2001                              Outcome
Lithuania has now reached a point    Select the market model for power and gas,                                          Vision of the reform process in the
where it can make a definitive    consistent with EU Directives and submit to                                            sector established.
choice between those market models  the Seimas.
which would satisfy EU electricity                                                                                       Market models established which
and gas Directives. The selected  Establish, together with the Governments of  Working Groups to complete their tasks which   promote competition to cut costs of
model should take into account the    Latvia and Estonia, working groups to make  would establish a time-bound action plan to  power and gas and which satisfy EU
likely development of Baltic and  recommendations the necessary technical,   fully meet EU Directives on market          directives.
European energy markets.          economic, institutional and financial issues  liberalization.
relating to the development of a Common Baltic                                         One major precondition in place for
Electricity Market.                                                                    privatization to increase sector
efficiency ahead of opening of
markets to competition within the
EU.
D.2. Objective: Restructuring the power and gas sub-sectors
The final design of the power sector   Lithuanian Power Company to. establish  Establish generation, transmission/national  Structure of the power sector fully
will depend on the market model   generation, transmission, distribution as  grid operation and distribution businesses of  meeting EU Directives for market
selected. Common to all possible    separate profit centers with their own set of    LPC as separate companies.         liberalization.
models will be the unbundling of  accounts and clearly identified transmission
electricity generation, transmission    and distribution service prices. A plan will    Prepare the Trading Rules and Grid Code and    LPC, the distribution company[ies],
and distribution and the          be established for a competitive market for    submit them to the Bank.                and each generating station operate
establishment of discrete entities to   generation.                                                                      independently, with separate accounts
discharge these functions.                                                   LG to separate its LPG business in a manner    and career structures.
Lithuanian Gas (LG) to establish LPG as a  consistent with EU principles.
The natural gas sector should be  separate profit center with its own set of                                             LG has become a profit-maximizer
liberalized in accordance with the  accounts.                                                                            operating on the basis of incentive-
framework of the EU Gas Directive                                                                                        based regulation.
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 11 of 15)
D.3. Objective: Privatization of the electricity and gas sectors
BENCHIDARKS1
Current Status/Key Challenges                  By June 2000                              By June 2001                            Outcome
Properly done introduction of    The government will hire a reputable      The Government will hire a reputable       Privatization has increased
private capital will not only bring    international investment banks to undertake  intemational investment bank to undertake the   operational efficiency in energy in
operational efficiencies, but also put  the privatization of LPC using an open,  privatization of LG using an open,  preparation for EU integration,
downward pressure on prices,     international tender. The Request for     international tender. The criteria for selection   increasing potential benefits of
making downstream industries more  Proposals, criteria for selection and short  and short list will be sent to the Bank for  market liberalization.
competitive. The procedures for  list will be sent to the Bank for review and    review and will be satisfactory to the Bank.
privatization will also influence the   will be satisfactory to the Bank.                                             Downward pressure on energy prices,
revenues raised by the government.                                         As the privatization process for LPC and LG  giving downstream industries
To ensure that Lithuania derives  The government will issue a Request for  moves forward, submission to the Bank of the   increased opportunity to be
maximum benefit from             Proposals to hire a reputable international   investment banks' privatization plans, the pre-   competitive.
privatization, a number of      investment bank to undertake the           qualification criteria for bidders, the criteria for
supporting measures are needed   privatization of LG using an open,        selection of a winning bid and a report on the    Most of power distribution and
international tender. The Request for     selection of the winning bid. These will be  possibly significant generation moved
Proposals, will be sent to the Bank for   satisfactory to the Bank.                 to the private sector.
review and will be satisfactory to the Bank.
Government to offer for sale at least 51% of  LG moved to the private sector
LPC's distribution assets through an open    resulting in increasing efficiency
international tender to international     with gas prices becoming more
strategic investors.                      competitive and market driven.
Government to offer at least 41% of LG for
sale through an open international bidding
process to an international strategic buyer.
D.4. Objective: Reforming corporate governance in the large energy utilities
The governance of LPC and LG has   Amend legislation, other regulations and the  Government agrees financial targets and  While the Government retains a
worsened in recent years. The    statutes of LPC and LG, to require the Minister   investment criteria with the Boards of LPC and  majority stake, the entity is run on
relative roles of the Government and  of Economy to set out appropriate remits and  LG.                               commercial terms as a State-owned
commercial enterprises need to be    working procedures for the Supervisory Board                                     enterprise. The operation of the
separated to eliminate political and    of LG and the Supervisory and Goveming  Directors General and Management Boards of   sector has become significantly less
govemmental involvement in the   Boards of LPC. The Supervisory Board of LG    LPC and LG have prepared corporate strategy   political.
decision-making of LPC and LG.   and the Governing Board of LPC will consist of  to be reviewed and approved by the
personnel with named qualifications in areas  Supervisory Board. The strategy would
such as finance, law, economics, industry.  address the long-term role, cost cutting,
investment plans and quality of supply criteria,
Complement the new structures by appointing    including accountability.
internal Management Board which will assist
the Directors General of both LPC and LG.
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL 11.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 12 of 15)
D.5. Objective: Recasting the legal and regulatory environment
BENCIIMARKS'
Current Status/Key Challenges                   By June 2000                                By June 2001                              Outcome
Thc Government has initiated efforts  Provide acceptable timetable for introducing  Establish a system for the financing of the EPC   Laws updated to create legal
to update laws for electricity, gas  legal and other changes needed to establish a  which is independent of the State budget or of   framework required to meet EU
and district heating. This is an  system for the financing of the EPC which is  Government decision.                     Directives on energy, and to provide
essential step, without which     independent of the State budget or of                                                  the framework to maximize the
progress in other aspects of energy    Govemment decision.                   Enact an acceptable electricity law, a gas law,   potential revenues from privatization.
policy, including privatization                                              and a district heating law.
leading to an increase in efficiency,   Give the EPC the power to instigate price
will be hindered.                 reviews on its own initiative.             Complete the regulatory environment for     More reliable pricing mechanisms
energy by extending the powers of the      facilitate private sector investment
Make any changes necessary to the LPC and  National Control Commission for Prices and  and maximise retums to the State.
LG's statutes and procedures to ensure that  Energy Activities (EPC) to include the
tariff proposals are delivered to EPC in a  licensing and supervision of operators,
timely manner.                             norms for the trading of power and gas,
service quality, and consumer protection.
D.6: Objective: Achieving economic pricing and financial stability in the energy sector
The financial positions of        Gas and electricity prices were increased  Short-term debt of LPC eliminated, with the  Energy utilities are able to fully
Lithuanian Power Company (LPC),  effective January 1, 2000. LPC must raise   exception of working capital needs.         service financing needs without
and to a lesser extent Lithuanian Gas  funds to service immediate debt servicing                                         recourse to Government support.
(LG), are critical. As a result, the  needs. LPC to initiate conversion of short-term
energy sector has been a major drain  debt to longer-term maturity.
on the state budget. This is caused
partly by the past failure of prices to  Initiate an assessment of pricing cniteria for
rise in line with costs, and partly by   LPC and LG as to consistency with attraction of
the decision to export            private investors. Establish incentives for
unremunerated power to Belarus.   downward price pressure.                   Initiate changes in legal framework required to   Prices reflecting efficient use of
Further actions are needed,                                                  implement the change in pricing criteria.   capital attracting private investors.
including addressing balance sheet   Initiate price formulation to reflect restructuring
issues and setting prices that enable   of LPC (separate pricing of network and  Implement the revised pricing criteria,  Revised pricing incentives reduce
a reasonable return on shareholder    ancillary services).                   reflecting the structural changes in LPC.   some energy prices.
equity.
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 13 of 15)
E.1. Objective: Enhancing fiscal transparency and sustainability
BENCHMARKS
Current Status/Key Challenges    _             By June 2000                               By June 2001                             Outcome
In 1999, the financial commitments   Introduce measures to restrict budget   Maintain measures taken prior to the first    Agricultural support mechanisms
made for market regulation and    expenditures on market regulation and      tranche; and shift towards decoupled      operating in a way which increases
income support programs were far in  income support and thereby shift some of the  support measures, by introducing EU-  fiscal transparency and sustainability
excess of budget targets and      risk of decreases in market prices away from   consistent financial safeguards for   and tightens control of planning and
significantly increased fiscal pressure.  the government, induding setting a budget    implementation of support measures (such    spending processes, while
Many support programs were open-    cap on such expenditures, elimination of  as base area and animal numbers for      contributing to the development of
ended from a budgetary point of   (budgetary) open-ended comrnitments/       administration of direct payments) that   EU-consistent financial monitoring
view. The Agri-Food Market        refrain from introducing others, and       reduce the unpredictability of program    and control procedures.
Regulation Agency (AFMRA) had     ensuring that sugar market regulation      costs.
operating losses far in excess of what  mechanisms are self-financing.                                                 Increased accountability and higher
was earmarked at the beginning of the                                        Within the framework of EU integration,   transparency of AFMRA and its
year and apparently had no restriction   Adopt measures to improve AFMRA     introduce for all agricultural support    financial operations and reduction in
on its claims to budgetary resources.   operational and financial performance and   programs, the same financial planning,  its costs and the uncertainty of its
relatively high levels of administered   move it toward what will be needed for EU    accounting, and control procedures required  costs.
farm prices created pressure for  intervention operations, including: a)     by the EU for the administration of pre-
introduction of export subsidies,  submit to the bank a plan to restructure  accession funds by the National Paying    Reduction in the repayment risk to
resulting in additional costs to the  governance and operational procedures,  Agency.                                  RLGF and improvement in access to
budget. As a result of increased  introduce stricter financial control and                                             farm credit.
expenditures on market regulation  auditing procedures, and prohibit the     Restructure the AFMRA governance and
and export subsidy programs, and a    expansion of its activities beyond that of  operational procedures, including stricter
shortage of budgetary resources,  Government approved intervention           financial control and auditing.
support to investment programs was    programs; and b) ensure that AFMRA can
suspended in mnid-1999.           operate within a limited allocation from the   Beginning with the 2001 budget preparation,
agriculture budget by designing           remove the Govemment loan guarantees for
Financial difficulty in the farming  intervention policies and the AFMRA     AFMRA from the RLGF so that guarantees to
sector may result in low repayment of  operations in a way that costs to the budget   AFMRA are operated on the same basis as
farm bank loans guaranteed by the  are minimized.                            other Govemment loan guarantees.
Rural Loan Guarantee Fund (RLGF),
thus increasing claims on RLGF                                               Revise the statutes of the RLGF to broaden the
reserves. This increases potential                                           range of clients eligible for RLGF guarantees
claims on the national budget.                                              to facilitate implementation of EU SAPARD
programs and, accordingly, increase the loan
reserves.
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 14 of 15)
E.2. Objective Creating a stable, more consistent and less distorting policy environment
BENCHMARKS
Current Status/Key Challenges                    By June 2000                               By June 2001                             Outcome
An unstable and inconsistent policy    Prepare and submit to the Bank a detailed  Maintain the measures taken prior to the  Stability in design and
environment has hampered structural   short-tenn action plan for the agricultural  first tranche and specify and introduce  implementation of current national
adjustment in this sector, as well as    policy and market regulation measures for  measures to implement a medium-term  policies and consistency in their
eroding fiscal sustainability. The  2000 programs, including the supporting legal  strategy, including on the institutional front  evolution toward EU support policies,
delayed and often conflicting policy    framework, institutional structures, monitoring  the full implementation of parcel and crop    implementation mechanisms, and
signals have made it difficult for  and financial control procedures, and     declaration and animal identification and  monitoring and control procedures.
decision makers in farming,        estimated cost and sources of financing    registration systems.
processing, and service industries to   (consistent vith amendments to Article 7 of                                      A transparent, stable, and predictable
make sound decisions on future     the Law on State Regulation of Economic    Approve and announce the comprehensive set   medium term decision environment
activities and investments. These  Relations in Agriculture).                 of new policy and market regulation measures  for private and govemment entities.
uncertainties have also limited access                                       for 2001 by June 1, 2000, as stipulated by Law
to and increased the cost of financial   Approve and announce the comprehensive set  on State Regulation of Economic Relations in
resources.                         of new policy and market regulation measures   Agriculture.
for 2000 programs and ensure stability and
Relatively high administered farm  continuity of measures throughout the year.  Reform the national and regional agricultural
prices and subsidy commitments,                                               administration, including subordination of
together with a drop in market prices,  Eliminate price subsidies for grains and  regional agricultural officers to the MOA and
led to payment arrears. Distorting  milk and ensure that market regulation    adoption of EU-required planning, accounting
price policies also reduced the    measures (such as MMPP, target and         and control procedures.
competitiveness of domestic products  intervention prices, if used) are set below
in both domestic and export markets.  the world market price levels not to distort
The result is increased financial  the market and to enable private
burdens on the budget and pressures   transactions. Refrain from introducing new
to introduce protectionist measures.    measures that have distorting effect, relying
instead on safety net measures that provide
limited and infrequent intervention.
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



LITHUANIA - PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
POLICY ACTION MATRIX (Page 15 of 15)
E.3. Objective: Raising competitiveness of the agri-food sector and vitality of the rural economy
BENCH MARKSi
Current Status/Key Challenges                  By June 2000                              By June 2001                            Outcome
Farm productivity needs to be     Approve and submit to Seimas Land Law    Approve and submit to Seimas a constitutional  Enhanced land market activity and
improved to compete in domestic and  amendments to remove constraints on the use   amendment and laws to permit agricultural  consolidation of farm operations will
external markets and in anticipation    of agricultural land for altemative purposes.    land ownership by domestic legal entities.  lead to improved structures and
of EU accession, using measures in                                                                                   efficiency of primary farming.
compliance with EU and WTO        Submit to Seimas draft amendments to the  Approve and submit to Seimas the draft
requirements. The functioning of  Law on Shareholding Companies to eliminate   Consolidation Act, designed to facilitate land   Improved functioning of markets for
rural land markets remain hampered   restrictions on circulation of farmer shares in   consolidation and discourage further  land and capital in agriculture will
by restrictions on agricultural land  the agri-food industry.               fragmentation in agricultural holdings.  increase access to credit and
ownership by legal entities and on its                                                                               encourage private investment. Better
use for other purposes, which slows    Ensure enforcement of new raw milk quality    Support competitiveness of the food industry   access to credit will also increase
the farm restructuring process.   standards introduced January 1, 2000, so that   by making satisfactory progress on the  farmers' access to SAPARD funds.
the first necessary step in quality improvement  National Acquis Adoption Program for
Many agri-food enterprises are in a    is not delayed.                     development and implementation of quality  Higher quality of farm produce and
difficult financial situation.                                             requirements and restructuring of the food  less distorting market regulations will
quality control system.                   improve competitiveness of the food
Higher food quality standards are                                                                                    industry in domestic and external
needed to raise competitiveness in                                         Besides provision of national co-financing of   markets.
non-traditional markets and support                                         EU SAPARD, ensure continuation of the
EU accession.                                                               investment and rural development grant
programs within the agricultural budget and
Support for efficiency-enhancing                                            limit the interest rate subsidy element of these
investments needs to be protected.                                         programs to the level in the planned 2000
budget.
1. Benchmarks in bold are loan conditions that are included in the loan agreement of SAL II.



Lithuania at a glance                                                               6/16/00
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  rrmddle-
Uthuania      Asia   Icome        Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (milfions}                        3.7      473       908                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS,                   2,440     2 190     1,710
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions,'                      9.0     1039      1557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                        -0.2       0.1       1.1
Labor force (%)                                        02        06        i       GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-9f                               capita                       enroliment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line.   -
Urban population (%B of total population)             74        68        58
Life expeotancy at birth (years)                       71         69       68
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live birtfhs)              10         23       38
Child malnutrition (% of children under5),                                                    Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                             -        75
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                               4        14
Gross primary enrollment N% of school-age population;  96        100       103              Lithuania
Male                                                 97        101       105           - Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               95         99      100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1978     1988      1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GOP (US$ billions)                             ..    11.4        9.6      10.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                         39.5      26.5      24.4                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GOP                     52.8      54.5      47.2
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                       ..    25.9       16.0      125
Gross national savings/GDP                              ..      16.3      121 t1
Current account balance/GDP                             ..    -10.2    -121          os                         Ivt
Interest payments/GDP                                  0,0       1.5       1.6     Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                         0.0      32.8      33.3
Total debt service/exports                               -      10.3      16.6
Present value of debVGDP
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1978-88  1988-98     1997      1998   1998-02
(average annual growth,          :
GOP                                   ..    -4.8       7.3       51        2.3              ithuania
GNP per capita                       ..    -5.0        6.5       4.8      Z3            -   Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..       2.9     187        0.7       2.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1978     1988      1997      1998      Growth of investment and GDP(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                    1.        .      1.7       10.2    40
Industry                                       ..    46.0       32.9      32.5    20
Manufacturing                                ..    34.5        20.5      18.8     20                 _
Services                                       ..    28.8       55.4      57.3      0<                      a 97   98
Private consumption                                   53.5      65.1      63.1     40 1
General government consumption                 .      20.6      19.0      24.4                'GDI    --*-GDP
Imports of goods and services                  .      66.4      65.1      59.1
1978-88  1988-98      1997      1998     Growth of exports and imports (%/6)
(average annual growth,
Agriculture                                           -1.5       8.6      -2.6   . 25
Industry                                        .     -9.8       6.5       9.4    20
Manufacturing                                 .    -12.4        8.1       6.2    Is
Services                                              -0.4       7.2       4.3    10
Private consumption                            .      -0.7       9.1       4.1  o  l
General government consumption                  .      5.2       1.5      22.9    -s      93   o      95   98   97   98
Gross domestic investment                      ..      8.8      25.2       5.2   -10
Imports of goods and services                  ..      2.1      22.8       4.5             -    Exports    -    Imports
Gross national product                                -5.0       6.3       4.8
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Lithuania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                 1978      1988       1997       1998      Inflation (/)
(% change)                                                                                1,000
Consumer prices                                     ..       ,.        8.9       5.1          ..0
Implicit GDPdeflator                               ..    -2.4         13.2       6.6       600    'b,
4010
Government finance                                                                         200        *. .
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                          0                                 .....0
Current revenue                                     ..       ..       32.6      34.0                93    94    95    96   97   98
Current budget balance                              ..       ..        2.0      -0.2            r            deflator     CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..        ..       -1.8      -5.8
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                  1978      1988       1997       1998      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                ..        ..      3,863     3,711      7,000
Commodity 1                                       ..       ..        688       713      6.000
Commodity 2                                       ..       ..        628       691      5,000
Manufactures                                      ..       ..      1,146      1,179     4,000
Total imports (cifl                                 ..       ..      5,644     5,794      3,000 -_r
Food                                              .         ..       405       437      2,0
Fuel and energy                                    *        *-       952       821      2,ooo      :j    i    | l      L
Capital goods87                                                                91
92   93   94   96   96   97   98
Export price index (1995=100)                       ..       ..       105         96
Import price index (1995-100)                       ..       ..       102         97                   E3Exports      N lrnports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          ..         .        103        99      _    _-_-_-_                              -
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                  1978      1988       1997       1998      Current account balance to GDP (/)
Exports of goods and services                       ..       .,      5,224     5,071       4-.
Imports of goods and services                       ..       ..      6,237     6,348       2 -
Re-source balance                                   .        ..     -1,013    -1,278       0 l-t.
Net income                                                            -198      -255       2M4
Net current transfers                              ..        ..       230        235       6.
Current account balance                             ..       ..      -981    -1,298        ;8                   E
.10-
Financing items (net)                              ..        ..      1,219     1,697      .12-
Changes in net reserves                             ..       ..      -238       -399      .14 .
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)             ..        ..      1,063     1,460
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)                              .        4.6       4.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1978     1988        1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                             Composition of 1997 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                0         0      3146       3576
IBRD                                             0         0        114        174
IDA                                              0         0          0          0                          A114 C272
Total debt service                                  0         0        538       863
IBRD                                             0         0         10         1267
IDA                                              a675 
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  0         0         23          ..                                       E. 346
Official creditors                                0        0         66        118
Private creditors                                0         0        283         74
Foreign direct investment                        ..        ..       328        921
Porffolio equity                                 0         0        173        -53                   F. 1,739
World Bank program
Commitments                                       0        0           4                A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    0         0         21         60      B- IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                             0         0          3          3      C - IMF                          - Short-term
Net flows                                        0         0         18         57
Interest payments                                0         0          7          8
Net transfers                                    0         0         11         49
Development Economics                                                                                                          6/16/00






T. SoIdoo9                          T. Rigo    L A T V I A                                                                        IBD261
N  fl  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o g                                            .AlKILOMETERS
Ica   ~ ~ ~ ~ Mz~ia                                    '%/J0   10  20  30  40  50
Lake                                     A4~I1        
T.                                                                                                                            0      10    2CI   30~Arnti./ 
T. D-eg-pils
- I)                       .-                       ~~~~BELARUS
1-                                                            IN METERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
N,~~~~, v~                                                        -+--RILOD
FED sERATIONo                           WIL  AEl                                            TodoITRNTOA BUDRE
POLAND  5)~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA AELERUSELEVABELARU
RUSSIAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUT1~



