              Document of
            The World Bank




                                          Report No: 25667

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
              (FSLT-70300)

                 ON A

                 LOAN

   IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 108.29 MILLION

                TO THE

       THE REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA

                FOR A

SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM




               05/23/2003

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective 30 June 2002)

                                    Currency Unit = Litas
                                             1 Litas = US$ .285
                                             US$ 1 = 3.51 Litas

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1-December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA      Analytic and Advisory Activities            ICM         Initiating Concept Memorandum
AFMRA    Agri-Food Market Regulatory Agency          ICR         Implementation Completion Report
BTO      Back-to-office Report                       IDF         International Development Fund
CAE      Country Assistance Evaluation               IMF         International Monetary Fund
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                 LDP         Letter of Development Policy
CEE      Central and Eastern Europe                  LG          Lithuania Gas
CEM      Country Economic Memorandum                 LPC         Lithuania Power Company
CIS      Commonwealth of Independent States          LSB         Lithuanian Savings Bank
ECA      Europe and Central Asia                     NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
EFF      Extended Fund Facility                      PAYGO       Pay-as-You-Go
EPC      Energy Pricing Commission (formally the     PRP         Power Rehabilitation Project
         National Control Commission for Prices
         and Energy)
ESA      European System of Accounts                 OECD        Organization for Economic Cooperation
                                                                 and Development
EU       European Union                              OED         Operations Evaluation Department
EU-PHARE Pre-accession Program to Facilitate Central QAG         Quality Assurance Group
         European Countries for EU Integration
EUR      EURO                                        SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
FDI      Foreign Direct Investment                   SBA         Stand-by Arrangement
                                                     Seimas      Lithuanian Parliament
FIAS     Foreign Investment Advisory Service         SoDra       Social Insurance Board
FIRST    Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening STI           State Tax Inspectorate
FSAP     Financial Sector Assessment Program         TA          Technical Assistance
FSL      Fixed Spread Loan                           USAID       US Agency for International Development
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                      WTO         World Trade Organization




                                   Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn
                      Country Manager/Director:         Roger W. Grawe
                        Sector Manager/Director:        Cheryl W. Gray
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Celestin Monga

                                         LITHUANIA
                                Second Structural Adjustment


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            19
6. Sustainability                                                                20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 22
8. Lessons Learned                                                               26
9. Partner Comments                                                              28
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             47
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             48
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             49
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             51
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                52
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            53
Annex 8. Borrower's Assessment                                                   54
Annex 9. Core Reform Measures                                                    58

Project ID: P068706                                                      Project Name: Second Structural Adjustment
Team Leader: Celestin Monga                                              TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: May 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Second Structural Adjustment                             L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70300
   Country/Department: LITHUANIA                                                          Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (42%); General industry and
                            trade sector (17%); Oil & gas (17%); Power (17%); General
                            agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (7%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (S); Corporate governance (S); Social risk
                            mitigation (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/08/1999                                        Effective: 07/28/2000              07/28/2000
   Appraisal:    04/10/2000                                            MTR:
    Approval:    07/25/2000                                         Closing: 06/30/2001               06/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Johannes F. Linn                                    Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:           Roger W. Grawe                                      Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager:            Cheryl W. Gray                                      Pradeep K. Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:        Celestin Monga                                      Ardo H. Hansson
ICR Primary Author:        James Q. Harrison


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:HL

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
1.     The objective of this EUR 108.29 million Second Structural Adjustment operation (SAL-II) was to
support the Lithuanian Government's structural reform program that was launched in response to a deep
recession and emerging macro-financial crisis. The program was designed to restore the economy to a
path of rapid and sustainable growth within a stable macro-economic framework, thereby reducing the
adverse impact of the crisis on the living standards of the people and enabling the restoration of rapid
growth to reduce poverty. The program included measures to stabilize the economy, focused particularly
on reduction of the fiscal deficit, supported by specific structural reforms in five areas: budget
management, pension reform, private sector development, and sector reforms in energy and agriculture. It
was expected that successful implementation of such a program would both improve Lithuania's access to
world capital markets and help the country make progress towards its key strategic goal of EU
membership. An assessment of the design and objectives of this operation needs to consider the context of
Lithuania's previous experience with structural reform, the economic crisis that led to this program, and the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy at the time. Paragraphs 2-16 below draw heavily from the President's
Report for SAL-II and the 1999 CAS (For full references, see items 1 and 2 in the attached Annex 7). As
discussed below and in the section on Quality at Entry, this objective was highly appropriate given
Lithuania's critical economic situation.

Background

2.     Like most countries regaining independence from the former Soviet Union, Lithuania struggled
through an initial period of severe transitional recession and hyperinflation. With support from the IMF,
World Bank and other donors, Lithuania managed to stabilize its economy (including through the
introduction of a currency board), and implemented first generation reforms to liberalize and privatize the
economy and put the social protection system on a more sustainable footing, resulting in a restoration of
growth in 1995. However, the current account deficit rose to over 10 percent of GDP in 1995 and
remained worryingly high; inflation, though much lower than earlier, remained in double digits; and
important gaps remained in structural policies and institutions, leaving economic restructuring far from
complete, and the economy vulnerable.

3.     In late-1995, a major banking crisis brought these vulnerabilities into sharp focus, revealing large
quasi-fiscal deficits and the clear need to accelerate reforms. The Government responded with a program
of stabilization and structural reforms, supported by an IMF EFF and a US$ 80 million World Bank
structural adjustment loan (SAL-I) in 1996. The structural reforms focused on: (a) restructuring the
banking sector and establishing a sound regulatory framework for the financial system; and (b), eliminating
the most serious imbalances and distortions in those sectors of the economy (notably energy, agriculture,
and social protection) that were major contributors to the erosion of both banking system capital and the
fiscal balance. Though implementation of this ambitious reform program was uneven and took longer than
expected (in part due to a change in government soon after approval of SAL-I; the second tranche was
released about 15 months later than originally anticipated), substantial structural changes were achieved,
notably a much stronger and better-regulated banking system, a large reduction in energy arrears and
improvements in the energy regulatory framework, reduced distortions in agriculture and good progress in
privatization. GDP growth accelerated, reaching 4.7 percent in 1996, 7.3 percent in 1997, and 9.2 percent
in the first half of 1998. Though the current account deficit remained persistently high, export growth was
robust, private investment increased, and the fiscal deficit declined to 1.8 percent of GDP in 1997. SAL-I
was rated as "Satisfactory" (or better) in all categories in its Implementation Completion Report (See
Annex 7, item 3), in the Government's own assessment, and in the OED Evaluation Summary.



                                                    - 2 -

4.    These successes, however, along with renewed access to world capital markets, appeared to generate
a sense of complacency and a slowdown in the pace of reforms. Some important elements of reforms
begun under SAL-I were not fully completed (notably in the areas of bank privatization, pension reforms
and energy price adjustments). This served to delay the restructuring needed for the economy to increase
competitiveness and penetrate OECD markets, and thus increase and diversify exports. Export growth
continued to be concentrated in the traditional CIS markets, and this, combined with the persistently high
current account deficits (in the range of 9 to 12 percent of GDP), left the economy quite vulnerable to
external shocks.

5.    In mid-1998, the Russian economic crisis and world oil price increases triggered such shocks,
leading to a combination of deflation, a collapse of foreign trade, a rising current account deficit, and
growing debt. GDP growth decelerated sharply during 1998, to about 5 percent for the year as a whole,
followed by a nearly 4 percent fall in GDP in 1999. Unemployment jumped from 5.4 percent in July, 1998
to 10 percent by end-1999. Exports to the CIS, which had constituted over 46 percent of total exports in
1997, fell by 59 percent, driving a drop in total exports of more than 18 percent. Initial efforts to deal with
the crisis sought to counter its impact with subsidies to protect incomes and employment. These efforts
were ineffective and unsustainable, and, together with other costly policies (such as the Savings Restitution
Plan), caused a large increase in public spending, much of it outside of the traditional central state budget.
The fiscal deficit again ballooned to nearly 6 percent of GDP in 1998, and to well over 8 percent in 1999.
Despite a collapse of imports (by 14 percent) the current account deficit grew from an already high 10
percent of GDP to over 12 percent. This, combined with the rapid rise in the fiscal deficit, raised serious
concerns that the currency board's exchange rate peg might not be sustainable (given that the ruble had
been substantially devalued, the fixed peg to the US dollar put pressure on the competitiveness of
Lithuania's exports), underlining the serious nature of the crisis threatening the country. The economy's
dependence on exports to the CIS and its sluggish response to the crisis also indicated that restructuring
was incomplete, and that further reforms were needed to enhance competitiveness and efficiency.

6.    By mid-1999, following a change in leadership, the Government began taking initial steps to reduce
the fiscal deficit and engage the IMF and the Bank in discussions of a possible SBA and SAL. After a
further change in leadership in late-1999 (due to the resignation of the prime minister, and ministers of
finance and economy over a highly controversial privatization deal), additional fiscal and reform measures
were taken, followed by agreements with the IMF on a precautionary SBA (March, 2000) and with the
Bank on the Second SAL (July, 2000).

World Bank Group Assistance Strategy

7.    The Bank's 1999 CAS identified human development, macro-financial stability, and EU accession as
the areas of strategic focus for lending and non-lending activities. The CAS anticipated the possibility of a
Second SAL arising out of a "external shock scenario", which was considered to be about as likely as the
base case, and it included non-lending work to help Lithuania develop its structural reform program, with a
focus on programs and policies most critical for EU accession. The CAS recognized the risks associated
with Lithuania's fragile macroeconomic situation, and the economy's vulnerability to external shocks
compounded by policy slippages. It also noted the political risks associated with maintaining tight fiscal
policy and ambitious reforms in the run up to the next general elections, especially if unemployment rose as
an initial response to restructuring in agriculture and industry.      However, in looking ahead to the
parliamentary elections scheduled for 2000, the CAS took the view that the risks of political instability, or
fundamental departures from the path of reform and prudent economic management, were limited, given
the overriding consensus in the country on the goal of achieving EU membership rapidly (1999 CAS,
paragraph 58).


                                                     - 3 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
    The objective was, and remained, highly appropriate and was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
      Overall Design

8.    The design and components of SAL-II were largely driven by the Government's strategy, outlined in
its Letter of Development Policy (LDP) of May, 2000, which saw the restoration of robust, sustainable
growth as requiring a comprehensive program of stabilization measures and deeper structural reforms. In
addition to maintaining an appropriate medium-term macroeconomic framework, with reductions in the
current account and fiscal deficits, the program focused on reforms in five areas: (i) improvements in
budget management, (ii) reforms of pensions and social assistance, (iii) improvements in the environment
for private sector development, and sector reforms in (iv) energy and (v) agriculture. These structural
reforms were seen as needed both to reduce the fiscal (and quasi-fiscal) deficits and to raise the efficiency
of the economy over the medium term, thereby contributing to macroeconomic balance, restored growth
and a more competitive economy, smoothing the transition to EU membership. The policies in the
program and supported by the SAL thus covered a broad range of issues extensive. This was appropriate
given the significant unfinished agenda for structural reforms and the need to implement those reforms in
ways that would improve the fiscal balances and support a more efficient. sustainable growth path.

9.    Policy measures were prioritized and sequenced, and summarized in a detailed policy matrix attached
to the LDP (see Annex 1, attached below). The operation was designed to disburse in two nearly equal
tranches. The first tranche was released shortly after approval by the Bank's Board (July, 2000), in
recognition that the Government had implemented a substantial initial set of measures (Annex 1, Col. 1.)
prior to presentation of the operation to the Board. The second tranche was to be released following
implementation of a second set of measures (Annex 1, Col. 2, initially expected by June, 2001). In each of
the five reform areas, a number of core measures (shown in bold font in Annex 1, and shown separately
in Annex 9 for ease of reference) were identified as particularly critical for the operation, with the core
second tranche measures agreed as legal conditions for release of the second tranche.

10.   The operation was thus designed as a traditional 2-tranche SAL, supporting an extensive agenda of
policy reform, and containing a substantial number of conditions for the release of the second tranche (17,
including maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic framework). This design appears appropriate,
given the nature of most of the core reforms and the need to anchor the reform agenda across anticipated
changes in governments. Its size (EUR 108.29 million) was determined in close consultation with the IMF,
and was based on the program's financing needs as then projected. The financial terms and currency of the
loan (a EUR-denominated, fixed spread loan (FSL), payable in 11 years with a bullet principal repayment,
and the relevant standard variable interest rate) reflected the Borrower's choice from a widening menu of
options. The main components of the program are outlined in paragraphs 11-16 below (For the text of the
LDP and more details on the reform program and macroeconomic framework, see SAL-II President's
Report).

Specific Components:

11.   Returning to a Sustainable Macroeconomic Framework: The Government's macro-economic
program, consistent with its precautionary SBA with the IMF, focused on fiscal contraction as the main
policy instrument to stabilize the economy under a currency board. The program's first year (2000)
embodied a fiscal adjustment equivalent to 5.8 percent of GDP, to be achieved mainly from: (i) an increase



                                                     - 4 -

in payroll tax revenues; (ii) a postponement of a costly savings restitution plan; and (iii) a sharp cutback in
net lending.    Other structural reforms (notably increases in energy prices, adjustments in pension
benefits, and reductions in agricultural subsidies, see below) were expected to contribute to the overall
fiscal tightening. In this way core budget expenditures were to be largely protected. After having declined
about 4 percent in 1999, GDP was expected to grow by about 2.1 percent in 2000, 4 percent in 2001, with
growth stabilizing around 5 percent in subsequent years. The recovery was expected to be driven by
exports, reflecting improvements in external markets in the initial year, and, increasingly over time, a
reorientation and restructuring of exports towards western markets and increased productivity and
competitiveness supported by SAL-II reforms and FDI. The current account deficit was expected to fall by
about 2 percent of GDP to 9 percent in 2000, and decline further to around 6-7 percent of GDP by 2004.
The lower fiscal and current account deficits were expected to put Lithuania's debt on a sustainable path.

12.    Strengthening Budget Management. The main objectives in budget management were: (i) to contain
and better manage off-budget operations, contingent liabilities, and the budget itself through more
effective monitoring of more transparent and comprehensive government fiscal accounts and improved debt
management; (ii) to reduce incentives for and exposure to government guarantees; (iii) to eliminate
borrowing by budget units and limit and carefully monitor borrowing by extra-budgetary entities; and
(iv) to improve capacity to plan and manage implementation of the core budget, especially in the face of
severe revenue shortfalls. The first three objectives related directly to narrowing the fiscal and quasi-fiscal
deficit, while the fourth objective related to improving the efficiency of public spending, thereby supporting
growth. The complete set of reforms in this area is outlined in Section A of Annex 1 (Columns 1 and 2),
with the core measures highlighted in Annex 9.

13.    Pension and Social Assistance Reform. In the area of pension and social assistance reform, the key
objectives were: (i) to reduce the deficits and improve the incentives in the existing pay-as-you-go
(PAYGO) pension system; (ii) to prepare for and initiate a deeper pension reform that would provide a
basic level of support for all citizens and determine the role of funded pensions in both the private and
public sectors; and (iii) to lay the groundwork for subsequent reforms of social assistance programs
(including assessing how well these programs protected the vulnerable from possible short-term negative
effects of such SAL-related reforms as higher utility prices). The work on social assistance was expected
to feed into a major PHARE-funded review of Lithuania's social assistance program. (See Section B of
Annex 1 (Columns 1 and 2), and Annex 9 for more details on the specific measures for pension and social
assistance reforms.)

14.    Private Sector Development. The key objectives in the private sector development area were: (i) to
establish effective, transparent privatization procedures and employ them for the remaining major
privatizations, including privatization of the Lithuanian Savings Bank (LSB), one of the last two
remaining major public sector banks; (ii) to improve tax administration; (iii) to improve corporate
governance and shareholder rights, with a particular emphasis on effective accounting and auditing
standards and requirements; (iv) to make the enterprise bankruptcy and restructuring mechanisms more
effective; and (v) to remove barriers to entry for new business. Together these measures were expected to
support a more dynamic and competitive enterprise sector by continuing to improve the efficiency and
soundness of the banking system, by exposing enterprises to hard budget constraints while making it easier
for existing firms to redeploy assets and for new firms to start up, and by widening the scope for foreign
direct investment (FDI). The reform measures in this area are listed in the first two columns of Section C
of Annex 1, with the core measures highlighted in Annex 9.

15.    Energy Sector Reforms. The energy sector reform program was organized around the following
objectives: (i) selecting relevant market models for electricity and gas to provide a clear vision for the


                                                      - 5 -

ultimate market structures and incentives for an efficient and competitive sector; (ii) restructuring the
power and gas subsectors, starting with unbundling these enterprises in a manner consistent with the
selected market model; (iii) improving governance and management of the energy companies by
strengthening management autonomy and qualifications, and ensuring the companies are run on commercial
lines, pending their privatization; (iv) strengthening the legal and regulatory environment through new
laws and enhancing the independence and capacity of the regulatory agency ( the Energy Pricing
Commission (EPC), formally known as National Control Commission for Prices and Energy Activities);
(v) achieving economic pricing and financial stability in the energy sector by restructuring LPC's debt and
reforming energy pricing criteria; and (vi) privatizing the Lithuania Power Company (LPC) and Lithuania
Gas (LG), using best practice procedures to maximize the scope for increased efficiency, downward
pressure on prices, and revenues from the sale. A substantial increase in energy prices in January 2000
(20 percent for power, 5 percent for gas) was a particularly important step towards economic pricing and
better financial results. These reforms were expected both to increase the efficiency of the energy sector
and to stop its drain on the fiscal balance, as the sector had been one of the major sources of the
quasi-fiscal deficit. Section D, Columns 1 and 2, of Annex 1 contains the full list of energy sector reform
measures, and the core measures are listed in Annex 9.

16.   Agriculture Sector Reforms. In the agricultural sector, reforms were focused on the following
objectives: (i) increasing the transparency and reducing the cost of policy interventions by improving the
governance of the Agri-Food Market Regulation Agency (AFMRA) and limiting its claims on the budget,
and by restricting budget spending on market regulation and income support; (ii) reducing the
inconsistencies and distortions in the policy environment, particularly by reducing the scope of price
subsidies and using less distortionary interventions; and (iii) raising the competitiveness of the agri-food
sector and the vitality of the rural economy.                        Section E, Columns 1 and 2, of Annex 1 lists the
Government's full policy program in agriculture, while Annex 9 highlights the core reforms.

3.4 Revised Components:
   The original components were appropriate for achieving the program's objectives and were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
17.   This ICR rates the overall quality at entry for this operation as Satisfactory. The objectives, outlined
in paragraph 1 above, were highly relevant, both as a timely response to the immediate crisis and as
support to Lithuania's medium-term strategic objective of a smooth entry into the EU. There was strong
ownership and commitment to the program during preparation, particularly by the highly reform-oriented
government that took office in late 1999 and was in place at the time SAL-II was negotiated and approved.
This ownership drove the comprehensive content of the reform program. The operation and its objectives
were anticipated in the 1999 CAS, which also put in place an extensive program of analytic and advisory
activities (AAA) that provided the analytical underpinnings for much of the program (see Box 1).

                                              Box 1: Analytical Underpinnings of SAL-II

      The policy framework for SAL-II was supported by a variety of analytical and advisory activities, including the major report
      Lithuania: An Opportunity for Economic Success (originally prepared as background for SAL II), Lithuania - Macroeconomic and
      Financial Sector Vulnerability Review, the FIAS Study Lithuania - Administrative Barriers to Investment, agriculture policy review,
      support on pension reform, and a study of privatization options for Lithuanian Gas. The SAL was designed to complement policy
      measures being supported under ongoing and proposed World Bank projects, with a focus on social and human development. (see
      Annex 7 for detailed references)




18.   The operation also drew on the prior experience with SAL-I. As with that operation, SAL-II



                                                                    - 6 -

supported a comprehensive agenda of consistent and mutually supporting reforms. While this led to a
rather complex, multi-dimensional reform program, this was consistent both with the government's strategy
at the time and with an analytical assessment of the needs of the situation (as documented in the analyses
described in Box 1). The operation also built on and reinforced other ongoing activities, notably the Power
Rehabilitation Project, the Social Policy and Community Social Services Project, and the ongoing
preparatory work on pension reform. SAL-II was also closely coordinated with and complementary to the
IMF's Stand-by Arrangement (SBA), and to key components of the EU's Technical Assistance (TA)
program. Tax reform measures and energy price increases were examples of especially important areas of
coordination between the SBA and SAL-II.

19.    The assumptions underlying the operation appear broadly reasonable. While the macroeconomic
assumptions now appear somewhat conservative, this was appropriate given the considerable downside
risks at the time and past experience with the responsiveness of the economy. The assumption that, by
supporting an early return to growth and limiting crowding out of spending on poverty programs, the
operation would reduce poverty below what would occur in a "without SAL" scenario, also appears
reasonable. The timing of a number of the structural reforms expected by second tranche (June, 2001)
appears, with hindsight, to have been optimistic. However, this was not the view of the Government at the
time, which considered the reform agenda as urgent. It is likely that the approach intentionally taken in
SAL-II -- to set an ambitious reform timetable supported by the Government, and adjust it selectively in the
course of implementation if justified -- provided a clearer signal than to set a relaxed timetable from the
start, which could have slowed the pace of reform even more. This was also a lesson of SAL-I (SAL-I
ICR, paragraph 36). The design of the SAL as a traditional two-tranche operation was appropriate both as
an anchor for the reform program across governments and for the type of reforms that made up the bulk of
the operation.

20.    The general assessment of risks appears adequate, including the assessment of the major macro risks
associated with policy slippage and/or a significant deterioration of the external environment. Particularly
in view of the subsequent difficulties in implementation of some parts of the program, the analysis of
political risks (policy reversals in the run up to the elections expected later in 2000, the possibility of a new
government with less commitment to the reform program, and the difficult, controversial nature of some of
the reform measures [privatization, acceleration of the rise in the retirement age, cutting agricultural
subsidies]) was highly relevant, as was the discussion of the factors that reduced those risks (the broad
consensus across political lines on the need to improve economic performance and undertake reforms to
facilitate EU accession, extensive consultations with a broader group of civil society beyond the current
government, the generally positive experience with SAL-I, and the front loading of a number of key
measures [including those supported by the SBA] prior to Board presentation). The President's Report also
noted the risks associated with inadequate institutional capacity to implement some of the reforms and
pointed to systematic coordination with the EU and other donors on on-going and anticipated TA to
minimize that risk.

21.    In view of the subsequent difficulties in implementing some aspects of this operation (see paragraphs
24-25, below), it is legitimate to question whether the general risks (such as the risk of a change to a
government with different priorities), or the risks associated with specific measures were adequately
assessed. However, even with hindsight, it is difficult to identify what more could have been done to reduce
the risks. While it might have been possible to undertake more intensive consultations across party lines, or
more intensive efforts to develop consensus behind certain reforms (e.g., pension reform), or to conduct a
more explicit analysis of risks associated with certain measures (e.g., LG privatization, see paragraphs
67-68, below), it is by no means certain that, given the information available at the time the operation was
designed, such efforts would have significantly improved the outcomes, which were very positive overall.


                                                       - 7 -

This is especially the case if such efforts had substantially delayed the operation (e.g., by waiting until after
the election), since a timely response was critically important for the operation to have the desired impact.
It appeared at the time, and it appears now, that it was reasonable for the Government and the Bank to
take the risks associated with this operation. It should also be noted that there was no other response from
the Bank that could have provided the resources that Lithuania needed as quickly, or that would have
restored investor confidence as rapidly.

22.    There was no QAG Quality at Entry Assessment for this operation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
     Overall Outcomes and Achievement of Objectives:

23.    The main objectives of SAL-II, the restoration of rapid and sustainable growth within a more stable
macroeconomic framework, and the implementation of structural reforms that would both support that
framework and smooth the path to EU accession, have been largely achieved, as documented in
paragraphs 26-54 below. However, problems arose in the implementation of a few of the core second
tranche reforms, resulting in delays in second tranche release, and an extension of the closing date (from
June 2001 to June 2002). In May 2002, the Government, after reviewing its dramatically improved
financial situation and access to international capital markets, informed the Bank that it did not intend to
draw on the second tranche, and requested the operation be cancelled. As a consequence the operation was
cancelled in June, 2002 with the second tranche undisbursed. Nevertheless, as the Government noted at
the time, the measures taken before Board approval of the operation, combined with those taken
subsequently, were sufficient to achieve nearly all of the anticipated objectives.               The strong fiscal
adjustment and structural reforms undertaken by Lithuania during this period have helped restore
credibility and confidence in the economy, and have clearly demonstrated Lithuania's transition to a
functioning market economy. In large part due to this demonstrated resilience of the economy and
effective economic management, Lithuania, which previously had been expected to join the EU some years
after the first group of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) accession candidates, now finds itself firmly in
that first group, which is scheduled to join in May, 2004. Consequently, despite some shortcomings, the
ICR rates SAL-II as "Satisfactory" in the achievement of its objective and anticipated outcomes. The
ICR's overall assessment is similar to that expressed in a broader context in the Country Assistance
Evaluation (CAE) conducted by OED:

    If the Bank had not responded to Lithuania's adjustment needs with SAL I and SAL II, Lithuania's response
    to financial sector issues and the ballooning consolidated fiscal deficit would probably have been more limited.
    Progress might have been slower in key reforms such as privatization of the banking sector and moving the
    energy sector to a more competitive framework. This would have adversely affected both the efforts for
    macroeconomic stabilization and economic growth as well as accession discussions with the EU.        [Annex 7,
    item 4, paragraph 3.22]

24.    An important factor affecting the implementation of the program was the successive changes in
government, first following the elections in the fall of 2000, and second when the initial coalition broke
down in the summer of 2001. At each change there was some loss of momentum and ownership, as the
new governments established themselves and assessed the priorities of the reform program from their
different perspectives. Moreover, as the success of the reforms and the strength of recovery they supported
became evident, the financing gap shrank substantially, reducing the need for SAL-II finance and also
possibly reducing the sense of urgency for additional reforms. Despite this, commitment to reform was
strong enough to support continued progress on the reform agenda, and the number of outstanding



                                                        - 8 -

actions was progressively reduced. In June 2001, the loan closing date was extended to June 2002.

25.   By the final supervision of SAL-II in May 2002, issues remained only in the following areas: (i) the
privatization of LG (a major impasse, where there was deep concern that the approach taken by the
Government would not lead to the desired outcome); (ii) the privatization of LPC's distribution networks
(where the Bank supervision team agreed with the Lithuanian authorities that it was no longer appropriate
that the networks be offered for sale before tranche release, and was prepared to seek a waiver of this
condition); and (iii) agricultural sector reforms (where the Bank team was willing to accept a Government
commitment that policy reversals in 2001 would be terminated and not repeated, but the Ministry of
Finance was concerned that it would be difficult to make such a commitment credibly). In addition, in the
area of long-term reform of the pension system, the agreed output was achieved (presentation to Seimas
(the Lithuanian Parliament) of satisfactory reform proposals), but the desired outcome was not realized (as
the Seimas did not adopt the proposals). Even in these problematic areas, however, some significant
progress was achieved, particularly in terms of short-to-medium-term measures to limit the fiscal deficit.
At the end of the May 2002 supervision mission, the Government, in view of its substantially improved
financial situation and restored access to world capital markets, requested that the SAL be cancelled
before release of the second tranche. While this also meant that the Government no longer had a formal
requirement to resolve the issues outstanding with the Bank, it is important to note that in most areas
progress continued to be made after the loan was cancelled. The following paragraphs will review the
outputs and outcomes achieved in each area of SAL-II, as well as those that were not achieved.

4.2 Outputs by components:
     Macroeconomic Framework

26.   Table 1 (see below) compares Lithuania's actual economic outcomes with the macroeconomic
projections and assumptions underlying SAL-II (See SAL-II President's Report, Annex 1). Lithuania's
macroeconomic indicators improved significantly after the introduction of the SAL-II-supported program
in 2000, and nearly all indicators improved by more than originally projected. GDP growth and export
growth have been faster than expected, while inflation, the current account deficit, and external
indebtedness have been lower. The fiscal deficit fell sharply in the first year, and has continued to decline
subsequently. While not reaching the zero balance originally projected, the fiscal deficit has remained
within the performance criteria of the ongoing IMF SBAs (a second precautionary SBA was approved in
August 2001). In sum, the macroeconomic outcomes substantially exceeded those expected at the onset
of SAL-II: growth has been more robust, and the economy has become less vulnerable, with the fiscal and
current account deficits and the debt burden substantially reduced.           This outcome is particularly
impressive given that it was achieved as the world economy began to slow down.

27.   Moreover, the recovery has been accompanied by substantial restructuring, seen most clearly in the
export sector: exports of goods and non-factor services have grown rapidly (reaching 52 percent of GDP in
2002, from less than 40 percent in 1999); their composition has been restructured to reflect Lithuania's
comparative advantage (with a rising share of labor- intensive manufactured goods); and their direction has
shifted as Lithuania has been increasingly able to penetrate EU and other non-CIS markets, sharply
reducing the economy's dependence on, and vulnerability to, traditional CIS markets. The share of
Lithuania's exports bought by OECD countries has risen from 48 percent of total exports in 1998 to 60
percent in 2002; during the same period, the share of exports to CIS countries fell from 35.7 percent to
19.3 percent. The flexibility and resilience demonstrated by the economy is likely to reflect two factors: (i)
the cumulative effect of successive reforms in the incentive structure and in the enterprise sector since
independence; and (ii) the increasingly hard budget constraints faced by firms as the banking sector reforms
took hold and sources of budget (and off-budget) subsidies to enterprises were narrowed, in line with the



                                                    - 9 -

sharp fiscal contraction.

                                                  Table 1: Macroeconomic Indicators
                                                                        1997 1998       1999      2000      2001       2002 (est.)
                    Real GDP Growth (% p.a.)
                                                       Actual/Est. 7.3          5.1      -3.9      3.8       5.9           5.9
                                                    Est./Projected                       -4.1      2.1       4.0           5.0
                 Real Export Growth (% p.a.)
                                                       Actual/Est. 18.7         0.7     -16.1     12.9      20.8           13.0
                                                    Est./Projected                      -18.3      7.3       8.4           8.6
                   Fiscal Balance (% of GDP)
                                                       Actual/Est. -1.8        -5.9      -8.5      -2.8      -1.9          -1.2
                                                    Est./Projected                       -8.6      -2.8      0.0           0.0
           Current Account Balance (% of GDP)
                                                       Actual/Est. -10.2 -12.1 -11.2               -6.0      -4.8          -4.4
                                                    Est./Projected                      -11.2      -9.0      -8.3          -7.7
              Gross External Debt (% of GDP)
                                                       Actual/Est. 34.0 34.8            42.5      43.0      43.9           38.8
                                                    Est./Projected 32.8 33.3            40.7      42.0      45.0           45.9
                          Inflation (% p.a.)
                                                       Actual/Est. 8.9          5.1      0.8       1.0       1.3           0.3
                                                    Est./Projected                       0.8       2.0       2.0           2.2
     Sources: "Est./Projected" from Annex 1, SAL-II President's Report (Report No. P 7387 LT); "Actual/Est." from Lithuanian
     Department of Statistics, Bank of Lithuania, and IMF staff reports.


28.    The recovery has led to strong gains in investor confidence, reflected in higher ratings for
Lithuania's foreign borrowing (ratings were upgraded by Moody's and Fitch-IBCA in December, 2002, and
by Standard and Poor's in February, 2003), and much lower spreads on Lithuania's Eurobond issues (down
to 94 basis points for 10-year bonds in May, 2002, compared to 400 basis points in the fall of 1999 (at the
depth of the economic crisis), and to 254 basis points in February 2000 (when the market anticipated the
Government's program and upcoming agreements with the IMF and World Bank) for 5-year bonds).
Foreign Direct Investment has also risen somewhat more rapidly than in the SAL-II projections, from US$
378 million (3.3 percent of GDP) in 2000 to US$ 640 million (4.7 percent of GDP) in 2002, though its
level is still low when compared with other CEE countries.

29.    While more difficult to quantify, it is likely that the rapid and robust recovery of growth and
exports helped to reduce the impact of the economic crisis on the depth and duration of poverty, and has
helped set the stage for sustained poverty reduction. The crisis caused a drop in income, production and
employment, particularly in those areas of the economy that were less competitive and/or highly dependent
on CIS markets (e.g., agriculture). Inevitably, this led to a rise in poverty in the short run. The recovery
has helped to reverse this trend, by generating incomes and new jobs in products and markets where
Lithuania is able to compete effectively, thus offsetting the (unavoidable) loss of non-viable jobs. The
initial rise in unemployment that began in 1998 (see paragraph 5 above), peaked at 13.2 percent in 2001
(Q1) before subsiding to 10.9 percent at the end of 2002. This drop in unemployment probably reflects
both relatively high rates of job creation, as well as a slowdown in job shedding, as the stock of non-viable
jobs declined. The incidence of poverty (measured using the 1996 relative poverty line adjusted for
inflation) rose from 13.2 percent of the population in 1998 to 16.8 percent in 2001, as the lagged effects of
the crisis became reflected in household income. The incidence of relative poverty, measured in current




                                                                   - 10 -

prices and consumption levels, remained stable during this period at around 16 percent. As data for
subsequent years become available, it is likely that the poverty incidence will decline, reflecting the drop in
unemployment and the general recovery in real wages and jobs.             There is serious concern that the
unemployment rate may stabilize and decline only slowly from its still relatively high level. Nevertheless,
without the recovery of growth and job creation that the Government's program supported, an even deeper
loss of jobs and larger increase in poverty would have occurred. With this recovery, Lithuania has a
chance to maintain a high growth path in a stable macro framework, enabling a sustained rise in
incomes towards EU levels, and a steady reduction in poverty and unemployment in the medium term.

30.   The risks to sustaining the recovery, and remaining on a high growth path needed to converge with
EU, will be discussed below in the section on sustainability.

Budget Management

31.   The main objectives in the Budget Management component (see paragraph 12 above) have been
achieved, and all the core measures (see Annex 9) have been substantively implemented, leading to a
fully Satisfactory rating for this component. In terms of outcomes, as noted above, the consolidated
general government fiscal deficit has declined by more than 7 percent of GDP between 1999 and 2002,
indicating clearly much more disciplined management of the public sector accounts.                Supervision
missions documented that "the concept of consolidated government is sinking in and at the center of fiscal
policy debate..." (Back to Office Report (BTO), 19 June 2001), and that there had been "significant steps
to improve overall fiscal control, including increased supervision of parts of the public sector outside the
state budget..." (Aide Memoire, 8 June 2001). The Finance Ministry began preparing and using quarterly
statements of public sector borrowing on a consolidated basis (BTO, 30 October 2001). A plan and
timetable for implementing improved consolidated government accounts, including their reconciliation with
GFS and ESA-95 classifications, were approved by the Finance Ministry and fiscal projections using the
ESA methodology were prepared in 2002. EU-PHARE TA began in February 2003 to determine (and
provide) what additional technical and institutional underpinnings may be needed in this area.

32.   The Government also has improved management of both foreign and domestic debt in line with
previously agreed plans, enabling a more effective monitoring of public liabilities and the potential
impact of contingent liabilities. This initial progress is being followed up with TA from a World Bank IDF
grant requested by the Government to further improve the asset and liability data base and debt
management capacity, as well as improve risk management analysis. Guidelines for state guarantees have
been issued, reducing them in stages from Ltl. 691 million in 2000 to zero in 2003. Guarantees through
guarantee institutions have also been reduced, and risk sharing has been introduced by limiting guarantees
to 80 percent of loan amounts. Guaranteed loans have been classified and provisions for them included in
the three-year budget framework.

33.   A new Law on Budget Structure (passed in 2000) has prohibited borrowing by budget
appropriation managers, and borrowing by the major extra-budgetary entities has been closely
monitored and significantly reduced. The Finance Ministry has taken over the debt and borrowing
operations of SoDra (the Social Insurance Board), dramatically reducing SoDra's borrowing costs and
containing its borrowing levels as SoDra's cash flow moved out of deficit, achieving a surplus of over Ltl.
117 million in 2002 (resulting from the PAYGO reforms discussed below). AFMRA's losses have been
reduced, as have its outstanding loans, and its governance and oversight structure have been strengthened
(see agricultural sector reforms discussed below). While the municipalities still face serious unresolved
financial problems, their financial situation has improved, reflecting mainly the strong economic recovery.
The annual Budget Law sets limits on municipal borrowing; the Finance Ministry monitors municipal


                                                     - 11 -

finances closely and has made transfers to municipalities for clearance of arrears conditional on prior
reduction in the stock of arrears.

34.    Finally, there have been some improvements in the planning and management of the core budget.
Budget forecasts are being made, and incorporated into a three-year budget planning framework. For
example, the 2003 budget included a medium-term macroeconomic projection with underlying assumptions,
published on the internet, and a detailed estimate of the impact of changes in the tax code. All legislation
with financial implications must now be accompanied by a note assessing its budget impact before the
cabinet will consider it. Internal audit functions have been strengthened as well. The Ministry of Finance
made some initial reductions in the number of appropriation managers, but the process has halted due to a
Constitutional Court decision.     While efforts are underway to introduce program and performance
budgeting concepts, these are still at early stages of application and will need more time and continued
effort to become effective strategic policy tools.

Pension and Social Assistance Reform

35.    In this component of the program, the Government achieved only part of its objectives (see
paragraph 13), even though all the core measures (see Annex 9) were carried out.                 On balance,
implementation in this component is rated Satisfactory, despite the limited progress in building the
political consensus for a deeper, longer-term pension reform. The major achievements were a range of
measures, prepared by the Government and passed by the Seimas, to improve the financial balance and the
incentive structure of the PAYGO system. These constituted the first core measure in this reform area and
included accelerating the rate of increase in the retirement age (increasing it by 6 months a year for both
men and women, instead of the previous 2 months per year (for men) and 4 months (for women), eventually
to reach the retirement ages of 62.5 for men, 60 for women determined in earlier reforms); new indexing
rules for pension benefits (new rules for calculating average insured income); greater incentives to delay
retirement; and a reduction in benefits for pensioners who continue to work. In addition, eligibility
conditions for sickness and maternity benefits were tightened, resulting in a Ltl. 115 million (more than 25
percent) decline in spending on these benefits in 2001, and a further decline of nearly 2 percent in 2002.
The much more active oversight of SoDra's finances by the Finance Ministry, and the assumption of part of
its debt, sharply reduced SoDra's borrowing costs (from over Ltl. 30 million in 2000 and 2001, to less than
Ltl. 17 million in 2002). These significant and difficult measures, combined with the recovery of the
economy, have led to substantial improvements in SoDra's financial balances, at least in the short term:
SoDra's cash flow improved progressively from a deficit of over Ltl. 284 million in 1999, to a surplus of
over Ltl. 117 million in 2002. However, a recent court decision reversed the measures limiting payments to
working pensioners, and this, combined with other benefit increases, will eliminate most of SoDra's
hard-won surplus in 2003. In addition, plans were developed, and laws enacted, for the State Tax
Inspectorate (STI) to take over responsibility from SoDra for collecting and auditing pension contributions
and ensuring greater compliance, but the timetable for their implementation is uncertain.

36.    Despite the substantial progress in improving the finances of the PAYGO system, the longer-term
objective of implementing a deeper pension reform, that would result in a basic level of support for all
citizens and would be financially sustainable in the long run, remains elusive. The Government prepared
a well-designed, more fundamental reform program, with a mandatory funded second pillar as its
centerpiece, and submitted it to the Seimas in October 2001, thus fulfilling the tranche release condition.
However, the Seimas did not pass it. There were two additional steps taken that constituted another core
measure in this area. First, the danger that costly supplemental benefits would be added to the pensions of
state sector employees was prevented through an amendment to the Civil Service Law that eliminated
provisions for such benefits (instead of the alternative of putting such benefits on a separate funded basis).


                                                    - 12 -

Second, the Seimas passed state-of-the-art legislation establishing the legal and regulatory framework for
privately-managed pension funds that could eventually underpin a sound second and third pillar for the
pension system. However, no such pension funds have yet been established. Until very recently, these
funds were subject to less favorable tax treatment than pension insurance products, which are also subject
to less rigorous prudential supervision. The new Tax Law eliminated the tax advantage. Now the concern
is to ensure that pension insurance products will be subject to the same high regulatory standards that have
been established for pension funds.

37.    Recently (December, 2002), the Seimas approved legislation establishing a voluntary funded second
pillar, under which workers can chose to allocate a portion their 34 percent payroll contribution (initially
set at 2.5 percentage points, ultimately rising up to 5.5 percentage points) to a privately-managed
retirement account. New pension fund legislation is being developed, and is expected to be presented to
Seimas in May 2003, to ensure that the legal and regulatory framework is in place by year-end, in time to
implement the new program. However, the number of employees taking this option is likely to be rather
small, and concentrated mainly in the higher income groups, leaving the long-term outlook for most
pensioners, and for the pension system itself, largely unchanged. The legislative and administrative steps
that will need to be taken to implement the voluntary program might make an eventual transition to a
mandatory system easier to implement, when and if the political consensus for such a reform develops. For
the present, however, while some progress has been made on some elements of the legal and regulatory
framework for a deeper pension reform, the fundamental issue--how the system can be made financially
sustainable once the projected demographic transition inexorably increases the numbers of pensioners
relative to the number of contributors--remains unresolved.

38.    In the area of social assistance reform, the program's objectives were limited to preparing the
groundwork for subsequent reforms, supporting a major review of the social assistance system that the
Government has undertaken utilizing TA from EU-PHARE. These objectives were broadly met. Studies
were undertaken and information systems are being improved to permit better monitoring and evaluation,
that can be used to make social assistance more effective, especially in the area of adjusting benefits to
protect the most vulnerable from energy price increases related to the reform program. This on-going work
was closely coordinated with and supported by the Bank-assisted Social Policy and Community Social
Service Project. The Government introduced several improvements in its social assistance mechanisms
and appears to have been reasonably successful in protecting the poor from the effects of higher prices
for district heating, the form of energy most used by low-income households. Important additional laws in
the area of social protection are currently under preparation, including a new Cash Social Assistance Law
(submitted to Seimas in November 2002), and a new Unemployment Insurance Law, expected to be
submitted in the second quarter of 2003.

Private Sector Development

39.    The objectives of the private sector development component (see paragraph 14 above), have been
mostly achieved, and further progress continues to be made on several elements in the context of the
Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP). All of the core measures in this area were implemented, as
well as the bulk of the non-core measures, resulting in a Satisfactory rating for progress under this
component.     The objective of using effective, transparent procedures for important privatizations
(including all those with assets over Ltl. 40 million), was successfully realized, and the procedures have
been applied to such firms as Geonafta (an oil extraction company) and LISCO (a shipping company). The
process continues to be applied to the relatively few remaining large privatizations. The privatizations of
the Agricultural Bank of Lithuania (ABL) and the Lithuanian Savings Bank (LSB)(the latter a core
measure) also used these procedures and brought the two largest remaining state-owned banks into the


                                                   - 13 -

private sector. More generally, reflecting more than six years of major reforms, Lithuania's banking sector
been completely privatized and has shown substantial improvements in soundness (significant declines in
non-performing loans) and profitability (a more than doubling of returns on equity since end 2000). The
privatization of the main energy enterprises is discussed below with the energy sector reforms.

40.   In the area of tax administration, a number of useful preparatory steps were taken as part of the
Government's program under SAL-II, with most of the measures (all non-core) implemented at least in part.
These efforts culminated in new legislation on tax administration, which complements a number of new
tax policy laws, and is expected to yield as much as Ltl. 40 million in increased revenues in 2003. Tax
policy reforms removed a number of special concessions and consolidated, simplified, and reduced
corporate tax rates (from an average of 29 percent to 24 percent in 2001 and further to 15 percent (13
percent for SMEs) starting in 2003).          Together, the measures should help improve the operating
environment for private businesses.

41.   The objective of improving corporate governance and shareholder rights was supported by passage
of new accounting laws in November 2001 (core measure). World Bank reviews found the draft laws
satisfactory. The subsequent FSAP review found the new accounting laws brought Lithuania's accounting
requirements significantly closer to both International Accounting Standards (IAS) and EU directives. The
FSAP also identified a number of areas where follow-up and capacity building are needed to implement the
new legislation effectively. In response to a Government request for TA support in this area, a TA project
is under preparation with funding to be provided through the Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening
(FIRST) Initiative. In addition, steps were taken to strengthen securities market regulation under the
Lithuanian Securities Commission. The FSAP found that "the regulatory structure for capital markets is
adequate for the time being, and in fact, appears to be ahead of the market...", but also identified priority
areas for follow-up and capacity building (Annex 7, item 5, p.180).

42.   Enterprise bankruptcy and restructuring mechanisms were improved with the passage by the
Seimas of a new law on enterprise restructuring, acceptable to the Bank, in March 2001 (a second tranche
condition). FSAP reviewed the bankruptcy and restructuring mechanisms and identified a number of
important areas where capacity and implementation need to be improved for effective implementation.
Despite these difficulties (and a growing backlog of bankruptcies due to the 1998-2000 economic crisis),
the ratio of resolved cases to new cases has shown significant improvement, rising from 0.19 in 1999 to
0.62 in 2002 (Source: Ministry of Economy, unpublished note). EU-PHARE is providing supporting TA to
help implement the enterprise restructuring legislation.

43.   Finally, several barriers to development of new business were reduced, in line with the 1999
Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) report: (i) foreign companies were allowed to operate in
certain previously-restricted sectors (e.g., chemicals and pharmaceuticals and alcoholic beverages), leaving
a very narrow restricted list; (ii) land sale and registration procedures were simplified; (iii) licensing fees
were reduced and made uniform for domestic and foreign applicants; (iv) a requirement that all invoices
and receipts use costly and impractical state-printed forms is being phased out; and (v) tax rates were
lowered and simplified as indicated above (Annex 7, item 6).

Energy Sector Reforms

44.   With two important exceptions, substantial progress has been made on nearly all the energy sector
objectives supported by SAL-II (see paragraph 15 above), resulting in an overall Satisfactory rating for
this component. First, EU-consistent market models, promoting competition, regional integration and
third-party access, were adopted and embodied in gas and power legislation. Second, the regulatory


                                                    - 14 -

framework and institution were strengthened as planned, by updating the relevant legislation and
broadening the regulatory scope of the Energy Pricing Commission (EPC). The appointment process and
term of the EPC's chairperson were designed to protect the EPC's independence from Government
intervention. Though the EPC still depends on budget allocations for its funding, a recent review of
Lithuania's power sector found that "the [energy pricing] commission enjoys considerable autonomy and
has been provided with adequate resources "... including competent staff, and that its procedures are
transparent." [Private Sector Participation in the Power Sector in ECA Countries: Lessons Learnt from
the Last Decade; Annex 7, item 7, p. 71]. The EPC has demonstrated its independence in 2002 by
maintaining a price increase it had authorized even after the Cabinet had voted against it. Third, the
Government took steps to improve Lithuania Power Company (LPC) and Lithuania Gas (LG)
managements and the skills and procedures of their supervisory boards. Fourth, both LPC and LG have
improved their financial performance significantly, with LPC's debt service coverage ratio rising from less
than 0.4 in 1998 to 2.0 by end-2000, and LG's profits increasing over 300 percent in 2002 to Ltl. 57
million. These financial improvements reflect: (i) the price increases in January 2000 (5 percent for gas; 20
percent for power), followed in early 2002 by an additional 5 percent increase for power; (ii) favorable
exchange rate movements; (iii) improved management and financial discipline; and (iv) for LPC a
significant debt restructuring.   Despite this significant progress, two of the second tranche release
conditions were not met: the offer for sale to international strategic investors of: (i) at least 51 percent of
the Lithuania Power Company's (LPC's) distribution network; and (ii) at least 41 percent of Lithuania Gas
(LG). However, as outlined in the following paragraphs, these two cases have different implications for
achievement of the program's overall objectives: in LPC's case the objectives have been substantially
achieved already; in LG's case the privatization process is still underway and the outcome less clear.

45.   The outcomes so far from LPC's case indicate that most of the objectives have been achieved, and
the remainder are likely to be achieved in the future. The May 2002 SAL-II Supervision Mission noted
that LPC had unbundled as planned into 5 companies (2 distribution units, 2 generation units, and the
remaining national grid). All the new companies appeared to be operating profitably, and the distribution
units were "practically ready for privatization". However, the Government proposed to delay offering the
two distribution companies for sale for some months, so that the companies could establish a track record
under the new regime, and thus possibly attract more potential buyers and a higher sale price. The Mission
agreed, noting that "the restructuring of the electricity sector as well as the establishment of rules and
pricing to enable Third Party Access by Qualified Customers have enabled the Government to achieve
nearly all the benefits expected from the reform program" (Aide Memoire, 14 May 2002, p. 2).
Consequently the mission was "prepared to recommend...that a waiver be requested from the World Bank's
Board concerning this condition." This appears to have been a reasonable approach. The Government still
expects to offer the distribution units for sale later this year, despite some delay as the Government is
contracting new advisors for the sale. [For a more complete description of LPC's transformation, see
Annex 7, item 7, pp. 64-72, cited above, as well as the draft ICR for the Power Rehabilitation Project,
Annex 7, item 8].

46.   The outcomes for LG's privatization are more complex and more ambiguous, in part because the
privatization process is still underway, and in part because LG's market structure makes it a rather
unique case. [See "Privatization and Company Review, Lithuania Gas" (Annex 7, item 9), for an analysis
of LG and its privatization options; and "Regional Study of Regulatory Reform and Supply/Demand for
Natural Gas, The Baltics, Poland, South-eastern Europe", February 2003 draft (Annex 7, item 10), for a
very recent description of gas market structure and issues]. Three aspects of LG's market structure are
particularly important in determining its privatization options. First, while LG owns and operates virtually
the entire gas distribution and transmission network in Lithuania, over the past decade its main business
has shifted from selling gas directly to customers to transporting gas through its distribution system. In


                                                     - 15 -

2002 it sold about 20 percent of the gas consumed in Lithuania. It transported the rest, on behalf of either
the fertilizer factory (which has a direct purchase agreement with Gazprom and consumes about 30 percent
of Lithuania's total annual consumption) or intermediary companies (which also buy gas from Gazprom
and sell mainly to the larger, more stable customers, as well as to LG). Second, given LG's relatively small
size, splitting up or unbundling the company was not considered a viable option (except for the spin-off of
its separate liquid petroleum gas (LPG) business, which was successfully done). Third, for its gas supply,
LG depends entirely on Gazprom, a Russian firm which is the world's largest gas company, producing 23
percent of world output. Gazprom provides all of LG's gas either directly, or indirectly through the
intermediaries mentioned above (which are reportedly Lithuanian-Russian joint ventures linked to
Gazprom). These intermediaries also depend entirely on Gazprom for their gas supplies. Gazprom controls
all gas import channels into Lithuania and its monopoly position in supplying gas to Lithuania is expected
to continue for the foreseeable future. Gazprom's prices to Lithuania have been significantly lower than
those to other countries in the region (e.g., Poland), and its prices to the intermediaries have been lower
than those to LG. The commercial reason for Gazprom to offer cheaper gas to the intermediaries is not
clear, nor is it clear what additional value these intermediaries bring to Lithuania's gas sector.

47.    The Government's original stated approach to privatizing LG was to seek a strong, reputable buyer
for at least 51 percent of LG's shares. However, in case such an investor did not materialize, the
Government wanted the flexibility to retain control of the company. Since about 8 percent of the shares
were already in private hands, this meant the Government was willing to commit to selling at least 41
percent of the shares to strategic investors. This was agreed during negotiations as a second tranche
release condition (Agreed Minutes of Negotiations, May 2000, p. 5). It was also agreed (for this and other
large privatizations) that if the strategic investor did not purchase an absolute majority of shares,
management control would be provided to the investor through a shareholders' agreement (Annex 7, item
11, p. 4).

48.    However, the process moved slowly as two successive Governments reviewed the approach. In
September, 2001, the new Government proposed a different privatization model, reflecting concerns that
the original model might lead to conflicts with the monopoly supplier that could cause supply disruptions
and/or higher prices. The earlier privatization of the Mazeikiu Nafta (MN) oil refinery had encountered
such problems (among others), which eventually forced the foreign investor to sell off its stake to a
Russian company. Consequently, the Government proposed selling 34 percent of the shares (a blocking
minority) to a strategic investor, and up to 34 percent to gas suppliers (i.e., Gazprom or its
intermediaries). With 8 percent of the shares already outstanding, this would mean the Government would
retain about 25 percent of the shares. A similar ownership structure had emerged from the privatization of
the national gas companies of Estonia and Latvia, with Gazprom and its affiliates owning either a
substantial minority (46 percent in Estonia) or a majority (Latvia). There was also a possibility that such a
structure would induce the two large shareholders to compete, and bid up the price of, any additional shares
that the Government might sell (as had happened in Latvia).
49.    In responding to this proposal, the Bank noted two problems: (i) the strategic investor would not
have effective operational control, and hence would not be willing to pay as high a price for the shares;
and (ii), the gas supplier's blocking share could prevent any meaningful competition for gas supply. In
effect, such an arrangement could lead to an internal conflict of interest in such areas as supply contract
negotiations and investment decisions. To resolve these problems, the Bank proposed a shareholders'
agreement, under which the Government would (i) agree to vote its shares with the strategic investor on all
issues (except for the sale or wind-up of the company); and (ii) provide the strategic investor with a right of
first refusal in case the Government decided to sell more shares.

50.    In the event, the Government eventually adopted a shareholders' agreement that, in effect, would


                                                      - 16 -

require the strategic investor and the gas supplier to agree on all important issues, and would prevent
the Government from using its shares to resolve potential conflicts. The agreement (still not finalized)
emerged from active negotiations between Gazprom and a consortium of Ruhrgas (Germany's largest gas
distributor) and E.ON (Germany's largest power company). By that stage (early 2002) this consortium,
which already had major stakes in the privatized Latvian and Estonian gas companies, was the only
strategic investor remaining interested in purchasing a major stake in LG. The agreement stipulated that
the investor and the gas supplier would each have 2 votes, the Government would have one vote, and all
important decisions would require an 80 percent majority, or 4 votes. This would imply that the strategic
investor would not have operational control and would be dependent on the gas supplier for all major
decisions. It also would mean the Government's vote would have no impact on most decisions. The Bank
advised the Government to amend the shareholders' agreement to correct these problems, but the
arrangements were not changed. The sale of the 34 percent stake to the Ruhrgas-E.ON consortium was
completed in June 2002 for a purchase price of about Ltl. 150 million (of which Ltl. 116 was paid
initially). The offer of the second 34 percent stake (for sale to gas suppliers) was announced; negotiations
with Gazprom are still ongoing.

51.    The outcomes of this approach to privatization of LG, which is still unfolding, can be fully
evaluated only in the long run. So far the company is partially privatized, and the new strategic investor is
reported to be taking steps to streamline the company's operations and improve its financial management.
Thanks to this, and the pricing and other measures noted above, LG is now operating profitably, and there
is much less chance that it will be a source of fiscal or quasi-fiscal deficits. The Ruhrgas/E.ON
consortium is reported to be fully satisfied with the draft shareholders agreement. Other outcomes are less
clear. First, it is unclear that the privatization process followed for LG will maximize the payments that
the Government will ultimately receive from the transactions. Since only one strategic investor actively bid
for the initial 34 percent stake, the effect of competitive market forces in determining the price was limited.
Moreover, it is still uncertain that Gazprom will purchase the 34 percent share offered them, or at what
price. Negotiations with Gazprom continue, reportedly around a price significantly lower than that paid by
the Ruhrgas/E.ON consortium. Second, longer-term risks remain from the potential conflict of interest
within LG's ownership (if the Gazprom deal is finalized), but some safeguards are reportedly built into the
draft shareholder's agreement in terms of the process and criteria for supply contracts. Moreover, it is
possible that improvements already made in the regulatory framework (EPC), as well as those underway in
accounting and auditing requirements, along with the convergence with EU's competition and regulatory
policies, will eventually provide a countervailing forces to protect the interests of the Lithuanian consumer.

Agriculture

52.    There has been significant progress towards the agriculture sector objectives supported by SAL-II
(see paragraph 16 above), resulting in a Satisfactory rating for progress under this component. Despite
some temporary policy reversals, all core measures were implemented, and progress was sustained
following cancellation of the loan.       First, fiscal transparency has been increased and the cost of
interventions lowered by: (i) improvements in AFMRA's governance structure (by including Ministry of
Finance and Ministry of Economy representation on its governing board), financial controls (through both
State Audit and external private audit), and operating procedures; (ii) improvements in AFMRA's financial
outcomes (with continuing reductions in past accumulated debt and declining claims on the budget); and
(iii) substantial reductions in total agricultural spending (down nearly 18 percent between 2000 and
2001, with reductions concentrated in market regulation and income support (down 28 percent) [all
figures adjusted for reclassification of sugar subsidy expenditure]. There were some temporary policy
reversals in 2001 (notably the reintroduction of minimum foodgrain and ex-factory sugar prices), reflecting
strong political pressure from farming groups, and resulting in an unsatisfactory rating for this component


                                                     - 17 -

in the PSRs of subsequent supervision missions.           However, despite this setback, spending declined
significantly in 2001, and these interventions were withdrawn in 2002 in line with understandings
reached in the May 2002 supervision mission. If it had not been for exceptional spending for drought
relief, spending in 2002 would have declined further. The May 2002 mission proposed an approach,
subsequently implemented by the government, that would have restored this component to satisfactory
status, but the loan was cancelled before this could happen.

53.    Second, there was progress towards a less distorting policy environment, with both the substantial
reduction in the spending on interventions noted above, and a shift towards less distorting interventions (
e.g., the complete elimination of export subsidies in line with WTO agreements, and replacing minimum
prices and price subsidies with mechanisms (such as payments based on registered crop area and certain
classes of livestock) that are less distorting and closer to those used in the EU). To support implementation
of such interventions, systems for land and crop declaration and animal registration were introduced and
improved. Moreover, a new law on agriculture and rural development, which came into effect in January,
2003, removed the legal basis for Government setting minimum prices. In addition, the quantities of sugar
eligible for subsidies have been reduced by over 8 percent between 2002 and 2003. These measures have
reduced somewhat the substantial distortions prevailing in 2000 (See Country Economic Memorandum,
pp.53-81, Annex 7, item 12). Though political pressures could cause some limited temporary policy
reversals (such as the potential reintroduction of milk price interventions for the summer of 2003), the
approach of EU accession is likely to continue to move Lithuania's agricultural policies towards
consistency and convergence with EU, leading to further reductions in distortions and less year-to-year
fluctuation in policies. [See also Annex 7, item 13, Agricultural Situation in the Candidate Countries,
Country Report on Lithuania, pp. 27-31, for a more systematic analysis of recent trends in agricultural
policies and spending].

54.    Finally, export performance suggests some improvements in the competitiveness of the agri-food
sector and the dynamism of the rural economy. Agricultural exports rose sharply between 1999 and
2001, increasing by more than 50 percent over the two-year period and more than offsetting the collapse in
exports in 1998 and 1999. Moreover, the direction and composition of agricultural and food exports has
changed in important ways: the quality-conscious EU market has now replaced the CIS as the most
important destination for Lithuania's agricultural exports, and the higher value-added products (prepared
foods, beverages and tobacco) now constitute the largest component of agricultural exports (surpassing
livestock and livestock products in 2001). This suggests that Lithuania has become more competitive in
higher value-added products in more discerning markets. The recent Constitutional amendment allowing
domestic and foreign legal entities and foreign individuals to purchase agricultural land, should eventually
improve efficiency in land and credit markets. Its long phase-in for foreign ownership (7 years), however,
means it will be a long time before the full benefits show up in improved productivity and competitiveness
in production. The virtual stagnation in total agricultural exports in 2002 (with declines in CIS markets
offsetting substantial increases in exports to EU, Baltic and US markets), indicates that a sustained effort
will be needed to support the longer-term growth of the sector and the rural economy, including efforts to
remove remaining distortions and improve land and credit markets in order to increase productivity and
competitiveness.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
       Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
       Not Applicable.




                                                      - 18 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
55.    The reform program supported by SAL-II both drew on and reinforced efforts to develop a wide
range of institutions essential for the effective functioning of a modern market economy. Continued
progress in many of these areas is being followed up through TA from several donors (including the Bank),
through utilization of the very substantial EU pre-accession grants for administrative capacity building
(Ltl. 498 million in 2003 alone), and, in a number of important areas, under the Financial Sector
Assessment Program (FSAP).

56.    The following list highlights some of the key institutional developments in each of the main reform
areas: (i) in macroeconomic and budget management: development and use of improved consolidated fiscal
accounts (followed up by EU-PHARE TA on implementing ESA-95 methodology); improved debt
management (followed up by a World Bank IDF grant); and procedures for better oversight of the fiscal
impact of extra-budgetary operations; (ii) in pension and social assistance reform: better financial
management of SoDra; a new law on privately-managed pension funds; and analytical work (followed by
extensive EU-PHARE TA) to help prepare social assistance reforms; (iii) in private sector development:
use of transparent, effective procedures for privatizations; privatization of LSB; new tax policy and tax
administration legislation; new accounting legislation, improvement in securities market regulation; a new
law on enterprise restructuring; and improvements in bankruptcy mechanisms; (iv) in the energy sector, the
emergence of EPC (which had benefited from substantial capacity-building assistance from USAID) as an
effective autonomous regulatory agency; and the management improvements and restructuring of LPC
(also reinforced by the Bank's long involvement with LPC through the Power Rehabilitation Project); and
(v) in the agriculture sector, important improvements in AFMRA's governance structure and operations;
and implementation of systems for land, crop and livestock registration to enable less distortionary forms of
rural support.

57.    This is a very significant institutional reform program that merits a substantial impact rating. It
should be emphasized, however, that while SAL-II focused attention and priority on these institutional
developments, it complemented and reinforced other interventions (e.g., EU-PHARE TA, USAID TA, the
Power Rehabilitation Project), without which the full impact on institutional development would not have
been achieved. Moreover, this is an ongoing process which will need to be deepened and broadened as the
major training, capacity building, and institutional development programs associated with EU accession are
implemented.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
58.    While the overall implementation of SAL-II was satisfactory and nearly all of the expected objectives
and outcomes realized, implementation took longer than originally expected, with the Loan Closing Date
extended from June 2001 to June 2002 to allow tranche release conditions to be implemented, and, as noted
above, some reforms encountered significant obstacles.

59.    The slower than expected implementation of SAL-II reforms reflects both the ambition of the original
timetable and rather frequent changes in government (three different governments were involved in
implementation), as each new government needed time to assess how SAL-II reforms fit within its own
priorities. Despite some delay, the direction of reforms remained constant (with some exceptions, see
below). This suggests a broad consensus behind reforms. While government ownership towards the end of
the operation may not have been as strong as it had been initially with the government that had prepared the
reform program, it was strong enough to drive continued progress. Other factors outside government
control include actions by the Constitutional Court (which halted Government efforts to reduce the number



                                                     - 19 -

of budget line items and appropriation mergers, and also recently reversed Government policies limiting
pension benefits to working pensioners) and by the Seimas (which did not approve the fundamental pension
reform submitted by the government in 2001).            While these factors may have limited program
implementation, they also signal that the mechanisms of an effective competitive democracy are
functioning.    Over time, this should lead to broad consensus behind reforms and enhance their
sustainability.

60.    Other factors beyond the Government's direct control include the slowdown in the world economy,
combined with the appreciation of the Litas (which was pegged to the US dollar until February 2002 and to
the Euro subsequently). This could threaten the sustainability of Lithuania's economic recovery, lead to a
slowdown in growth in exports, GDP and jobs. However, the economy's strong performance so far despite
these factors suggests a substantial resilience. Finally, as indicated below (paragraphs 67-68, 72, 76), the
substantial market power of Lithuania's monopoly supplier of gas appears to have limited Lithuania's
effective options in privatizing LG.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
61.    Overall, the Government's initial strong ownership of the reform agenda supported by SAL-II led to
the implementation of a number of difficult reforms before Board presentation and helped get the operation
off to a good start. Subsequently, ownership was still sufficient for continued progress. However, as noted
earlier, there were some difficulties in some reform areas, reflecting both shifts in the priorities of
successive governments and political pressures. In agriculture, in response to substantial pressures from a
rural sector in serious recession, in August 2001 the Government temporarily reintroduced distortionary
price supports and price subsidies in two areas in which they had been previously abolished (foodgrains
and sugar). As a result, subsequent supervision missions rated performance of the agriculture component
as unsatisfactory. Nevertheless, as noted above, the budget impact of these interventions was limited, they
were eliminated in 2002, and subsequent legislation has removed the legal basis for their reintroduction, in
line with the approach proposed by the final supervision mission. In pensions, there was substantial
success in obtaining Seimas' authorization to implement adjustments in the PAYGO system that
dramatically improved SoDra's financial balances for the present. However, the Seimas did not approve a
deeper reform to improve the long-term viability of the pension system. This reflects the fundamental
difficulty in building national consensus behind this critical area of reform. The more recent (December
2002) passage of legislation establishing a voluntary second pillar will not in itself solve the pension
system's longer run fiscal problems. It is possible, however, that it could pave the way for subsequent,
deeper reforms. Finally, in the area of LG privatization, the interests and powerful position of the
monopoly gas supplier appear to have limited the effective options open to the government in the process of
transferring ownership to private investors. The arrangements that appear to be emerging contain potential
risks for the long run efficient operation of LG and for the interests of Lithuanian consumers (see
paragraphs 49-51 above and 72-73 below) that will need to be dealt with in the framework of strong
regulatory policies and institutions.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
   See 5.2 above.

5.4 Costs and financing:
   Not applicable.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
62.    It is highly likely that Lithuania will be able to sustain most of the achievements of its reform



                                                    - 20 -

program and to make further progress over time both in maintaining a stable growth path and in
implementing structural reforms. In large part this is due to the broad consensus within the country that
macro-economically sustainable economic growth and structural reform are essential for successful EU
integration and convergence towards EU living standards. The strength of this consensus is indicated by its
continuity across multiple changes in government, and reconfirmed by the overwhelming 90%
pro-accession vote in the May 2003 referendum.           EU monitoring of the accession process, and the
associated substantial financial and technical support provided by the EU, should help reinforce the reform
process in Lithuania and insure that the resources are available for the physical and institutional
developments needed to sustain and deepen what has been achieved. On the macroeconomic side, there
are naturally risks to Lithuania's sustained economic recovery: the very success of the past efforts could
lead to complacency and a greater willingness to respond to pressures to increase spending in response to
persistently high levels of poverty and unemployment (for example, on pension benefits or on agricultural
interventions); EU accession will bring expenditure responsibilities that are likely to cause a limited,
temporary increase in the fiscal deficit; and the current account could come under additional pressure from
higher oil prices, a rise in interest rates and/or slower export growth due to the continued weakness in the
world economy.      Lithuania's policymakers seem well aware of these risks and have not shown any
significant tendency to weaken fiscal discipline. The Government appears to be monitoring potential budget
or off-budget spending pressures closely. Moreover, Lithuania's currency board arrangement helps focus
attention on maintaining fiscal discipline. Finally, as Lithuania moves towards EU integration, the need to
comply with the Maastricht criteria should reinforce prudent macro management over time.

63.    Most of the gains under the structural reform agenda also appear likely to be sustained, and are
also likely to reinforce maintenance of a stable growth path. This does not mean that there will not be some
policy reversals from time to time, but these are likely to be relatively minor, and EU macroeconomic and
structural criteria will reinforce both macroeconomic discipline and reform efforts. In budget management,
the focus on the consolidated general government deficit and the need to carefully monitor and contain
extrabudgetary spending and borrowing, and contingent liabilities, has been internalized. This will be
reinforced by TA from EU-PHARE for improving consolidated fiscal accounts, and from the World Bank
(IDF grant) for debt management. In pension reform and social assistance, while one of the measures to
improve SoDra's short-term balances was reversed by a recent Constitutional Court decision, continued
careful monitoring and management should make it possible to avoid a return to large deficits, at least in
the near term. The legal and administrative underpinnings for the new voluntary funded pension pillar, if
well designed and implemented, could substantially ease the transition to a mandatory funded pillar should
this become politically feasible in the future. In private sector development, the bulk of the major
privatizations have been completed and the procedures used have generally demonstrated their
effectiveness. Other key areas such as accounting and auditing, the LSC, and enterprise restructuring are
being followed up through FSAP and/or EU PHARE TA. In the energy sector, the EPC appears to have
established its independence in carrying out its critical role, though it will be important for the Government
to continue to respect and reinforce its autonomy. LPC's restructuring and improved management and
operations have demonstrated their effectiveness and are unlikely to be reversed. EU regulatory and
competition policies are likely to continue to reinforce the progress made in these areas. In the agricultural
sector, the improvements in AFMRA's governance are unlikely to be reversed. Convergence toward forms
of agricultural support that conform to EU standards is likely to continue, leading to more consistent and
less-distorting policies, despite the possibility of occasional limited and temporary policy reversals in
response to intense political pressures from rural voters. However, to maintain fiscal discipline it will be
important to resist pressures to top up EU-funded agricultural payments from the national budget.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
64.    The macroeconomic policies and structural reforms that the SAL supported are in most cases



                                                      - 21 -

becoming part of the Government's and the economy's normal operations. For example, policy and
institutional improvements in budget management, pension funds and social assistance, accounting and
auditing, securities regulation, enterprise restructuring, tax administration and policy, the regulatory
framework for energy and agricultural and rural development, have all been embodied in new legislation
and associated regulations. Moreover, the EU accession process will reinforce progress in a number of
these areas (and many others).          The FSAP provides a benchmark for improving implementation of
appropriate standards and codes in critical areas of the financial sector and business environment. In
addition, the World Bank, through the CAS currently under development in partnership with the
Government, would be well-positioned to provide analytic and advisory support in areas closely linked to
sustaining the gains of SAL-II, including: (i) Public Sector Management (possibly supporting
improvements in public expenditure management and local government finance, both critical to containing
the consolidated fiscal deficit); (ii) the Business Environment and Knowledge Economy (broadly supporting
continued robust private sector development in a transparent, efficient policy environment); (iii) Social
Services and Social Protection (possibly supporting quality and efficiency in service delivery and further
sustainable reforms of social protection programs); and (iv) Poverty, Employment and Rural Development
(potentially supporting policies and program to make agriculture and the rural economy more efficient and
dynamic). Finally, the continued progress in reforms after the cancellation of SAL-II noted above and in
Column 3 of Annex 1, provides a strong indication of the likelihood of past achievements being sustained.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
65.   Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal, as discussed above under
"Quality at Entry" (paragraphs 17-22), was fully Satisfactory. Important features leading to this rating
include: (i) the operation's consistency with the CAS; (ii) its timeliness and responsiveness to the client's
needs; (iii) the high degree of Government ownership of the program (regarded by both Bank and
Government officials as a "true partnership"); (iv) the comprehensive analytical work that underpinned the
operation and helped the Government develop its reform agenda; (v) the comprehensive design of the
reform program, which Government officials saw as clarifying the linkages across sectors and to the macro
balances; (vi) the efforts by both the Bank and the Government to secure consensus across a wider political
spectrum (including Bank discussions with four parliamentary sub-committees, NGOs and private sector
representatives); (vii) coordination and complementarity with IMF and EU programs; and (viii) the
effectiveness of the two-tranche design in maintaining focus on the reform agenda across governments.

66.   A high quality team of Bank staff (including field office staff) and consultants was intensively
engaged in preparation and appraisal. It is worth nothing that consultants took the lead in three of the five
areas of structural reform (Budget Management, Private Sector Development and Agriculture). This had
the advantage of deploying professionals both highly skilled in their subject matter and with relevant prior
country experience, though with some risk to continuity subsequently (see below).

67.   As noted above (paragraph 21), in view of the subsequent implementation difficulties in the
privatization of LG, it is useful to consider whether the Bank could have or should have done something
different at the preparation stage that would have produced a better outcome. The underlying principles
and process of privatization that had been agreed worked well for other major privatizations included in the
Government's program.       However, in retrospect, and with the benefit of subsequent experience and
analysis, it now appears that the rather unique features of LG's market structure -- particularly the
monopoly position of Gazprom (together with its linked intermediaries) in supplying Lithuania's gas --
make it very likely, if not inevitable, that the outcome that eventually emerges will result in a considerable



                                                      - 22 -

sharing of ownership and management responsibilities between Gazprom and the strategic investor, rather
than the arm's length relationship between the distributor and input supplier one would expect in a more
competitive market.     For example, it is not likely that a different formulation of the conditionality
(requiring, say, a sale of at least 51 percent of LG to the strategic investor rather than 41 percent agreed)
would have led to a substantially different outcome. Given Gazprom's market power, any strategic investor
would need to reach an understanding with Gazprom, or face enormous input supply risks (similar to those
faced by the investor in the Mazeikiu oil refinery). This understanding could well have led the strategic
investor and Gazprom to form a consortium to purchase the 51 percent stake. As noted, the privatizations
of the Estonian and Latvian gas companies (where the Bank was not involved) resulted in large Gazprom
stakes in those companies.

68.    The records indicate that the Bank was aware that the general risks in energy privatization were
fairly high, especially since some of the key reformers behind the privatization were likely to change after
the upcoming elections [see minutes of upstream ICM review meeting, Annex 7, item 14]. But there is no
indication in the available documentation that the specific and rather unique risks that Gazprom's market
power posed for LG's privatization were recognized and discussed. Since then, these risks have become
much clearer as the implications of the Latvian and Estonian gas company privatizations and the
problematic oil refinery privatization have unfolded, and as the results of the very recent regional gas sector
review (cited above) have become available. These all provide a better perspective on Gazprom's market
power and the limits this places on gas market competition and LG's privatization process. Had this
information been available at the time, the Regional Operations Committee might have shifted the focus of
the conditionality towards further strengthening of the gas regulatory framework, instead of (as it did)
elevating the privatization of LG (which was already a part of the Government's program) to the list of core
second tranche conditions. Given that the Government in place at the time of SAL preparation clearly
wanted Bank support on this issue, it was reasonable to take the risks as they were then understood. For
the future, however, it should be possible to develop lessons from this and other privatization experiences to
guide task managers and Bank Management in designing appropriate privatization conditionality and
implementation strategies, especially for cases where severe market imperfections are likely to impair
normally sound procedures. (See Section 8 below).

7.2 Supervision:
69.    The Bank's role in supervision was satisfactory overall, and was considered so by the clients.
However, it could have been even more effective, particularly with regard to task team continuity. One key
client contrasted SAL-II supervision (which had three different task managers) with experience during
SAL-I, where the task team remained constant throughout the operation (and where supervision was rated
highly satisfactory). Some clients suggested that greater continuity would have reinforced the strong sense
of partnership that existed initially. In addition to the changes in task managers, continuity may have also
been reduced by the occasional supervision of some program components at times separate from the main
supervision mission, reflecting practical difficulties in coordinating mission schedules across sectors within
available travel budgets. Moreover, some of the consultants involved in the early stages were not used
subsequently. In at least one sector, agriculture, the relevant ECA sector unit did not provide systematic
guidance and oversight, despite repeated requests from the managing sector unit. While the agricultural
consultant, who had extensive knowledge of Lithuanian agriculture, dealt with the specific supervision
issues in a highly satisfactory way, more active involvement of the sector unit might have led to deeper
development of the dialog and identification of additional ways to support reforms in this sector. To some
extent an increased reliance on field office staff helped compensate for the loss of continuity, but some field
office staff indicated that in some instances they did not have as much guidance and backup from
headquarters specialists as they felt was needed.




                                                      - 23 -

70.   The Bank's efforts to provide high quality supervision appear to have been constrained by the Bank's
serious administrative budget problems in 2000-2001, resulting in tighter budget constraints and a hiring
freeze, at the same time that demands increased from newly-active clients. New hiring restrictions, in the
form of head counts and fixed cost ratios, appear to have been more important than dollar constraints as
supervision budgets and spending appear generally adequate (though not overly so for such a
comprehensive program; see Annex 4). In addition, the Region needed to respond to urgent needs in the
Balkans, with the sudden activation of the Yugoslavia program, but was not able to hire the additional staff
needed immediately. This made it necessary to redeploy the SAL-II task manager to respond to these
needs. As a stop-gap measure, an experienced Lead Economist took over task management (in June 2001)
until a new staff member could be recruited and deployed (in late 2001). However, there appears to have
been little overlap in the field between task managers at this last transition. The Bank's administrative and
budget constraints may have also made it more difficult to field comprehensive supervision missions and
reduced the ability of sector units to provide as much back-up support to consultants and field office staff
as would have been desirable. Section 8 below outlines lessons for supervision that could be drawn from
this experience.

71.   These difficulties should be seen more as areas for improvement rather than as fundamental flaws,
since supervision was on balance quite effective and supportive of reforms (and seen that way by clients).
Supervision was especially effective in the reforms of LPC, building on the long-standing experience and
understanding gained through the Power Rehabilitation Project (PRP). As the ICR for the PRP states:

      A notable feature of the [PRP] was the close coordination which was maintained between the Bank's team
      on the project and ... the first and second Structural Adjustment Loans (SAL I and SAL II), as well as the
      IMF. The conditionalities for both SAL operations included several clauses which reinforced the Bank's
      covenants and conditionalities in the Power Rehabilitation Project. Conversely, the Bank's work to assist in
      the full implementation of the PRP materially assisted in the achievement of SAL objectives--for example,
      the ending of producer subsidies in the energy sector, and the control of inter-enterprise arrears. [Annex 7,
      item 8, Section 7.3]

      High quality supervision was particularly important in this operation, given its two-tranche design
and the anticipated changes in government, factors that were likely to result in the need to rebuild
commitment among counterparts and to modify conditionality where justified.                  As issues arose in
implementation of SAL-II the Bank's responses were generally supportive and flexible, looking for ways to
resolve problems to achieve the objectives and move forward. For example, the Bank readily agreed to
extended the loan closing date from June 2001 to June 2002 when it became evident that the new
government, though making serious efforts, needed additional time to implement the reforms. In addition,
the Bank demonstrated flexibility in agreeing to request a waiver of the requirement that LPC's distribution
companies be privatized prior to second tranche release, noting that it appeared that the objectives for LPC
were being met (paragraph 45 above) and that the achievements were already "impressive." The Bank thus
agreed that it would be "wise" to delay the sale of the distribution companies until they had demonstrated a
track record in their new operating environment [Aide Memoire, 14 May 2002 (Annex 7, item 15)]. In
agriculture, the Bank worked with the Government successfully to identify an approach to resolve the
policy reversal of 2001. Although the loan was cancelled before a formal agreement was reached on this
approach, the Government maintained the (informally-agreed) approach even after the SAL-II was
cancelled, resulting in the substantive achievement of the objective.

72.   The main area where significant substantive differences emerged and remained unresolved between
the Government and the Bank was LG privatization. In discussions with the Government on this issue
during supervision, the Bank's position was logical and principled, while also demonstrating some



                                                       - 24 -

flexibility in seeking solutions. While reiterating the desirability of offering a majority stake for sale to a
strategic investor, the Bank accepted the Government's revised privatization model (which limited the share
initially offered to strategic investors to 34 percent (a "blocking" minority), and subsequently offering
another 34 percent to the gas supplier), provided the strategic investor would obtain effective operational
control through a shareholders' agreement as described in paragraph 47, above. However, the strategic
investor did not seek such an agreement, negotiating instead the arrangement described above in paragraph
48, which was adopted by the Government. In all probability, this agreement reflected the investor's
recognition that the agreement had to be acceptable to Gazprom. Nevertheless, upon learning of this
arrangement during the May 2002 supervision mission, the Bank took the position that it was not consistent
with the tranche release condition, as it appeared to compromise the independence of the strategic investor
and pose significant risks for LG operations in the future, particularly in the areas of gas purchase
agreements and investments. The Bank's position on this issue appears justified, as LG does not appear to
be able to act independently of its gas supplier. Unfortunately, this position also generated considerable
tension between the Bank and key Government counterparts, who felt the Bank could have been more
flexible.

73.    At the end of the May 2002 Supervision Mission, the Bank's assessment was: (i) that the
development objectives rating of the loan be maintained as Satisfactory since the loan had achieved its main
development objectives; but (ii) that the implementation rating be downgraded to Unsatisfactory primarily
due to the lack of agreement on LG privatization.             Agricultural pricing was also an issue, at least
technically, as the solution proposed by the mission (and subsequently implemented by the Government)
was not formally agreed. At about the same time, the Government announced that its implementation of the
SAL-supported reforms had improved its financial situation and access to world capital markets to the
point that it no longer had need for the second tranche. Accordingly, the Government requested that SAL-II
be cancelled without releasing the second tranche.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
74.    As indicated above, overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The implications of this experience,
including potential areas for improvement noted above, are discussed below in Section 8.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
75.    The Government's performance during preparation was highly satisfactory. Bank and Government
officials involved in this effort referred to it as a "true partnership", with the initiative for reform proposals
predominantly on the Government side. In identifying the reform areas and priorities in its program, the
Government drew on experience gained in the implementation of SAL-I, and on previous Bank analytical
work which had been carefully reviewed and internalized . The Government's ownership of the program
was thus very high. The Government's early efforts to confirm a reasonable degree of consensus on the
SAL-supported reforms to help ensure program ownership across party lines also appear to have been
reasonably successful.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
76.    The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory overall. While the three changes in
Government led to some delays, and probably some weakening of ownership, it is more remarkable that
significant progress continued to be made. This appears to indicate the strength of the program and the
consensus behind it (and the integration with EU that it supported). Some observers noted that progress in
implementing the reforms was not always "because of the SAL". But this is also a positive indicator of the
Government's commitment to reform. For example, although in 2001 the Government (in response to
intense political pressures) temporarily reversed agreed policies to reduce price distortions and spending



                                                        - 25 -

in agriculture, it restored the agreed policies, and reinforced them with appropriate legislation in 2002 --
after SAL II was cancelled. In the area of pension reform, the Government implemented difficult but
effective measures to restore balance to the PAYGO system, at least in the short run. Considerable effort
also was devoted to longer-term pension reform, modifying proposals substantially to respond to various
concerns, particularly the fiscal costs. It is unfortunate the Seimas did not adopt these proposals, and this
indicates a need for further efforts to build public consensus behind reforms in this area. As noted above,
the further development and operation of EPC and the restructuring of LPC are important and very
positive achievements. The delay in offering the distribution networks for sale was agreed to be a sensible
decision by the May 2002 supervision mission. While the outcome of the LG privatization is still uncertain
and appears to contain provisions that could make future LG operations difficult, it is not clear that there
was a better feasible alternative, given the gas supplier's strong market power. Moreover, the draft
shareholders agreement reportedly contains some safeguards that could reduce the risks somewhat. In this
context, the Government's decision to request cancellation of SAL II before drawing the second tranche had
a strong rationale. On the one hand, in large part due to the Government's successful implementation of the
SAL-II supported macroeconomic and structural reform program, the economy had already recovered to
the point that Lithuania's total financing need was much lower and access to world capital markets on very
fine terms had been restored, eliminating the need for second tranche funds. On the other hand, the
Government anticipated that the Bank would have continued difficulties in agreeing to the emerging LG
privatization arrangements.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
      See 7.5 above.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
77.   The Government's overall performance was satisfactory. As discussed above, the efforts during
preparation were highly satisfactory and during implementation were satisfactory. As described in detail in
Section 4, nearly all objectives and outcomes have been achieved.          Moreover, the Government has
continued to make progress after cancellation of the SAL.

8. Lessons Learned

78.   It has been a year since the Government requested the cancellation of SAL-II. During that time the
positive impact of the SAL II reforms has become clearer and the Government has continued to make
progress on the reform agenda. This was, and in a sense continues to be, a very successful operation. The
experience with this operation suggests a number of lessons to reinforce its strengths and to improve any
areas where it could have been better.

79.   The traditional two-tranche structure of SAL-II worked reasonably well, at least in this case, to
anchor reforms across governments. Equally important was very strong initial ownership, combined
with a broad consensus across political parties on the need for structural reforms to restore sustainable
growth and support EU accession.            While this ownership weakened somewhat with successive
governments, it remained sufficiently strong to implement the bulk of the program. However, this structure
has implications for supervision, as high quality supervision, with staffing continuity, is important for
implementing this design, to help new counterparts align behind program objectives and to modify
conditionality if necessary.

80.   The comprehensive and ambitious scope and content of SAL-II also worked reasonably well. The
comprehensive approach was substantively sound as parallel actions in a number of areas were needed to
achieve the desired deficit reduction and efficiency improvements. This approach was appreciated by a



                                                     - 26 -

number of counterparts as providing a framework that allowed them to see how reforms across a range of
sectors link to the macro balances and goals. The timing of a number of the policy actions represented
challenging targets, which were adjusted as needed so long as reasonable progress was made. As pointed
out in the ICR for SAL-I, "the lesson here is that the setting of less ambitious targets ... would have
probably achieved less in the end." But the comprehensive and ambitious approach also has implications
for supervision: it requires a considerable range of skills and experience (to deal with the different
components) as well as the ability to make sound judgments as to when modifications are needed to obtain
the objective.

81.   High quality supervision is important for any operation, but it was especially critical for this one,
given its structure and design as described above. This suggests that a supervision strategy (together
with staff plans and budgets) should be designed in parallel with preparation of the operation itself, to
reflect its design and country conditions. The strategy should assure adequate backup and guidance from
headquarters staff in the various units involved (e.g. ECSSD and LEG), with identified backups for
consultants and field office staff. When the operation is complex, or likely to span more than one
government, additional supervision resources and high caliber staff should be allocated. Supervision
should be seen as one of the strategies to contain the risk of such operations.

82.   Continuity should rank high as one of the components of quality supervision, and conscientious
efforts made to maintain continuity in the task team. Continuity helps maintain institutional memory as it
applies to the operation and also reduces the strains involved in reestablishing client relations. This is
particularly important when there is a need to rebuild understanding of and commitment to the reform
agenda following changes in governments and counterparts. It is not always easy for sector managers to
maintain continuity when they are faced with new and conflicting demands, unpredictable budget cuts and
hiring freezes, as well as normal staff rotation and development needs. Nevertheless, the cost of loss of
continuity should be carefully considered and alternatives explored. If it is not possible to maintain
continuity in leadership of the task team, then handover of responsibilities should be carefully managed
by sector managers, with appropriate overlaps and a handover mission, to ensure the transition to a new
task team leader is smooth and effective working relationships with clients are maintained and reinforced.

83.   There is a high payoff to analytic work. In this case, the substantial body of relevant analytical
work (see Box 1 above) had an impact not only on the design and content of the reform program but also
on the Government's ownership of the program and the depth of their understanding and commitment. In
the new CAS, which is currently emerging from joint Government and Bank deliberations, the Bank's focus
on analytical and advisory activities is expected to be enhanced, and is likely to be concentrated on
topics relevant to sustaining gains realized under the SAL. Experience during SAL II, particularly with
pension reform, illustrates the need to build broader public understanding of the need for reforms. To have
maximum impact, the analytical and advisory work should be designed and disseminated in ways that
help inform the policy debate and build consensus behind reforms among policy makers, politicians and
the broader civil society.

84.   In view of the difficulties encountered in implementing the privatization of LG, it may be
appropriate to undertake a systematic review of privatization of infrastructure and other enterprises
(such as LG) operating in highly imperfect markets, drawing on the Bank's substantial recent experience
with privatization efforts around the world, with the objective of developing guidelines to assist task
managers and Bank management in designing appropriate conditions and implementation strategies.
This proposed review could help Bank staff develop the sound understanding of the market situation and
regional context that is needed in such cases. It could draw on the significant efforts already underway
around the Bank to extract lessons from the recent experience with privatization (e.g., the ECA review of


                                                    - 27 -

private participation in power cited above, and the seminar on rethinking privatization organized by LAC
recently (February, 2003)). This analysis might enable future task teams and ROCs to assess the risks of
privatization in different types of market situations more systematically before designating them as
tranche release conditions, and possibly could help identify alternative approaches.

85.    SAL-II had an important impact on the institutional development agenda, by drawing on on-going
TA from a variety of donors, and supporting subsequent institutional reforms that led to further
capacity-building support from other donors (especially EU-PHARE). FSAP is likely to provide further
systematic reinforcement of the institutional framework, and follow-up support, particularly in the financial
sector and environment for private sector development. The experience with the development of the
regulatory framework for energy, and the role of the EPC, provides an important example of institutional
development in a technically and politically difficult area. It may be worth reviewing this experience to
determine if these developments can be reinforced and replicated.

86.    Where relevant projects are in place, there can be strong synergies between the project and a SAL.
The progress made in LPC is a particularly clear example of this, where both SAL-I and SAL-II
reinforced years of effort under the Power Rehabilitation Project, and the PRP in turn helped set the stage
for the restructuring of LPC during SAL-II.

87.    SAL-II can be considered a significant success, even though the Government decided to request its
cancellation prior to second tranche release. As documented above in Section 4, nearly all of the
operation's objectives have been achieved. Indeed, as the Government has noted, the success of the
program that SAL-II supported restored growth, reduced financing needs and improved access to world
capital markets to a point that the Government no longer needed the second tranche funds. At the same
time, most of the SAL-II supported reform objectives were achieved and are being sustained, even after the
Loan's cancellation. The Government and the Bank did reach an impasse on LG privatization. While the
Bank could not consider the approach adopted satisfactory (for reasons discussed in paragraphs 49 and 72,
above), it is not clear that the Government had a viable alternative to this approach (given the market
power of the monopoly supplier of gas to Lithuania). The cancellation enabled the Government to move
ahead with the privatization, without the Bank providing any implicit or explicit endorsement of an
arrangement that appeared to contain significant risks for LG's future operations. Given the limited
options, it is unclear that a better outcome was available in practice. For the future, however, a focused
assessment of relevant privatization experience (as suggested above in paragraph 84), could lead to a better
understanding of the risks involved, and help in the design of future operations.

88.    Finally, the financial terms and structure of this loan (a Euro-denominated, Fixed Spread Loan,
payable in 11 years with a bullet principal repayment) reflect the wider range of financing options that
the Bank began offering clients in the mid-1990s.             These terms are quite different from the more
traditional   IBRD loan structures.      Consequently, when the time comes for the Bank to review the
experience with the new loan structures and options to determine to what extent they benefited clients
(relative to the more traditional loan structures), this case should be considered for inclusion in that review.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
89.    The Government provided general comments on SAL-II, in a letter dated April 30, 2003. Relevant
extracts from the letter are provided below (See Annex 8, Section A for the full text):

    We have reviewed the draft Implementation Completion Reports for Second Structural Adjustment Loan and




                                                       - 28 -

    Power Rehabilitation Project. Both Reports are broadly in line with our expectations. Generally, we concur
    with the Reports' findings, assessment and recommendations.          With regard to the Second Structural
    Adjustment Loan, we appreciate that the majority of our comments expressed during the meeting ... on March
    4, 2003 has been taken into consideration and the draft revised accordingly.

90.   The letter also contained a several technical corrections which have been incorporated in the text
above. In addition, in a letter dated May 22, 2003, the Government provided a more detailed assessment of
the operation which has been reproduced in Annex 8, Section B. This report is highly consistent with the
ICR and reinforces a number of its findings, drawing particular attention to the formulation of policy
reforms in the area of privatization and to the importance of continuity in supervision.

(b) Cofinanciers:
91.   While there were no formal cofinancing arrangements in this operation, there were close relations to
the programs of both the IMF and EU. Interviews with relevant officials in both institutions indicated that
arrangements for coordination and cooperation with the Bank on the SAL-II program were considered fully
satisfactory.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
      Not applicable

10. Additional Information

See Annex 7




                                                      - 29 -

   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                SAL-II Policy Action Matrix and Outcomes

Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework (Responsible: Ministry of Finance)

Objective: Adopting and maintaining a sustainable macroeconomic framework to support stable growth and poverty
reduction
                        REFORM MEASURES1                                             OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS2
By June 2000                 By June 2001 (Later extended to
                             June 2002)
Maintenance of an            Maintenance of an appropriate           Recovery in economic growth, including visible poverty
appropriate medium-          medium-term macroeconomic               impact: GDP Growth recovered more rapidly than
term macroeconomic           framework.                               projected, averaging 5.9% p.a. for last two years;
framework.                                                            unemployment beginning to decline; poverty lower than
                                                                      without program, but not yet declining (see text Table 1
Agree with the World Bank    Positive review of indicators of         and paras. 25-28).
and begin to monitor         stabilization, economic restructuring,  Signs of accelerated economic restructuring: Exports
indicators of stabilization, and the poverty impact of the            rose as a share of GDP; composition shifted increasingly
economic restructuring and   Government's program. [Reviews were      to labor-intensive manufactured goods; Share of exports to
poverty reduction against    consistently positive. Simultaneous      OECD countries rose to 60% in 2002, while share to CIS
which to measure the         IMF Reviews of its parallel SBAs were    dropped to 19%.
impact of Government's       also consistently positive.]             Decline in external imbalances and vulnerability to
program of stabilization                                              shocks: CAD dropped from 11.2% of GDP in 1999 to
and structural reforms.                                               4.4% in 2002, while external debt to GDP fell from 42.5%
                                                                      to 38.8%; inflation below 1% p.a.; Fiscal Deficit dropped
                                                                      by 7.3% of GDP to 1.2%. Exports more diversified in
                                                                      markets and composition; FX reserves in 2002 about twice
                                                                      1999 levels. Government continues to pursue prudent
                                                                      fiscal policy.

A. Budget Management (Responsible: Ministry of Finance)

A.1. Objective: Enhancing transparency through increasing the comprehensiveness of government accounts and debt
management

Formation of working group    Satisfactory plan and concrete            Improved awareness of the government's exposure to
to prepare comprehensive      timeline for introduction of              different types of risks, and of the relationship between
government accounts giving    comprehensive financial statements in     off-budget activities and the budget constraint: MoF
aggregate information on      the documentation for budget              policy and monitoring is focused on the consolidated
the revenues and              planning and execution, followed by       deficit of the general government and its components. This
expenditures, and assets and  satisfactory progress in                  together with EU norms drives continued efforts to
liabilities (including        implementation. [Substantively            improve fiscal accounts, with EU-PHARE providing
contingent) of all public     completed; work continues to implement    technical support for reclassification of budget on ESA-95
entities.                     further improvements.]                    lines. Note that fiscal deficit declined sharply from 8.5%
                                                                        of GDP in 1999 to 1.2% in 2002.
Adopt action plan, including  Successful implementation of debt
detailed budget and           management strengthening action plan.     Public liabilities effectively monitored, including for
timetable, for full           [Completed; work continues on further     potential budget impact of contingent liabilities:
implementation of existing    improvements.]                            Improvements implemented in debt management, with
UNCTAD (DMFAS) debt                                                     additional improvements supported through World Bank
management system.                                                      IDF grant. Strict limits imposed on new guarantees, and
                                                                        provisions made for them (see below). External debt has
                                                                        declined as % of GDP.
1. Core Measures in Bold font; comments on status of core measures (and other selected measures) in [bracketed Italics].
2. Originally stated outcomes in Bold font; comments on realization of outcomes in Italics




                                                               - 30 -

A.2. Objective: Changing incentives for exposure to financial risks arising from commercial activities
                        REFORM MEASURES1                                             OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS2
By June 2000                           By June 2001(Later extended
                                       to June 2002)

Finalize and present to Seimas the     Beginning    with     the   2001   Enhanced compliance with the principles governing

draft Law on State Aid Monitoring.     budget, develop and implement      state aid in the European Union, and the potential

                                       guidelines   which    ensure    a  anti-competitive impact of guarantees countered:

                                       declining level of guarantees to   Ceilings on new guarantees progressively reduced
                                                                          from Ltl. 691 million in 2000 to zero in the 2003
Minister of Finance to ensure that all commercial activities except
                                                                          budget.
proposals    for     guarantees    to  public projects of national
commercial activities are notified to  priority      financed         by  Some costs of guarantees internalised by

the    Competition      Council    in  International           Financial  participants (the borrowing company, the bank,

accordance with Article 14 of the      Institutions, as well as an        and the sponsoring ministry): Government

draft law on state aid, and that       increasing   degree     of  risk-  Resolution No. 667 of 4 June 2001 establishes risk

guarantees are not given without a     sharing    by   other    parties.  sharing; guarantees cannot exceed 80% of loan

positive report from the Council in    [Completed;      implementation    amount. In addition, substantial provisions included in

accordance with Article 18.            continues.]                        budgets.


                                       Develop     classification    and
                                       provisioning of guaranteed loans,
                                       incorporate provisions and limits
                                       on new guarantees into the three-
                                       year     budget       projections.
                                       [Completed;      implementation
                                       continues].
1. Core Measures in Bold font; comments on status of core measures (and other selected measures) in [bracketed Italics].
2. Originally stated outcomes in Bold font; comments on realization of outcomes in Italics.




                                                                - 31 -

A.3. Objective: Clarifying the financial responsibilities and constraints of non-commercial extrabudgetary public entities, and taking
associated steps to ensure their good governance
                       REFORMMEASURES1                                                       OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS2
By June 2000                    By June 2001 (Later extended to June
                                2002)
Submit to Seimas Law on         Policies in place which effectively end      Quasi-fiscal imbalances better controlled: Guarantees strictly
Budget Structure which          borrowing by appropriation managers and      limited and phased out. Arrears and borrowing by municipalities,
ends     borrowing       by     ensure that all borrowing by budget units is and extra-budgetary entities (especially SoDra and AFMRA) put
appropriation     managers      undertaken by the Ministry of Finance, and   under tight limits and closely monitored).
and    ensures    that    all   financing is carried out through budget
borrowing by budget units       appropriations. [Completed. Law passed       Financially sustainable devolved structures for public entities

is  undertaken      by   the    by Seimas in July 2000 concentrating all     established: Financial management and oversight of extra-

Ministry of Finance, and        budget borrowing in the Finance Ministry     budgetary entities made more systematic and effective. Local

financing is carried out        and ending borrowing by budget units.]       Government arrears reduced and borrowing subject to tighter

through              budget                                                  limits; AFMRA governance and oversight structures improved;

appropriations.                 Improve capacity to monitor borrowing        SoDra runs Ltl. 117 million surplus in 2002, and borrowing costs

                                by, and other commitments of, all public     sharply reduced.

End borrowing by Roads          entities, including (1) local governments,
Fund.                           (2) AFMRA, (3) SoDra, and (4) other
                                public     entities.           [Completed;
                                implementation continues.]

                                SoDra's 2001 budget with more clear
                                classification and binding borrowing
                                limit to be reviewed and approved by
                                Minister of Finance before presentation
                                to Seimas. [Finance Ministry took over a
                                major part of SoDra's borrowing
                                operations and systematically reviews
                                SoDra's finances.]

                                Beginning with the 2001 PIP, develop
                                new financing guidelines which ensure
                                that projects which generate inadequate
                                own revenues to repay a loan are not
                                financed through guaranteed borrowing.
                                [Completed]
1. Core Measures in Bold font; comments on status of core measures (and other selected measures) in [bracketed Italics].
2. Originally stated outcomes in Bold font; comments on realization of outcomes in Italics.




                                                                      - 32 -

A.4. Objective: Improving the planning and management of the core budget
                      REFORM MEASURES1                                                     OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS2
By June 2000                    By June 2001 (Later extended to
                                June 2002)
Analysis of the revenue         Use the three-year budget planning       Reduced under-fulfilment of the budget, and thus less need to
outturn to date in 2000, to     process to monitor and control           resort to cash rationing. Greater fulfilment of budget expenditure
determine whether budget        commitments.       [Three-year budget    appropriations within forecast revenues and planned borrowing
appropriations can be fulfilled planning framework introduced and        resources. Extent of cash rationing and under-fulfilment of budget
or whether a supplementary      continuing.]                             reduced as budget crisis was resolved. Budget forecasts utilized more
budget is needed.                                                        routinely. The 2003 budget included a medium-term macroeconomic
                                                                         projection with underlying assumptions, published on the internet,
Development of procedures                                                and a detailed estimate of the impact of changes in the tax code.
for undertaking an orderly      In the budget presented to Seimas in
response to shortfalls of       late-2000:
revenue       relative       to  Initiate a process of reducing the     Appropriations increasingly reflective of government's policy

forecasts.                      number of separate budget line items     priorities and appropriation managers able to use resources more

Preparation      by        the  and      consolidating      expenditure  flexibly to achieve program objectives: Introduction of program and

Ministry of Finance of a        allocations under program headings.      performance budgeting techniques, but application still in early stages.

revenue forecast for 2001,       Initiate a reduction in the number of  Strengthened mechanisms for detecting the wasteful and inefficient

showing the sensitivity of      appropriation managers.                  use of budget resources: All legislation with spending implications

revenue to different GDP         Ministries to propose and introduce    now required to be accompanied by a note outlining its fiscal

growth assumptions, and         performance     measures     for those   implications. Internal audit functions strengthened.

the potential impact of any     programs where such measures can
tax    changes      currently   most readily be developed.
under consideration.            [Some consolidation initiated, but
                                halted due to Constitutional Court
Establish   a   Government      decisions. Moreover, EU accession-
monitoring procedure for        related expenditures have created a
Cabinet decisions that have     need     for   some     new    program
clear budget implications.      headings.]


1. Core Measures in Bold font; comments on status of core measures (and other selected measures) in [bracketed Italics].
2. Originally stated outcomes in Bold font; comments on realization of outcomes in Italics.




                                                                      - 33 -

B. Reform of Pensions and Social Assistance

B.1. Objective: Achieve balance and better incentives within the current pension and SoDra legal framework

                        REFORM MEASURES1                                                   OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS2
By June 2000                       By June 2001 (Later extended to
                                   June 2002)
Government submits to Seimas       Government provides evidence            Both near and long term viability of the current social
draft amendments to current        that pension policies satisfactory      insurance pension system, including a reduction and eventual
social       insurance        law, to the Bank are in place that (a)       elimination of system deficits.        Measures adopted reverse
satisfactory     to  the   World   help achieve fiscal balance in the      SoDra's cash flow from a deficit of Ltl. 284.1 million in 1999 to a
Bank, that adjust the rate of      short-term, and increase certainty      surplus of Ltl. 117 million in 2002. SoDra's debt levels
increase in retirement ages,       in benefit adjustments and (b) in       significantly reduced.
treatment         of     working   conjunction with the work in B.2
pensioners, sickness benefit       (below), that the Seimas has been       More efficient and less ad hoc methods used to achieve fiscal
rules and other appropriate        provided with analyses of the           balance. Measures adopted include those that increase incentives
measures directed to achieving     current law pension program's           to continue work; and more predictable benefit indexing.
fiscal balance in the short-term   long term fiscal balance, including
                                   options for possible increases in
MSSL provides evidence that; a)    retirement    ages     and    possible
a clear commitment has been        reductions in contribution rates
made to adjust the delayed         and changes to and under existing
retirement      credit   to     an law to encourage longer work and
actuarially neutral level , and b) increased compliance; and (c)
a study to determine this neutral  introduce     improved       disability
level has been commissioned        criteria      and        certification
                                   procedures. [The legislation was
To ensure greater certainty in     passed     by    the   Seimas     and
benefit       adjustments,      a) implemented.        It included an
Government         to     approve  acceleration in the pension age
amendments to the Law on State     increase (to 6 months per year for      More rigorous eligibility conditions and enforcement for sickness
Social Insurance Pension which     both men and women) that has had a      and maternity benefits resulted in a Ltl. 115 million (more than 25
introduce indexation of the basic  major impact on restoring SoDra's       percent) decline in spending on these benefits in 2001, and a
pension by the consumer price      fiscal balance in the short and         further decline of nearly 2 percent in 2002.
index, and b) MSSL to make         medium term.]
legal changes needed to move
indexation of the supplementary    Government provides evidence that
pension to the lesser of the       policies are in place which require
growth in average wages or the     employers to cover the cost of at
growth in the aggregate wage       least the first 5 days of sickness
base (sum) actually assessed by    benefits.      [Not    adopted,    but
                                   tightening    of    eligibility  rules
Ministry of Social Security and    resulted in substantial savings.]
Labor (MSSL) provides evidence     Government provides evidence that a
that work has started to analyze   plan satisfactory to the Bank is in
the    disability  caseload    and place that gives the government more
changes in disability criteria and effective information and control
certification procedures.          over SoDra revenues and spending,
                                   and    that   distinguishes    pension
                                   contributions and spending from
                                   other   SoDra     contributions   and
                                   spending, which procedures have
                                   been in place for at least one quarter.
                                   [These measures not yet in place].




1. Core Measures in Bold font; comments on status of core measures (and other selected measures) in [bracketed Italics].
2. Originally stated outcomes in Bold font; comments on realization of outcomes in Italics.




                                                                     - 34 -

                      REFORM MEASURES1                                                 OUTCOMES AND OUTPUTS2
By June 2000                     By June 2001 (Later extended to
                                 June 2002)
MSSL and Working Group           Government provides evidence to
(see   B.2   below)    provides  the Bank that STI and SoDra have      Assure highest level of revenue collection and compliance and
evidence that, in conjunction    developed a time bound plan,          minimize burdens on employers and other taxpayers: SoDra's
with the work in B.2, it has     satisfactory to the Bank, that moves  revenue-expenditure balance significantly improved as noted above,
undertaken             analyses  contribution auditing, compliance     but no major changes in collection administration yet implemented.
concerning the current law       and collection responsibilities from  SoDra already had system based on individual contribution records
pension program's long term      SoDra to STI without putting          in place that provides some incentive to ensure payments
fiscal balance, including the    existing performance levels at risk   adequately recorded.
possible   need    to  increase  and    that  the   initial steps   in
retirement ages in the out-      cooperation have been in place for at
years, options for reducing      least one quarter. [State Social
contribution rates, and through  Insurance Law and related laws
changes in the basic pension to  amended to transfer function of
encourage longer work and        collecting state social insurance to
increased compliance.            STI; however, implementation has
                                 been delayed in part due to need for
MSSL provides evidence that      STI   to   adapt    to   recent  Tax
an     analysis    has     been  Administration    and    Tax   Policy
commissioned of the fiscal and   Laws, and also the need for both
incentive    effects   of;    a) SoDra and STI to adapt to new
increases in contribution rates  voluntary funded pillar.]
and assessable wages, and b)
withdrawing                  the
supplementary pension from
working pensioners.

MSSL provides evidence that
in conjunction with the work
in B.2. (below) and budget
management reforms under
Section    A.,   analyses    are
undertaken to more clearly
distinguish             pension
contributions   and   spending
from        other        SoDra
contributions and benefits.

In conjunction with the work
to improve tax administration
discussed in section C.2., the
MSSL provides evidence that
the State Tax Inspectorate and
SoDra have initiated a review
of    contribution   collection,
auditing and compliance to
support increased cooperation
in the short-term and of the
steps necessary for eventual
merger of all revenue and data
collection,    auditing     and
compliance.
1. Core Measures in Bold font; comments on status of core measures (and other selected measures) in [bracketed Italics].
2. Originally stated outcomes in Bold font; comments on realization of outcomes in Italics.




                                                                    - 35 -

B.2.Objective:Prepareandachievedeeperpensionreform

                              REFORMMEASURES1                                                              OUTCOMESANDOUTPUTS2
           ByJune2000               ByJune2001(LaterextendedtoJune2002)
ProvidetotheBank:(a)evidence        Submission to Seimas of a satisfactory policy Betterprovisionofabasiclevelofprotectioninoldage:Whilenewpensionlawand
that a working group has been       package that will achieve the goal of a basic reformsofPAYGOsystemwillprovidesomebenefit,uptakeofvoluntarypillarlikelyto

chartered reporting to the PMto     level of support for all citizens and that betoosmalltopreventunsustainablesystemdeficitsinthelongrun. However,thelegal
                                    determines the role of privately-managed and administrative arrangements put in place for the voluntary pillar could support
develop proposals as to how         funded pensions in the mandatory social morefundamentalreformsinthefuture.
Lithuania might best provide a      insurance pension system in Lithuania.
basic level of support in old age [Satisfactory proposals (including mandatory Greater economic growth through higher savings and more efficient capital
for all citizens and that           funded pillar) approved by Government and marketsthroughgreateruseofprivately-managedfundedpensions: Somebenefit
comprehensively addresses the       submitted to Seimas, but not enacted. New possible, but uptake of voluntary pillar likely to be too small and slow to have major

role of voluntary and mandatory     pension reform law enacted December 2002 effectongrowth.
                                    givingemployeesoptiontoallocatepartoftheir
funded pensions in Lithuania in     mandated pension contribution to voluntary
both the state and private sector;  fundedsecondpillar.]
and (b) an action plan and Submission of satisfactory evidence that Assurethatcostsofadditionalcompensationinstatesectorareallocatedovertime
realistic timetable, satisfactory to policies are in place to put early retirement   inanon-distortionary and equitable manner: Additional compensation costs were
theBank,forthecompletionofan         andothersupplementarybenefitsinthestate avoided through amendments of Civil Service Law, removing basis for additional

options paper that includes          sector on a funded basis in the long-term compensation. Scope remains for putting previously established special benefits for
                                     [Stepstakentoavoidintroductionofadditional somegroupsofpublicemployeesonafundedbasis.
concrete proposals and enabling      benefits, thus avoiding need to fund them.]and
legislation   addressing      these  thatfacilitatethe creationoffundedpensions
matters.                             intheprivatesectorforthesameends [Legal Nopensionfundsyetestablished;newlegislation,expectedtobepresentedtoSeimasin
                                     and regulatory framework for pension funds May2003,beingdevelopedtoenablefundstobeestablishedtosupportimplementation
                                     adopted,butnofundssetup(seetext)]               ofnewpensionlaw.

B.3.Objective:ReformsofsocialassistancetomitigatetheeffectsofotherSALmeasures

Reform reporting requirements of Complete an assessment satisfactory to the Thesemeasureswill provideabasisforpolicyadjustmentstoimprovetargetingto
local governments to ensure that Bank of the ability of the social protection thosemostinneed:Mechanismsforcompensatingthemostvulnerablehouseholdsfor
information for proper monitoring system to protect residents of areas with increaseddistrictheatingcostsappearedtoworkreasonablywell. Informationflowsto
andreviewofthecompensationand significantly above average unemployment supportthoseadjustmentswereimproved.
socialbenefitschemesisavailable.      rates, possibly including rural areas hit by
                                      theacceleratedtransitionfromfarmingtonon- Strengthened social assistance systemallowing better response to similar future
Establishannual review of systems farm activity. [Satisfactory study and report shocks: A study supported by EU-PHARE provided input for a new Cash Social
of compensating heating, hot water completed.]                                       AssistanceLaw,whichwassubmittedtoSeimasinNovember2002. Inadditionanew
and other utility payments for Complete an assessment satisfactory to the Unemployment Insurance Law is under preparation and expected to be submitted to
poor members of society to Bank of the adequacy of the new social Seimasinthesecondquarterof2003.
ensure they remain effective as the assistancesystemsetforthintheLawonCash
structure of the utilities and of Social Assistance with respect to family
energypriceschanges.                  income and consumption, as well as the
                                      targeting mechanism.       [Study completed;
                                      formed basis for new Cash Social Assistance
                                      Law.]
1.CoreMeasuresinBoldfont;commentsonstatusofcoremeasures(andotherselectedmeasures)in
[bracketedItalics].
2.OriginallystatedoutcomesinBoldfont;commentsonrealizationofoutcomesinItalics




                                                                                   - 36 -

C. PrivateSectorDevelopment(Responsible:MinistryofFinance,MinistryofEconomy)

C.1.Establishingeffectiveprivatizationprocedures;PrivatizingtheLithuanianSavingsBank

                            REFORMMEASURES1                                                                   OUTCOMESANDOUTPUTS2
          ByJune2000               ByJune2001(LaterextendedtoJune2002)
For new privatizations, firm and For new privatizations starting June 2000, TheGovernment'scommitmenttousebestpracticeswillincreaseinvestor
binding commitment by the the Government will engage financial confidence;attractbetterbuyersatbetterprices;andensureahigherlevelof
Governmentto:engagefinancial advisors and sales agents, as required, using successinsellingstate-ownedcompanies:Theagreedprocedureswereeffectively
advisors and sales agents, as open tenders; finance needed retainer fees; usedinanumberofcases(includingGeonafta,LISCO,theAgriculturalBankandthe
required, using open tenders; and use transparent and open sales LithuaniaSavingsBank). Theprocedurescontinuetobeusedfortherelativelyfew
financeneededretainerfees;and procedures. [implementedandcontinuing.]                remainingprivatizationsoflargecompanies.
use transparent and open sales
procedures.
                                   As the privatization process moves forward,
                                   submissiontotheBankoftheinvestmentbank's
                                   privatization plan (that will include the time-
                                   boundrestructuringplanorplans),asynopsisof
                                   the offering information memorandum with all
FortheprivatizationofLSB,the the conditions of sale, the pre-qualification
Government will select and hire criteria for bidders, the criteria for the selection
an     internationally   reputed ofawinningbidandareportontheselectionof
investment bank, following best the winning bid. These will be satisfactory to
practices, to sell control of the the Bank. [The information was generally
LSB to a reputable private providedwhenrequired.]
shareholder banking institution,
using transparent and open
bidding sales procedures. The
Government will contract with The government to offer LSB for sale to a
the investment bank, inter alia, strategic buyer using an open, international        TheSavingsBankrestructuredandmovedtotheprivatesector,andmoreefficient.
that its privatization plan to be bidding process. [Privatization completed in       Governmentremovedfromfinancialrestructuringcommitments:Bankingsystem
submitted to the Government 2001.]                                                   nowentirelyprivatized,withindicatorsoffinancialsoundnessandprofitability
will include a time-bound                                                            improving.
restructuring plan or plans for
LSB.

Results of financial restructuring
planforLSBprovidedtotheBank.
1.CoreMeasuresinBoldfont;commentsonstatusofcoremeasures(andotherselectedmeasures)in
[bracketedItalics].
2.OriginallystatedoutcomesinBoldfont;commentsonrealizationofoutcomesinItalics.




                                                                                   - 37 -

C.2.Objective:Improvingtaxadministration

                            REFORMMEASURES1                                                              OUTCOMESANDOUTPUTS2
          ByJune2000                ByJune2001(LaterextendedtoJune2002)
Policy decision by the Minister of The Government to include in the budget for -      Bettercompliance.
Finance to adopt a voluntary 2001 resources to start implementation of the -          Morefairtaxation.
compliance approach to taxation by Strategic Plan and the tax administration -        Bettertransparency.
approving the Strategic Plan of the improvement     program     of  the     STI. -    Lowercostoftaxadministration.
State Tax Inspectorate (STI) for [Implemented]                                     -  Increaseintaxcollection.
2000-2001.                          Prepare and approve amendments to decrees Too early to measure impact of new legislation on compliance and collection, but the
                                    relevanttotheimplementationoftheStrategic packageofnewtaxpolicyandadministrationlegislationisexpectedtoyieldasmuchas
Decision by Minister of Finance to Plan and the tax administration improvement Ltl.40millioninadditionalrevenuein2003.Anumberofspecialconcessionshavebeen
implement the tax administration program. Prepare and submit to the Seimas removedandcorporatetaxratesconsolidated,simplifiedandreduced,fromanaverage
improvement program initiated by amendments          to    relevant   legislation. of29%to24%in2001,andreducedfurtherto15%(13%forSMEs)startingin2003.
theSTI.                             [Legislation   prepared,    submitted    and
                                    approved.]
                                    Clear progress on implementation of the tax
                                    administration    improvement      program.
                                    [Legislationpassedandbeingimplemented]

C.3.Objective:Improvingcorporategovernanceandshareholderrights

SubmittotheSeimasamendments SubmittotheSeimasanewaccountinglaw -                      Improvedcorporategovernance
to the Law on Companies to based on IAS and EU directives, which -                    Accurate,timelyinformationoncompaniestostakeholders
require audit of all joint stock establishes a general requirement of -               Betteraccessforcompaniestodebtandequitycapital
companieswiththeexceptionof accountingandfinancialreportingbasedon -                 Morefairtaxationofcompanies;improvedtaxcollection.
small, private companies  by these standards and directives, but which -             Betterprotectionforminorityshareholders
auditors qualified in accordance leaves the preparation and approval of FSAPreviewfoundthatLithuania'saccountingrequirementsnowsignificantlycloserto
withtheLawonAudit.                  accounting standards to a private sector IAS and EU directives and identified a number of areas for follow-up and capacity
                                    driven body. The draft law should be building to implement the new legislation. World Bank requested by Government to
                                    finalized in close consultation with private helporganizeTAsupportinthisarea,forwhichfundingundertheFIRSTinitiativehas
                                   sector stakeholders and the World Bank. beenapproved.
The Government will support the [Satisfactory new accounting laws approved
Lithuanian Securities Commission November2001.]
(LSC) to prepare proposals to
strengthen    securities   markets The LSC should complete the proposals to FSAP review found regulatory structure for securities market adequate and identified
through ensuring the independence strengthen securities markets, and the severalareasforfollow-upandcapacitybuilding.
of the LSC, and through improving Government should approve and submit to
the preconditions for effective Seimas proposals for amendments to
supervision of the Lithuanian Stock legislation , and approve amendments to
Exchange (LSE) by the LSC, the decrees and decisions in relation to such
transparency and discipline of the proposals.        [several      improvements
LSE,andshareholdersrights.          implemented.]

1.CoreMeasuresinBoldfont;commentsonstatusofcoremeasures(andotherselectedmeasures)in
[bracketedItalics].
2.OriginallystatedoutcomesinBoldfont;commentsonrealizationofoutcomesinItalics




                                                                                 - 38 -

C.4.ObjectiveIncreasingtheeffectivenessofenterprisebankruptcyandrestructuringmechanisms

                              REFORMMEASURES1                                                                OUTCOMESANDOUTPUTS2

           ByJune2000                 ByJune2001(LaterextendedtoJune2002)
Submitnewdraftbankruptcylawto Submit the new legislation on enterprise -                  Acceleratedbankruptcyandliquidationprocess.
Seimas.                              restructuring, satisfactory to the Bank, to -        Restructuring/workingoutinsteadofliquidationofviableenterprises.
                                     Seimas. [Satisfactory legislation presented and -    Expedient liquidation of companies with no or little chance of survival,
In close consultation with the approvedinMarch2001.]                                      includingreductionoffiscalpressures.
Bank and IMF, revise new draft                                                       -    Lessriskforfraudandsquanderingofassetsininsolvententerprises.
legislation    on        enterprise Paralleltotheprocessingofthenewlegislation,
restructuring to be in line with prepareanactionplantoremovekeybottlenecks Substantial acceleration in case resolution, with the ratio of resolved cases to new
international best practice and to implementing the legislation. [EU-PHARE casesrisingfrom0.19in1999to0.62in2002;despitelargeincreaseinnumbersof
consistentwithoverallcommercial providingTAtoassistimplementation.]                  newcasesduetoeconomicrecessionatbeginningofperiod. Quickerresolutionalso
legal framework and therefore                                                        reducesscopeforfraudandassetstripping. FSAPreviewedproceduresandidentified
satsifactory to the Bank, and Start implementation of the action plan. [EU- areastoimproveimplementation. EU-PHAREsupportexpectedtomeetthisneedat
submittoCabinet.                    PHAREassistanceunderway]                         leastinpart.

C.5.Objective:Removingbarrierstonewbusinessdevelopment

Facilitate land acquisition and PrepareandproposetotheSeimasamendments -                  Easierentryforenterprises,bothdomesticandforeign.
administration by setting a deadline to legislation, and approve amendments to -          Betterconditionsfordoingbusiness.
for submitting land restitution decrees to further facilitate land acquisition and -      IncreasedFDI
claims, by speeding up procedures administration (including facilitating the -            Increasedeconomicactivityandincreasedtaxrevenue.
forthesaleandleaseofstate-owned processing of remaining restoration claims, and
land and lowering fees for such streamlining the registration of land, buildings Restrictions on foreign company entry to certain sectors (chemicals and
transactions,andbyallowingsaleof and mortgages). [land sale and registration pharmaceuticals, alcoholic beverages) removed, leaving only a very narrow list of
state-ownedlandwithoutauction.      procedures simplified; final date for submitting exclusions (mainly weapons and narcotics). Land sale and registration process
                                    restitutionclaimsestablishedandpassed;recent simplified. Licensing fees reduced and made uniform for foreign and domestic
                                    constitutional amendment makes possible entities. Requirement that all invoices and receipts be prepared on costly and
Prepare and propose to the Seimas purchaseofagriculturallandbydomesticlegal impracticalstate-printedformsbeingphasedout. Taxratessimplifiedandreducedas
amendments to relevant legislation entities and, after a 7-year phase in period, by notedabove(sectionC.2).
or prepare new legislation to foreignlegalentitiesandindividuals.]
improve conditions for the sale and
movementofgoodsbyreducingthe PrepareandproposetotheSeimasamendments
number of sectors restricted to to relevant legislation and approve amendments
domestic investment, and by torelevanttoimprovetheconditionsforthesale
eliminating inequalities in setting andmovementofgoodsbyeliminatingexcessive
licensingfees.                      andunnecessarybureaucracy,andbyeliminating
                                    excessively high licensing fees. [Several
                                    measuresimplemented,seetext.]

1.CoreMeasuresinBoldfont;commentsonstatusofcoremeasures(andotherselectedmeasures)in
[bracketedItalics].
2.OriginallystatedoutcomesinBoldfont;commentsonrealizationofoutcomesinItalics.




                                                                                  - 39 -

D.TheEnergySector(Responsible:MinistryofEconomy)

D.1.Objective:Selectingmarketmodelsforelectricityandgas

                             REFORMMEASURES1                                                           OUTCOMESANDOUTPUTS2
           ByJune2000               ByJune2001(LaterextendedtoJune2002)
Selectthemarketmodelforpower
and gas, consistent with EU
Directives and submit to the
Seimas.                                                                         Visionofthe reformprocessinthesectorestablished.
                                                                                Market models established which promote competition to cut costs of power and
Establish,  together    with    the                                             gasandwhichsatisfyEUdirectives.
Governments of Latvia and Estonia,  WorkingGroupstocompletetheirtaskswhich One major precondition in place for privatization to increase sector efficiency

working     groups     to     make  would establish a time-bound action plan to aheadofopeningofmarketstocompetitionwithintheEU.
                                    fully meet EU Directives on market
recommendations the necessary       liberalization. [Working groups established MarketmodelsselectedthatmetEUdirectivesandprovidedvisionforthesector.
technical,economic,institutionaland andcontinuetooperate.]
financial issues relating to the
development of a Common Baltic
ElectricityMarket.

D.2.Objective:Restructuringthepowerandgassub-sectors

Lithuanian Power Company to Establish, by February 1, 2001, generation,
establish generation, transmission, transmission/national grid operation and StructureofthepowersectorfullymeetingEUDirectivesformarketliberalization:
distribution as separate profit distribution businesses of LPC as separate PowersectorstructurefullyconsistentwithEUdirectives.
centers with their own set of companies. [Implemented, w.e.f. 1 January LPC, the distribution company[ies], and each generating station operate
accounts and clearly identified 2002.]                                          independently,withseparateaccountsandcareerstructures:Unbundledcompanies
transmission and distribution PreparetheTradingRulesandGridCodeand alloperatingindependentlyandprofitablybyMay2002.
service prices. A plan will be submit them to the Bank. [Finalized and LG has become a profit-maximizer operating on the basis of incentive-based
established for a competitive ImplementedfromJanuary2002.]                      regulation: Improvements reported in LG's profitability and operational systems in
marketforgeneration.                                                            2002,followingtakeoverofmanagementbyRuhrgas-E.ONconsortiumthat purchased
                                    LGto separate its LPG business in a manner 34%stakeinLGinJune2002.
Lithuanian Gas (LG) to establish consistentwithEUprinciples.[Implemented.]
LPGasaseparateprofitcenterwith
itsownsetofaccounts.

1.CoreMeasuresinBoldfont;commentsonstatusofcoremeasures(andotherselectedmeasures)in
[bracketedItalics].
2.OriginallystatedoutcomesinBoldfont;commentsonrealizationofoutcomesinItalics.




                                                                              - 40 -

D.3.Objective:Privatizationoftheelectricityandgassectors

                           REFORMMEASURES1                                                                 OUTCOMESANDOUTPUTS2
           ByJune2000             ByJune2001(LaterextendedtoJune2002)
The government will hire a TheGovernmentwillhireareputable                       Privatization has increased operational efficiency in energy in preparation for EU
reputableinternationalinvestment internationalinvestmentbanktoundertakethe       integration,increasingpotentialbenefitsofmarketliberalization: ProfitabilityofLG
banks      to   undertake    the privatizationof LGusinganopen,                  andLPCunitssuggestefficiencygains,thoughitisstillearlytoassessimpact.
privatization of LPC using an internationaltender. Thecriteriaforselection
open, international tender. The andshortlistwillbesenttotheBankfor               Downward pressure on energy prices, giving downstream industries increased
RequestforProposals,criteriafor reviewandwillbesatisfactorytothe                 opportunitytobecompetitive: Thirdpartyaccessinelectricityandgas,combinedwith
selectionandshortlistwillbesent Bank.[Done:BanqueParibasselected.]               abilityoflargerconsumerstochoosetheirsupplier,shouldhelpprovidesomedownward
totheBankforreviewandwillbe                                                      pressure on energy prices competitive; in gas, however, effective competition will be
satisfactorytotheBank.            AstheprivatizationprocessforLPCandLG           limitedgivenmonopolypositionofLithuania'sgassupplier.
                                  movesforward,submissiontotheBankofthe
The government will issue a investmentbanks'privatizationplans,thepre-           Mostofpowerdistributionandpossiblysignificantgenerationmovedtotheprivate
Request for Proposals to hire a qualificationcriteriaforbidders,thecriteriafor   sector: Whilethishasnotyethappened,supervisionmissionassessmentwasthatmostof
reputableinternationalinvestment selectionofawinningbidandareportonthe           thebenefitsofthecommercialization/unbundling/privatizationofLPChavealreadybeen
bank      to    undertake    the selectionofthewinningbid. Thesewillbe           realized. Inanyevent,distributioncompaniesnowpoisedforprivatizationinthecoming
privatization of LG using an satisfactorytotheBank.[Done.]                       year.
open, international tender. The
RequestforProposals,willbesent Governmenttoofferforsaleatleast51%of              LGmovedtotheprivatesectorresultingin increasingefficiencywithgasprices
totheBankforreviewandwillbe LPC's distribution assets through an open            becomingmorecompetitiveandmarketdriven: ScopeforLGtooperateinfully
satisfactorytotheBank.            international tender to international          competitiveenvironmentlimitedbymonopolypositionofLG'sgassupplier(seetext).
                                  strategic investors: [Though not yet done,     Nevertheless,LGhashadsubstantialimprovementsinitsprofitabilityin2002,following
                                  cumulative impact of sector reforms means      takeoverofmanagementbyRuhrgas-E.ONconsortium.
                                  thesecompaniesnowpoisedforprivatization,
                                  expectedbeforeend-2003.Supervisionmission
                                  agreed to request waiver of this condition in
                                  May2002.]
                                  Governmenttoofferatleast41%ofLGfor
                                  sale through an open international bidding
                                  process to an international strategic buyer:
                                  [Not done (see text). Instead Government
                                  offered 34%tostrategicinvestor(whobought
                                  thisshareinJune2002),andanother34%to
                                  Gazprom (the monopoly supplier of gas to
                                  Lithuania), but negotiations for this sale not
                                  completed.]
1.CoreMeasuresinBoldfont;commentsonstatusofcoremeasures(andotherselectedmeasures)in
[bracketedItalics].
2.OriginallystatedoutcomesinBoldfont;commentsonrealizationofoutcomesinItalics.




                                                                                - 41 -

D.4.Objective:Reformingcorporategovernanceinthelargeenergyutilities

                              REFORMMEASURES1                                                                OUTCOMESANDOUTPUTS2
            ByJune2000               ByJune2001(LaterextendedtoJune2002)
Amend legislation, other regulations Government agrees financial targets and While the Government retains a majority stake, the entity is run oncommercial
and the statutes of LPC and LG, to investmentcriteriawiththeBoardsofLPCand terms as a State-owned enterprise. The operation of the sector has become
require the Minister of Economy to LG[Review of LPC and LG investment plans significantlylesspolitical:
set out appropriate remits and conducted.]                                          GovernanceandmanagementstructuresofLPCimprovedandroleofstatedefinedand
working      procedures    for   the                                                limitedbyestablishingrolesandautonomyofthecompany'ssupervisoryandexecutive
Supervisory Board of LG and the Directors General and Management Boards of boards, and by improving financial management and accounts of the unbundled
SupervisoryandGoverningBoardsof LPCandLGhavepreparedcorporatestrategy companies. NewLGmanagementstructurelimitsgovernmentrole,andLG'sfinancial
LPC. TheSupervisoryBoardofLG to be reviewed and approved by the outcomesappeartobeimproving..
andtheGoverningBoardofLPCwill Supervisory Board.             The strategy would
consist of personnel with named address the long-term role, cost cutting,
qualifications in areas such as investmentplansandqualityofsupplycriteria,
finance,law,economics,industry.      including accountability. [Strategiesdeveloped
                                     foreachLPCunit;LGmanagementtooksteps
Complement the new structures by toreducecosts.]
appointing internal Management
Board which will assist the
DirectorsGeneralofbothLPCand
LG.
D.5.Objective:Recastingthelegalandregulatoryenvironment

Provide acceptable timetable for EstablishasystemforthefinancingoftheEPC LawsupdatedtocreatelegalframeworkrequiredtomeetEUDirectivesonenergy,
introducing legal and other changes whichisindependentoftheStatebudgetorof and to provide the framework to maximize the potential revenues from
needed to establish a system for the Government     decision.     [Licensing   fees privatization: Appropriatelegalframeworkinplace. Initialreportsonprofitabilityof
financing of the EPC which is allocated to budget and to cover regulatory unbundledLPCcompaniesandLGarepromising.
independentoftheStatebudgetorof costs; MoF to retain oversight of Pricing
Governmentdecision.                  Commission'sbudget.]
                                                                                    More reliable pricing mechanisms facilitate private sector investment and
Give the EPC the power to instigate Enact an acceptable electricity law, a gas law, maximisereturnstotheState: EPCpricingcriteriaandtheirimplementationappear
pricereviewsonitsowninitiative.      andadistrictheatinglaw. [Newelectricityand appropriate. Regulatoryframeworkconsideredamongthebestintheregion,withEPC
                                     gas law enacted, with implementation starting demonstrating technical competence, transparent procedures, and considerable
Make any changes necessary to the in January 2002. Need for new DH law autonomy. ForLPC,pricingoftransmissionanddistributionservicesappearstoallow
LPC and LG's statutes and reportedlyreducedbyotherlegislation.]                     reasonablereturnonassetsanddonotcreateabarriertoentryforelectricitytrade[see
procedures to ensure that tariff                                                    Krishnaswamy and Stuggins, Op. Cit., p. 71]. LG's retail prices lower than most
proposals are delivered to EPC in a Complete, by the same date, the regulatory comparatorcountries(exceptthoseoperatingataloss),andmarginbetweenretailand
timelymanner.                       environment for energy by extending the wholesale/borderpricewithinrangeofcomparatorcountries.[see"RegionalStudy...for
                                    powersoftheNational ControlCommission NaturalGas,"Op.Cit.,p.10.]
                                    for Prices and Energy Activities (EPC) to
                                    include the licensing and supervision of
                                    operators, norms for the trading of power
                                    and gas, service quality, and consumer
                                    protection. [Implemented; embodied in
                                    electricity,gasandenergylaws.]
1.CoreMeasuresinBoldfont;commentsonstatusofcoremeasures(andotherselectedmeasures)in
[bracketedItalics].
2.Originallystatedoutcomesin Boldfont;commentsonrealizationofoutcomesinItalics




                                                                                  - 42 -

D.6:Objective:Achievingeconomicpricingandfinancialstabilityintheenergysector

                             REFORMMEASURES1                                                               OUTCOMESANDOUTPUTS2
           ByJune2000             ByJune2001(LaterextendedtoJune2002)
Gasandelectricitypriceswere       Short-term debt of LPC eliminated, with the Energy utilities are able to fully service financing needs without recourse to
increasedeffectiveJanuary1,2000.  exception of working capital needs. Governmentsupport: Utilitiesoperatingprofitablywithnogovernmentsupport.
LPCmustraisefundstoservice        [Substantial reduction in ST Debt of LPC by
immediatedebtservicingneeds.      June 2001; Debt Service Coverage Ratio
LPCtoinitiateconversionofshort-   estimatedtohaveincreasedfrom0.38in1998
termdebttolonger-termmaturity.    to2.0in2000.]

Initiateanassessmentofpricing
criteriaforLPCandLGasto                                                        Prices reflecting efficient use of capital attracting private investors: LPC earned a
consistencywithattractionofprivate                                             9.8%returnonequity(6.5%onassets)in2001. FiguresforLGnotyetavailable.
investors. Establishincentivesfor Initiatechangesinlegalframeworkrequiredto
downwardpricepressure.            implement the change in pricing criteria. Revised pricing incentives reduce some energy prices: Rebalancing of electricity
                                  [Electricity and Gas Laws, combined with pricesin2002resultedinareductionofsomeprices,whiletheaverageroseby5%.
Initiatepriceformulationtoreflect associated secondary legislation provide the
restructuringofLPC(separate       neededframework.]
pricingofnetworkandancillary
services).                        Implement the revised pricing criteria,
                                  reflecting the structural changes in LPC.
                                  [Pricingcriteriabeingimplemented]
1.CoreMeasuresin Boldfont;commentsonstatusofcoremeasures(andotherselectedmeasures)in
[bracketedItalics].
2.OriginallystatedoutcomesinBoldfont;commentsonrealizationofoutcomesinItalics.




                                                                             - 43 -

E. Agriculture:(Responsible:MinistryofAgriculture)

E.1.Objective:Enhancingfiscaltransparencyandsustainability

                                REFORMMEASURES1                                                                OUTCOMESANDOUTPUTS2
           ByJune2000                   ByJune2001(LaterextendedtoJune2002)
Introduce measures to restrict -Maintainmeasurestakenpriortothefirsttranche; Agricultural support mechanisms operating in a way which increases
budget expenditures on market [not maintained during 2001, but restored in 2002] fiscaltransparencyandsustainabilityandtightenscontrolofplanningand
regulation and income support and and shift towards decoupled support measures, spending processes, while contributing to the development of EU-
thereby shift some of the risk of [shift to decoupled measures maintained] by consistent financial monitoring and control procedures: Steadymovement
decreases in market prices away introducing EU-consistent financial safeguards for toward EU consistent forms and mechanisms for support, together with EU-
from the government, including implementation of support measures (such as base consistentfinancialcontrols;transparencyofAFMRAoperationssubstantially
setting a budget cap on such area and animal numbers for administration of improved; reductions in agricultural spending (by 18% between 2000 and
expenditures,    elimination     of directpayments)thatreducetheunpredictabilityof 2001)withthedecreaseconcentratedinmarketregulationandincomesupport
(budgetary)            open-ended program costs [Institutional mechanisms for (28% reduction); while AFMRA's accumulated losses were substantially
commitments/      refrain     from decoupledsupportinplace.]                               reduced (from Ltl. 180 mn. in August 1998 to about Ltl. 57 mn. at end-
introducing others, and ensuring -WithintheframeworkofEUintegration,introducefor December2002).
that sugar market regulation all agricultural support programs, the same financial
mechanismsareself-financing.        planning, accounting, and control procedures required
                                    bytheEUfortheadministrationofpre-accessionfunds
Adopt measures to improve by the National Paying Agency. [National rural
AFMRA operational and financial development program placed under National Paying
performance and move it toward Agency.]
what will be needed for EU -Restructure the AFMRA governance and
intervention operations, including: operational procedures, including stricter financial
a) submit to the bank a plan to control and auditing. [Governance improved by Increased accountability and higher transparency of AFMRA and its
restructure    governance       and adding MoF and MoE to governing board; financial financial operations and reduction in its costs and the uncertainty of its
operational procedures, introduce control improved with audits by both State Audit and costs. AFMRAtransparencyandfinancialcontrolssubstantiallyimprovedand
stricter financial control and external private auditor; and operations improved both the volume of its transactions and its accumulated losses substantially
auditing procedures, and prohibit through management audits by State Control Agency reduced.
the expansion of its activities andMoA.]
beyond that of Government -Beginning with the 2001 budget preparation, remove
approved intervention programs; theGovernmentloanguaranteesforAFMRAfromthe
and b) ensure that AFMRA can RLGF so that guarantees to AFMRA are operated on
operate within a limited allocation the same basis as other Government loan guarantees.
from the agriculture budget by [Guarantees for AFMRA loans continue to be from
designing intervention policies and RLGF, but issue substantively resolved by progressive
the AFMRA operations in a way reductioninRLGFguaranteelimits,andevensteeper
that costs to the budget are declines in guarantees for AFMRA as RLGF has
minimized.                          increased guarantees for farmers, while reducing its
                                    total guarantees. Thus guarantees outstanding to
                                    AFMRA's have been declining in nominal terms since
                                    2000, while AFMRA has substantially reduced its
                                    accumulatedlossesandborrowing.]                         Reduction in the repayment risk to RLGF and improvement inaccessto
                                    -RevisethestatutesoftheRLGFtobroadentherange farmcredit: RGLFguaranteelimitsprogressivelyreduced;compositionmore
                                    of clients eligible for RLGF guarantees to facilitate diverse,asAFMRA'sshareofguaranteesdeclinesrelativetoloanstofarmers;
                                    implementation of EU SAPARD programs and, loanstofarmersnowmadeformorediverserangeofruralactivities;creditto
                                    accordingly, increase the loan reserves.[Statuterevised agriculturerosefromLtl.112.7mnin2000toLtl.166.9mnin2002.
                                    andloanreservesincreased.]
1.CoreMeasuresinBoldfont;commentsonstatusofcoremeasures(andotherselectedmeasures)in
[bracketedItalics].
2.OriginallystatedoutcomesinBoldfont;commentsonrealizationofoutcomesinItalics




                                                                                  - 44 -

E.2.ObjectiveCreatingastable,moreconsistentandlessdistorting policyenvironment

                            REFORMMEASURES1                                                            OUTCOMESANDOUTPUTS2
            ByJune2000                ByJune2001(LaterextendedtoJune2002)
Prepare and submit to the Bank a Maintain the measures taken prior to the Stabilityindesignandimplementationofcurrentnationalpoliciesandconsistency
detailedshort-termactionplanforthe first tranche and specify and introduce in their evolution toward EU support policies, implementation mechanisms, and
agricultural policy and market measures to implement a medium-term monitoringandcontrolprocedures:
regulation   measures   for    2000 strategy, [not fully maintained during
programs, including the supporting 2001(with temporary restoration of foodgrain A transparent, stable, and predictable medium-term decision environment for
legal     framework,    institutional price intervention and new minimum ex- privateandgovernmententities:
structures, monitoring and financial factory sugar) but these policy reversals
controlprocedures,andestimatedcost eliminated in 2002; New law on agriculture Although there are still significant ad hoc, year-to-year policy variations (e.g., the
and sources of financing (consistent andruraldevelopment,effectivefromJanuary potential temporary reintroduction of milk price interventions for the 2003 summer
with amendments to Article 7 of the 2003,removeslegalbasisforsettingminimum season), there has been a clear movement toward EU-consistent interventions and
LawonStateRegulationofEconomic prices.] including on the institutional front implementation and financial control mechanisms. The new law on Agriculture and
RelationsinAgriculture)              the full implementation of parcel and crop Rural Development should also help increase the stability and predictability of the
                                     declaration and animal identification and policyenvironment.
Approve      and    announce     the registration systems [These systems have
comprehensive set of new policy and beenimplemented.]
market regulation measures for 2000
programs and ensure stability and Approveandannouncethecomprehensiveset
continuityofmeasuresthroughoutthe ofnewpolicyandmarketregulationmeasures
year.                                 for2001byJune1,2000,asstipulatedbyLaw
                                      on State Regulation of Economic Relations in
Eliminatepricesubsidiesfor            Agriculture. [Announced, but generally with
grainsandmilkandensurethat            delays in 2001 and 2002, reducing the
marketregulationmeasures              effectiveness of these measures in influencing
(suchasMMPP,targetand                 farmerdecisions.]

interventionprices,ifused)are         Reform the national and regional agricultural
setbelowtheworldmarket                administration, including subordination of
pricelevelsnottodistortthe            regional agricultural officers to the MOAand
marketandtoenableprivate              adoption of EU-required planning, accounting
transactions.Refrainfrom              and control procedures. [County agricultural
introducingnewmeasuresthat            officers now report to National Paying
havedistortingeffect,relying          Agency, while local municipal agricultural
insteadonsafetynetmeasures            offices report to municipal authorities; EU
thatprovidelimitedand                 administrative procedures adopted for

infrequentintervention.               SAPARD-administered rural development
                                      activities.]
1.CoreMeasuresinBoldfont;commentsonstatusofcoremeasures(andotherselectedmeasures)in
[bracketedItalics].
2.Originallystatedoutcomesin Boldfont;commentsonrealizationofoutcomesinItalics




                                                                                   - 45 -

E.3.Objective:Raisingcompetitivenessoftheagri-foodsectorandvitalityoftheruraleconomy

                             REFORMMEASURES1                                                                    OUTCOMESANDOUTPUTS2
            ByJune2000                 ByJune2001(LaterextendedtoJune2002)
                                       ApproveandsubmittoSeimasaconstitutional Enhanced land market activity and consolidation of farm operations will lead to
                                       amendment and laws to permit agricultural improved structures and efficiency of primary farming: Too early to see
Approve and submit to Seimas Land land ownership by domestic legal entities. measurable impact of this amendment, but these expectations appear reasonable.
Law     amendments      to   remove [Constitutional      amendment        permitting Reportedlyrentalmarketactivityhadprovidedsomeflexibilityinadvanceofthislong-
constraints on the use of agricultural ownershipbydomesticlegalentitiesapproved awaitedamendment.
landforalternativepurposes.            and operational; amendment also allows
                                       ownershipbyforeignentitiesandindividuals, Improved functioning of marketsforlandandcapitalinagriculturewillincrease
Submit to Seimas draft amendments butwitha7-yearphaseinperiod.]                       accesstocreditandencourageprivateinvestment.Betteraccesstocreditwillalso
to the Law on Shareholding                                                            increase farmers' access to SAPARD funds: Again, while it is too early to expect
Companies to eliminate restrictions Approve and submit to Seimas the draft measurableeffects,theseexpectationsarereasonable. Loanstoagricultureincreased
on circulation of farmersharesinthe Consolidation Act, designed to facilitate land bynearly50%between2000and2002.
agri-foodindustry.                     consolidation   and    discourage      further
                                       fragmentation in agricultural holdings. [Land Higher quality of farm produce and less distorting market regulations will
                                       consolidation regulation and programs improve competitiveness of the food industry in domestic and external markets:
Ensure enforcement of newraw milk included in land reform and land use Majorshiftsincompositionanddirectionofagriculturalexports[withgrowingshares
quality standards introduced January legislation submitted to Seimas in 2002 and of higher value-added processed agricultural products and increased shares exported
1, 2000, so that the first necessary stillunderdiscussion.]                           to the more quality-conscious EU and OECD markets] strongly suggestive of
step in quality improvement is not                                                    significantrestructuringofsectorinprogress.
delayed.                               Support competitiveness of the food industry
                                       by making satisfactory progress on the
                                       National Acquis Adoption Program for
                                       development and implementation of quality
                                       requirements and restructuring of the food
                                       qualitycontrolsystem. [Workonthisreported
                                      to be progressing in satisfactory way on a
                                      clear timetable closely monitored by
                                      governmentintegrationcommittee.]

                                      Besides provision of national co-financing of
                                      EU SAPARD, ensure continuation of the
                                      investment and rural development grant
                                      programs within the agricultural budget and
                                      limittheinterestratesubsidyelementofthese
                                      programs to the level in the planned 2000
                                      budget.     [Interest rate subsidy element
                                      appears to be substantially reduced.(at Ltl.
                                      1.2mn in 2002, down significantly from over
                                      Ltl. 5mn in the previous two years) while
                                      programs     for   investment     and    rural
                                      development grants continue in budget, their
                                      sizeisdwarfedbytheSAPARDfunding,which
                                      istakingonthemajorroleinthisarea.]
1.CoreMeasuresinBoldfont;commentsonstatusofcoremeasures(andotherselectedmeasures)in
[bracketedItalics].
2.OriginallystatedoutcomesinBoldfont;commentsonrealizationofoutcomesinItalics.




                                                                                    - 46 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not Applicable: Total loan amount was EUR 108.29 million (approximately US$ 101 million, given period
average EUR/US$ rates for 2000, Q2), of which EUR 54,686,450 was disbursed on loan effectiveness,
with the remainder (originally to be disbursed at second tranche release) cancelled in June 2002.




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 48 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              October 1999            16     Task team leader; 1 Economist; 2
                                             Macroeconomic framework,
                                             fiscal impact, structural
                                             benchmarks; 3 Energy and
                                             consultant; 2 Social
                                             insurance/assistance; 1 Budget
                                             management; 2 Agriculture; 3
                                             Privatae sector development;
                                             Country Director


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              April - May 2002        17     Task Team Leader; 2
                                             Macroeconomic framework,
                                             fiscal impact, structural
                                             benchmarks; 1 Budget
                                             management; 1 Social
                                             insurance; 2 Energy; 2
                                             Agriculture; 3 Privatae sector
                                             development; 5 Consultants


 Supervision
              November 2000             6    Task team leader; 1                  S               S
                                             Agriculture; 1 Energy; 1
                                             Social protection; 1 Public
                                             sector development; 1
                                             Macroeconomic framework
              June 2001                 8    Task team leader; 1 Budget           S               S
                                             management; 1 Macroeconomic
                                             framework; 1 Energy; 1
                                             Agriculture; 1 Pension reform
              October 2001              8    Task team leader; Agriculture; 2     S               S
                                             Energy; 1 Private sector
                                             development; 1 Macroeconomic
                                             framework; 2 Pension reform
              May 2002                  3    Task team leader; Country            S               U
                                             Manager; 1 Research analyst

 ICR




                                              - 49 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           57.87                       $155,344
  Appraisal/Negotiation                75.08                       $233,024
  Supervision                          60.56                       $237,610
  ICR                                     8.5                       $34,000
  Total                              202.01                        $659,978




                                            - 50 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 51 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 52 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.  SAL-II President's Report, World Bank, (Report No. P 7387 LT, June 28, 2000).
2.  Lithuania: Country Assistance Strategy, World Bank (Report No. 19135-LT, April 19,
    1999).
3.  Lithuania: SAL-I Implementation Completion Report; World Bank (Report No. P 7387 LT,
    April 12, 1999).
4.  Lithuania: Country Assistance Evaluation; Operations Evaluation Department, World
    Bank, April 15, 2003.
5.  Financial Sector Assessment Program: Lithuania; World Bank and International Monetary
    Fund, March 2002.
6.  Lithuania: Study of Administrative Barriers to Investment; Foreign Investment Advisory
    Service, World Bank Group, October 1999.
7.  Private Sector Participation in the Power Sector in ECA Countries: Lessons Learnt from the
    Last Decade; Krishnaswamy and Stuggins, ECA Region, World Bank, Summer 2002.
8.  Lithuania: Implementation Completion Report for the Power Rehabilitation Project; World
    Bank, April 2003 draft.
9.  Privatization and Company Review, Lithuania Gas; James Welch, Spring 1999 (an
    informal report prepared by the World Bank for the Lithuanian Minister of Economy).
10. Regional Study of Regulatory Reform and Supply/Demand for Natural Gas, The Baltics,
    Poland, South-eastern Europe; draft report by Economic Consulting Associates, Ltd. for the
    World Bank, February 2003.
11. Agreed Minutes of Negotiation, SAL-II, 25 May 2000.
12. Lithuania: Country Economic Memorandum; ECA Region, World Bank, (Report No.
    25005-LT), October 2002.
13. Agricultural Situation in the Candidate Countries: Country Report on Lithuania; European
    Commission, Director-General for Agriculture, July 2002.
14. Minutes of Upstream Review Meeting on SAL-II Initiating Concept Memorandum, March
    17, 2000.
15. Supervision Mission Documents: Aide Memoires, 8 June 2001, 26 October 2001, 14 May
    2002; Back to Office Reports, 19 June 2001, 30 October 2001; Project Status Reports, 30
    November 2000, 22 June 2001, 13 November 2001, 3 September 2002.
16. Lithuania: An Opportunity for Success; A World Bank Country Study (in two volumes),
    August 1998.
17. Lithuania: Issues in Municipal Finance; World Bank Report No. 23716-LT, May 2002.




                                                - 53 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Assessment
A. Letter of April 30, 2003:




                                        - 54 -

B. More Detailed Assessment [Letter of May 22, 2003]:




                                             - 55 -

- 56 -

- 57 -

Additional Annex 9. Core Reform Measures

                                                            Core Reform Measures
                      By Board presentation                            By Second Tranche (initially expected June 2001; later June
                                                                                                      2002)
Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework                                 Medium-Term Macroeconomic Framework
1) Maintenance of an appropriate medium-term macroeconomic          1) Maintenance of an appropriate medium-term macroeconomic
framework.                                                          framework.

Budget management                                                   Budget management
1) Submit to Seimas Law on Budget Structure which ends              1) Satisfactory plan and concrete timeline for introduction of
borrowing by appropriation managers and ensures that all            comprehensive financial statements in the documentation for budget
borrowing by budget units is undertaken by the Ministry of          planning and execution, followed by satisfactory progress in
Finance    and   financing     is  carried   out   through  budget  implementation.
appropriations.
                                                                    2) Beginning with the 2001 budget, develop and implement guidelines
2) Preparation by the Ministry of Finance of a revenue forecast for which ensure a declining level of guarantees to commercial activities
2001, showing the sensitivity of revenue to different GDP growth    except public projects of national priority financed by international
assumptions, and      the potential impact of any tax changes       financial institutions, as well as an increasing degree of risk-sharing
currently under consideration.                                      by other parties.

3) Development of procedures for undertaking an orderly             3) Improve capacity to monitor borrowing by, and other commitments
response to shortfalls of revenue relative to forecasts.            of, all public entities, including (1) local governments, (2) AFMRA,
                                                                    (3) SoDra, and (4) other public entities.

                                                                    Pension reform/social assistance
Pension reform/social assistance                                    1) Government provides evidence that pension policies satisfactory to
1) Government submits to Seimas draft amendments to current         the Bank are in place that (a) help achieve fiscal balance in the
social insurance law, satisfactory to the World Bank, that adjust   short-term, and increase certainty in benefit adjustments and (b) that
the rate of increase in retirement ages, treatment of working       the Seimas has been provided with analyses of the current law pension
pensioners, sickness benefit rules and other appropriate measures   program's long term fiscal balance, including options for possible
directed to achieving fiscal balance in the short-term.             increases in retirement ages and possible reductions in contribution
                                                                    rates and changes to and under existing law to encourage longer work
2) Provide to the Bank: (a) evidence that a working group has       and increased compliance; and (c) introduce improved disability
been chartered reporting to the Prime Minister to develop           criteria and certification procedures.
proposals as to how Lithuania might best provide a basic level of
support in old age for all citizens and that comprehensively        2) Submission to Seimas of a satisfactory policy package that will
addresses the role of voluntary and mandatory funded pensions in    achieve the goal of a basic level of support for all citizens and that
Lithuania in both the state and private sector; and (b) an action   determines the role of privately-managed funded pensions in the
plan and realistic timetable, satisfactory to the Bank, for the     mandatory social insurance pension system in Lithuania.
completion of an options paper that includes concrete proposals
and enabling legislation addressing these matters.                  3) Submission of satisfactory evidence that policies are in place to put
                                                                    early retirement and other supplementary benefits in the state sector on
                                                                    a funded basis in the long-term and that facilitate the creation of
                                                                    funded pensions in the private sector for the same ends.

                                                                    Private sector development
Private sector development                                          1) For new privatizations starting June 2000, the Government will
1) For new privatizations, firm and binding commitment by the       engage financial advisors and sales agents, as required, using open
Government to; engage financial advisors and sales agents, as       tenders; finance needed retainer fees; and use transparent and open
required, using open tenders; finance needed retainer fees; and use sales procedures.
transparent and open sales procedures.
2) For the privatization of Lithuanian Savings Bank (LSB), the      2) The government to offer LSB for sale to a strategic buyer using an
Government will select and hire an internationally reputed          open, international bidding process.
investment bank, following best practices, to sell control of the
LSB to a reputable private shareholder banking institution, using
transparent and open bidding sales procedures. The Government
will contract with the investment bank, inter alia, that its
privatization plan to be submitted to the Government will include
a time-bound restructuring plan or plans for LSB.
3) Submit to the Seimas amendments to the Law on Companies to       3) Submit to the Seimas a new accounting law based on IAS and EU
require audit of all joint stock companies  with the exception of  directives, which establishes a general requirement of accounting and
small, private companies  by auditors qualified in accordance      financial reporting based on these standards and directives, but which
with the Law on Audit.                                              leaves the preparation and approval of accounting standards to a
4) In close consultation with the Bank and IMF, revise new draft    private sector driven body. The draft law should be finalized in close
legislation on enterprise restructuring to be in line with          consultation with private sector stakeholders and the World Bank.
international best practice and consistent with overall commercial  4) Submit the new legislation on enterprise restructuring, satisfactory
legal framework and therefore satisfactory to the Bank, and         to the Bank, to Seimas.
submit to Cabinet.




                                                                      - 58 -

Energy sector reform
1) Select the market model for power and gas, consistent with EU      Energy sector reform
Directives and submit to the Seimas.                                  1) Government to offer for sale at least 51% of LPC's distribution
                                                                      assets through an open international tender to international strategic
2) Lithuanian Power Company (LPC) to establish generation,            investors.
transmission, distribution as separate profit centers with their own
set of accounts and clearly identified transmission and distribution  2) Government to offer at least 41% of LG for sale through an open
service prices. A plan will be established for a competitive market   international bidding process to an international strategic buyer.
for generation.
                                                                      3) Complete the regulatory environment for energy by extending the
3) The government will hire a reputable international investment      powers of the National Control Commission for Prices and Energy
bank to undertake the privatization of LPC using an open,             Activities (EPC) to include the licensing and supervision of operators,
international tender.    The Request for Proposals, criteria for      norms for the trading of power and gas, service quality, consumer
selection and short list will be sent to the Bank for review and will protection and other responsibilities.
be satisfactory to the Bank.

4) The government will issue a Request for Proposals to hire a
reputable international investment bank to undertake the
privatization of Lithuanian Gas (LG) using an open, international
tender. The Request for Proposals, will be sent to the Bank for
review and will be satisfactory to the Bank.

Agricultural reform
1) Introduce measures to restrict budget expenditures on market       Agricultural reform
regulation and income support and thereby shift some of the risk      1) Maintain measures taken prior to the first tranche; and shift towards
of decreases in market prices away from the government,               decoupled support measures, by introducing EU-consistent financial
including setting a budget cap on such expenditures, elimination      safeguards for implementation of support measures (such as base area
of (budgetary) open-ended commitments/ refrain from introducing       and animal numbers for administration of direct payments) that reduce
others, and ensuring that sugar market regulation mechanisms are      the unpredictability of program costs.
self-financing.

2) Adopt measures to improve operational and financial
performance of the Agri-Food Market Regulatory Agency
(AFMRA) and move it toward what will be needed for EU                 2) Restructure the AFMRA governance and operational procedures,
intervention operations, including: a) submit to the bank a plan to   including stricter financial control and auditing.
restructure governance and operational procedures, introduce
stricter financial control and auditing procedures, and prohibit the
expansion of its activities beyond that of Government approved
intervention programs; and b) ensure that AFMRA can operate
within a limited allocation from the agriculture budget by
designing intervention policies and the AFMRA operations in a
way that costs to the budget are minimized.

3) Eliminate price subsidies for grains and milk and ensure that
market regulation measures, if used, are set below the world
market price levels not to distort the market and to enable private   3) Maintain the measures taken prior to the first tranche and specify
transactions. Refrain from introducing new measures that have         and introduce measures to implement a medium-term strategy,
distorting effect, relying instead on safety net measures that        including on the institutional front the full implementation of parcel
provide limited and infrequent intervention.                          and crop declaration and animal identification and registration
                                                                      systems.




                                                                       - 59 -

- 60 -

