Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7030 LT
Loan Agreement
(Second Structural Adjustment Loan)
between 
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 26, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7030 LT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
May 30, 2000, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to 
the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has 
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the 
Borrower by making the Loan in two  tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 
1, 1999, with modification set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
“’Project’ means the program referred to in the Preamble to 
the Loan Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 3.08 is modified to read:
“Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Loan  Account shall be made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of 
the Loan Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Loan from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of 
the Loan Agreement and of these General 
Conditions.”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish  to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, 
on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble 
to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and 
the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purpose of the Loan.”; and
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AFMRA” means Agri-Food Market Regulatory Agency of the 
Borrower, or any successors thereto;
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, or any 
successor thereto; and
(d)
“SoDra” means State Social Insurance Board of the Borrower, 
or any successors thereto.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equal to one hundred eight million two hundred ninety thousand Euro (EUR 
108,290,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) 
and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in support of the Program and 
in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) 
of the General Conditions.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its Central Bank, a deposit account in Euro on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any 
time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a payment 
for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund such 
amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the 
aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account 
shall have reached the equivalent of EUR 54,686,450, unless the Bank 
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (A) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program; (B) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank; and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement have been taken.
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the 
Bank may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 
days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps 
satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (A), (B) and (C) above, then the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to one million eighty two thousand nine hundred Euro (EUR 
1,082,900). The Borrower agrees that on or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Page  4
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in 
respect of each Interest Period at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the
Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in full on June 15, 2011.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from 
a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said Variable 
Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, 
as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless 
otherwise notified by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis applicable to the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate 
for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(d)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate 
Cap or Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has 
requested that the premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
Page  5
pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to 
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the date of the Bank’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Page  6
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
J. Tumo-Vaizganto 8A/2
Vilnius, Lithuania
Telex:
Facsimile:
261252  FIMA  SU
370 2 
227 424
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
By /s/ Stasys Sakalauskas
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
By /s/ Johannes F. Linn
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank 
by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                      -
Alcoholic beverages
121                      -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, 
tobacco
refuse
122                
     -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes)
525                       -
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667 
      -
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718                     718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors 
728                     728.43
Tobacco processing 
machinery
897                     897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum
group metals (except 
watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971                        -   
Gold, non-monetary 
Page  8
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of 
this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of 
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party, and any other goods designated as environmentally hazardous by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank);
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories, or (b) on account of any payment to persons or 
entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during 
the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to 
remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
A.
Budget Management
1.
The Borrower has developed a satisfactory plan and timeline for 
introduction of comprehensive financial statements in the documentation 
for budget planning and execution, and provided evidence of satisfactory 
progress in its implementation.
2.
The Borrower has proposed a 2001 budget which ensures a declining 
level of guarantees to commercial activities except public projects of 
national priority financed by international financial institutions, and 
furnished to the Bank a report demonstrating that the MOF has developed 
and started implementation of guidelines which ensure an increasing 
degree of risk sharing.
3.
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank a report demonstrating its 
improved capacity to monitor borrowing by, and other commitments of, all 
public entities, including: (a) local governments; (b) AFMRA; (c) SoDra; 
and (d) other public entities.
B.
Pension Reform/Social Assistance
4.
The Borrower has submitted evidence that: (a) pension policies, 
satisfactory to the Bank, are in place which assure fiscal balance in the 
short-term, and increase certainty in benefits adjustments; (b) the 
Parliament has been provided with analysis of the existing pension 
program’s long term fiscal balance, including options for possible 
increase in retirement age and possible reductions in contribution rates 
and changes under existing law to encourage longer work and increased 
compliance; and (c) improved disability criteria and certification 
Page  9
procedures have been introduced.
5.
The Borrower’s Government has submitted to the Parliament a 
satisfactory policy package that will achieve the goal of a basic level 
of support for all citizens and determine the role of privately-managed 
funded pensions in the mandatory social insurance pension system in 
Republic of Lithuania.
6.
The Borrower has submitted satisfactory evidence that policies are 
in place which provide for early retirement and other supplementary 
benefits in the state sector on a funded basis in the long-term and 
facilitate the creation of funded pensions in the private sector.
C.
Private Sector Development
7.
For new privatizations of significant national importance, from 
June 2000, the Borrower has: (a) engaged financial advisors and sales 
agents, using open tenders; (b) financed applicable retainer fees; and 
(c) committed to use transparent and open sales procedures. 
8.
The Borrower has completed the privatization of Lithuanian Savings 
Bank on a competitive basis using an international open tender to 
strategic investors, under procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
9.
The Borrower’s Government has submitted to the Parliament a draft 
accounting law based on International Accounting Standards and the 
European Union directives, satisfactory to the Bank.
10.
The Borrower’s Government has submitted to the Parliament draft 
legislation on enterprise restructuring, satisfactory to the Bank.
D.
Energy Sector Reform
11.
The Borrower has offered for sale at least 51 percent of Lithuanian 
Power Company’s distribution assets through an open international tender 
to international strategic investors.
12.
The Borrower has offered for sale shares representing at least 41 
percent of Lithuanian Gas’ share capital through an open international 
tender to international strategic investors.
13.
The Borrower has completed the regulatory framework for energy 
sector by extending powers of the National Control Commission for Prices 
and Energy Activities to include, inter alia, licensing and supervision 
of operators, norms for the trading of power and gas, service quality, 
and consumer protection.
E.
Agricultural Reform
14.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence demonstrating 
continued implementation of agreed measures to restrict budget 
expenditures on market regulation and income support, and introduce 
EU-consistent financial safeguards for the implementation of such support 
measures.
15.
The Borrower has restructured the governance and operational 
procedures of the AFMRA, including stricter financial control and 
auditing procedures.
16.
The Borrower has provided satisfactory evidence demonstrating 
Page  10
continued maintenance of the agreed market regulation measures, and 
introduced measures to implement a medium-term strategy for parcel and 
crop declaration and animal identification and registration systems.
