Report No. PID11464
Project Name                      St. Lucia-OECS Education Development Project
Region                            Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                            ES-Secondary Education
Project                           P077712
Borrower(s)      OECS countries (Dominica, Grenada, St.
Christopher and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent
and the Grenadines)
Implementing Agency(ies)         MINISTRIES OF EDUCATION OF THE OECS
St. Christopher (Kitts) & Nevis: Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and Education
Address: P.O. Box 333, Lockhart Street,
Basseterre, St. Kitts, West Indies
Contact Person: Osmond Petty, Permanent
Secretary; Bronte Gonsalves, Education Planner
(Nevis)
Tel: (869) 465-2521
Fax: (869) 465-5202
Emails: secpet@hotmail.com;
edunevbg@caribsurf.com
St. Lucia: Ministry of Education, Culture and
Labor
Address: New NIS Building Waterfront, Castries,
St. Lucia
Contact Person: Didacus Jules, Permanent
Secretary
Tel: (758) 451-6725
Fax: (758) 453-2299
Email: Julesd@Candw.Lc
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared                         March 28, 2002
Projected Appraisal Date         April 2, 2002
Projected Board Date              July 11, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The island states of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) face
considerable development challenges due to their small size and extreme
vulnerability to external shocks and natural disasters. The events of
September 11 resulted in a reduction in tourist earnings that severely
impacted on their economies, where diversification remains limited. The OECS
countries rely primarily on three sectors for external income: (i) tourism,
which accounts for more than half of the earnings; (ii) mono-cropping in
banana or sugar, where they are facing declining preferential access to
export markets and (iii) offshore financial and business services, for which
they have recently come under increasing international pressure to strengthen
their regulatory infrastructure as well as to reduce "harmful" tax



competition.
All the OECS countries have put education at the center of their strategy to
diversify their economy to ensure sustainable growth and to improve the
cohesion of the society by better integrating youth. In November 2000, after
a large consultation process, the OECS countries developed an Eastern
Caribbean Development Strategy with ten core priorities, among them two
related directly to this project: (i) developing human capital through
continued investments in better quality health and education, especially
improved access to secondary and tertiary education and (ii) addressing
pressing social issues, particularly chronic unemployment and problems
associated with youth. From there, each OECS country started a participatory
process to plan their long-term education development. At a Regional level,
the OECS Secretariat (through the OECS Education Reform Unit - OERU) is
attempting to harmonize those strategies. A framework for reform with a
horizon of 2010, "OECS Education Reform Strategy: Pillars for Partnership and
Progress," was adopted by the Ministers of Education in June 2001.
The Bank has adopted a multi-country approach to assist the OECS countries to
move forward with their education sector plans. The OECS Education
Development Project is an umbrella program that addresses issues common to
all countries yet allows for flexibility to address individual country needs.
Up to five potential countries (Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts and Nevis, St.
Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) will initiate sub-projects as they
are ready and have met the program's criteria for inclusion. St. Kitts and
Nevis and St. Lucia have completed their project preparation and will
negotiate with the Bank in the upcoming months.
2. Objectives
The overall program objective is to build human capital in the OECS which, in
turn, will contribute to the diversification of their economy and more
sustainable growth. This objective will be achieved by: (i) increasing
access to secondary education; (ii) improving the quality of the teaching and
learning process, with more direct interventions at the school level and a
focus on student-centered learning, and (iii) strengthening management of the
sector and governance of schools.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has a standing commitment to provide financial and technical
assistance to the Caribbean region and an ongoing relationship with the
ministries of education. A collaborative approach has yielded increased
cooperation between the Bank and the countries, and among countries. The
Bank has participated in the Caribbean Education Task Force in its quest to
establish a regional strategy and is knowledgeable about regional sector
issues.
The Bank has carried out extensive sector work in secondary education and can
provide best practice examples of initiatives at this level. Particular to
this project, the Bank's team offers expertise and familiarity with
international secondary education reforms and school-based programs for
youth, particularly in LAC countries.
The Bank has encouraged collaboration among donors (DFID, OECS/OERU, CIDA) in
-2 -



the project and has assisted in mobilizing additional sources of financing.
The Bank organized and financed a regional curriculum workshop, allowing OECS
representatives to engage in consensus building around lower secondary
curriculum issues. DFID, CXC and OERU representatives also participated to
ensure collaboration among donors and regional agencies.
4. Description
Component 1 (Access). This Component will finance: (i) construction of new
facilities for secondary education in under-served areas and (ii)
rehabilitation of existing schools to incorporate appropriate spaces for
Learning Resource Centers and computer and science laboratories and to expand
the number of classrooms.
Component 2 (Quality Improvement). This component will enhance the school
teaching and learning environment, with more direct interventions at the
school level and a focus on student-centred learning, through financing of:
(i) curriculum enhancement, related teacher training and improved continuous
assessment; (ii) establishment of learning resource centers and improved
science laboratories and provision of relevant learning materials, books and
laboratory equipment; (iii) establishment of literacy and numeracy
enhancement programs and programs to support participation of disadvantaged
students, including learning support for less able learners; and (iv) use of
school development plans and provision of school improvement projects and
extracurricular activities for youth at risk.
Component 3 (Institutional Strengthening). This Component will finance: (i)
expansion of the Education Management Information System (EMIS) to link
schools with each other and with the Ministry of Education at the central
level, which should include reporting and supervision mechanisms as well as
the establishment of quality standards to be monitored on a continuous basis;
(b) improved supervision and support to schools through strengthening of
district education offices, the training of principals, the promotion of
parent participation and the implementation of decentralized maintenance
budgets.
Financing Total ( US$m) (tentative)
BORROWER (18.0)
IBRD (40.0)
Total Project Cost: 58.0
6. Implementation
In each country, a Project Management Unit (PMU), already established within
the respective Ministry of Education, will be responsible for project
coordination, management and implementation. A Project Coordinator has been
assigned by the ministry to coordinate project progress and will be the
principal link with the World Bank. The PMU will include the number of staff
members gauged necessary to carry out the coordination, procurement,
financial management and accounting of the project.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the OECS Education Development Project is confirmed by
the strong political support from each of the participating OECS Governments
-3 -



and the extensive stakeholder consultations that have gone into the design of
the long-term education sector plans and the subsequent project designs for
secondary education. On the financial side, a fiscal impact analysis of the
projects was undertaken in both St. Lucia and St. Kitts and Nevis, showing
generally acceptable financial burdens for the countries. It is expected that
actions under the project to bring more efficiency into the education sectors
will ultimately make both education sectors more financially sustainable.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The design of this project has benefited from lessons learned from recently
closed Bank-funded education projects in participating countries (St. Lucia,
Dominica and Grenada), from other similar Bank operations in other sectors
and from the experience of the Bank and DFID team members, consultants and
clients.
Flexibility must be factored into the project design and allowed for during
project implementation: In St. Lucia, the sector realized significant
strides towards system reform through changes in the current project content
to address pressing unanticipated needs. This has taught us that while there
can be broad agreement on the scope of assistance under specified components,
there needs to be room for maneuver within and across sub-components as
implementation progresses.
Donor coordination is paramount, but single-source funding is more easily
managed: Implementation of sector reforms is enhanced by greater
coordination of donor agencies. The aim of this program is to improve donor
coordination, stimulate donor investments and reduce transaction costs but
avoid the rigidity and complexity of a co-financed loan. We are engaged in
dialogue and parallel coordination of actions with DFID, CIDA, OECS/OERU,
UNESCO and EU in the planning of sector investments and the design of the
program, and DFID and the Bank are associated in the preparation and
implementation of the program.
Community participation in the design and implementation of projects is key:
All the countries have noted the importance of involving stakeholders in the
development of sector plans, and adopted a highly participatory process to
establish their national long-range education plans. This has carried over
into the preparation of the new project.
School improvement projects offer an opportunity to involve the school
community and can make a difference in the school climate: The Bank has
found, in countries across the region, that school improvement projects have
proved to be one of the most effective agents of change in schools. They
have given teachers and principals the autonomy to decide how best to improve
education quality in their schools, while extra-curricular activities have
allowed students more expression in determining the activities that are
interesting and meaningful to them, within the safe structure of the school
community. This program will incorporate these types of innovative
activities to promote school-based management, improve the school environment
and address existing problems with youth at risk.
Land sites for civil works must be decided upon before project initiation:
Due to unforeseen changes in costs as a result of land site changes in
previous projects, the participating countries have taken the steps during
- 4 -



preparation of their projects to settle issues relevant to proposed
construction sites before the project start date. These include school
mapping, property titles and ownership, encumbrances, utilities,
environmental impact and surveys. In addition, a general framework of
guidelines for environmental assessments will be provided to all new
countries coming in under the program.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:    St. Kitts & Nevis and St. Lucia have identified the sites for each
of the new schools, based on poverty assessments and school mapping data. As
the construction of schools has environmental implications, the islands are
small and there are environmental issues regarding the type of construction
(hurricane proof) and location, each borrower was asked to carry out for each
school an assessment of the environmental impact (EA). The EA for St. Kitts
has been reviewed by the Bank and is available at the Bank's Info Shop and in
St. Kitts. A general framework for the environmental assessment of land
sites and construction in all other countries is being drawn up in
collaboration with the Bank's Quality Assurance Team.
11. Contact Point:
Team Task Leader
Cynthia Hobbs
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-8580
Fax:   (202) 522-1201
12.     For information on other project related documents contact:
13.
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 5 -



