Page  1
February 2, 2001
The Right Honorable
Kenny D. Anthony
Office of the Prime Minister
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development
Greaham Louisy Administrative
Building Waterfront
Castries
St. Lucia
Re:
Japanese Grant for the Preparation of the OECS
Education Development Project Grant No. TF026539
Dear Prime Minister:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one hundred 
fifty-seven thousand four hundred and ten U.S. Dollars (US$157,410) (the Grant) to the 
following countries: the Commonwealth of Dominica, St. Kitts and Nevis, and St. Lucia 
(the Participating Countries).  St. Lucia (the Recipient) is one of the Participating 
Countries, and confirms that it understands that this grant is given for the benefit 
of all the Participating Countries.
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  This 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of your countersignature upon 
(i) receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you and 
(ii) receipt by the Bank of similar letter agreements for the Grant from the two (2) 
other Participating Countries.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
ST. LUCIA
By /s/ Kenny D. Anthony
Authorized Representative
Date:  April 30, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
Page  2
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the OECS Secondary 
Education Reform Project (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the 
Grant is given are to be carried out for the benefit of all Participating Countries 
and are as follows:
(a)
design and preparation of an expanded management information system for 
the "Institutional Strengthening" component of the Project (these Activities are 
estimated to cost US$54,240 equivalent);
(b)
provision of technical assistance to: (i) strengthen local school 
management and promote community participation; (ii) enhance the teaching development 
process; (iii) improve the design and use of learning spaces; and (iv) organize 
diverse student support services, targeting youth at risk (these Activities are 
estimated to cost US$82,020 equivalent); and
(c)
provision of technical assistance for the development of the Education 
Knowledge Network (EKN) (these Activities are estimated to cost US$21,150 equivalent).
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient and the other 
Participating Countries.  The Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent 
necessary to permit the Bank to carry out the Activities in its territory promptly and 
effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient shall 
indemnify the Bank for its proportionate share, as determined by the Bank, of  any 
costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in 
connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or 
willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
The Activities shall be completed by not later than September 26, 2001, or such 
later date as the Bank may establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  
Except in special circumstances, no proceeds of the Grant shall be used to fund 
Activities after Bank approval of financing for the Project, and the Closing Date 
shall not be extended beyond the expected date of such approval.  After the Closing 
Date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be governed, except as otherwise decided by the Bank, by the provisions 
of the Attachment to this Annex.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities pertaining to its territory. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a 
request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, 
terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities 
pertaining to its territory if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its obligations under this 
Letter Agreement; (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the 
Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the 
International Development Association shall have been suspended; or (c) the Activities 
and/or the right to receive Grant funds for the Activities were terminated or 
suspended in at least two (2) other Participating Countries.  The Bank may also 
terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to 
the Project in the territory of the Recipient; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its 
request for the Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project in its territory.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to 
any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Letter 
Agreement.
Attachment
Page  3
Consultants' Services
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of Statement 15.00 of the Bank's Administrative Manual, dated July 1997 
(the Administrative Manual), the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank 
in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Attachment.
2.
Services for some of the Activities under paragraph 1 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines applicable to Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection of Consultants.
3.
Services rendered by consulting firms for the Activities under paragraph 1 (a), 
(b) and (c) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions, which are consistent with the provisions of 
the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines 
(Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications).
4.
Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities under paragraph 1 
(a), (b) and (c) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions, which 
are consistent with the provisions of the Administrative Manual, of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
