INTERNATIONAL
FUND FOR
AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMNT
c-iZ a665-uar
DOCUMENT OF
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Report No. 6961-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SOUTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
December 11, 1987
Appraised on Behalf of the
International Fund for Agricultural Development
by the World Bank
Agriculture Operations
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without the authorization of the International Fund
for AQgricultural Development (IFAD).



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rate : US$ 1.00 - Uganda Shtllings (USh) 60.00 1/
: USh 1.00 = US$ 0.0167
: SDR 1.00 = US$ 1.32109 2/
: US$ 1.00 n SDR 0.75695
1/ After currency reform and exchlange rate adjustment of May 15, 1987
2/ As of 3ctober 31, 1987
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
CALENKAR
Fiscal Year:       July ' - June 30
Calendar Year:    January 1 - December 31
Cropping Season:  February - May
August - December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATICNS AND ACRONY'S
AD}      -        Agricultural Development Project  (Credit 1539-UG)
ARP      -        Agricultural Rehabilitation Project  (Credit 1328-UG)
CIAT     -        International Center for Tropical Agriculture
DAO      -        District Agricultural Officer
DFI      -        District Farm Institute
DOA      -        Department of Agriculture
EEC      -        European Economic Community
ERP      -        Economic Recovery Program
ERR      -        Economic Rate of Return
GOU      -        Government of uganda
ICB      -        International Competitive Bidding
ICC      -        Interministerial Coordinating Committee
IFAD     -        International Fund for Agricultural Development
ILO      -        International Labor Organization of the United Nations
IMF      -        International Monetary Fund
LCB      -        Local Competitive Bidding
MCM      -        Ministry of Cooperatives & Marketing
M & E    -        Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
MOA      -        Ministry of Agriculture
MOLG     -        Ministry of Local Government
PMB      -        Produce Marketing Board
PMU      -        Project Management Unit
RAO      -        Regional Agricultural Officer
RCC      -        Regional Coordination Committee
SIDA     -        Swedish International Development Agency
SOF      -        Special Operations Facility
UCB      -        Uganda Commercial Bank
UNCDF    -        United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP     -        United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF   -        United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
USAID    -        United States Agency for International Development
VTC      -        Variety Testing Center
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without the authorization of the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD).



Li/At
D~~~~> ?



UGANDA
SOUTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                         I   ii
I.      PROJECT BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   Pr...ject Background      ...........        ... ..      1
B.   Agriculture in the Sconomy..o .....................      1
C.   The National Economic Recovery Progrm ............       2
D.   Agricultural Institutions and Support Services..o.       5
S.   IFAD and Bank Group Support.......................       8
II.      PROJECT AREA AND BENEFICIARIES
A.  Area, Population and Living Standards ........................ 10
B    Infrstructure .............................. ............. ... ....  12
C.  Agriculture..o ..................... ...............      13
'.   Agricultural Credit ...............,,.,.. . .... ....    14
S.  Marketing ..........  16
F.   Other Regional Devvlopment Activities.............       16
III.     THE PROJECT
A.   Project Rationale...... ..................... ... 17
B.   Project Objectives and Descriptiono..0.00..0. ..o..      18
C.  Detailed Features.0.0000....0..*0....*............ ..     19
Adaptive Research and Extension................       19
Agricultural Inputs Supply.....................       20
Rehabilitation of Rural Access Roads...........       21
Project Management, MonitorinS and Evaluation..     21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in
May/June 1987, comprising J. Stemp and J. Coates (World Bank),
and  N. Chapman, I. Guest, P. Harrison and I. Walton
(Consultants). The mission was &ssisted by R. Williams (IFAD).
V. Ashworth contributee to the drafting of the report.



Page No.
D.  Project Costs .................................. .      22
E.   Start-up Activities       ......... .............. .   23
F.  Financing .............................. 24
G.   Procurement..........**.... o   .......... . . .*........., 25
H.  Disbursements.... ......................                27
I.  Accounts  and  Audits   ......................... * ...  28
J.  Women's Role         ...   ........... <                29
K.  Environmental Impct............*...4444444444.44444444.29
IV.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management........................    30
B.  Executing Agencies ....................                 30
C.  Training and TechnicalAssistance.................       35
D.  Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation... ......*....     35
E.  Implementation Schedules..........................      37
V.      PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.  smallholder                       Prdcin...........................37
B.  Marketin& of Project Output.......................      38
C.   Financial Viability of Smallholder Production.....     39
VI.      BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.   Benefits andJustification........................      40
B.  Economic Analysis..      ..... .................        41
C.  Risks .................................. 43
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED ..........................                44
List of Tables
Annexes
Annex 1:      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 2:      Inflation and Exchange Rate Assumptions
Annex 3s      Project Cost Tables
Annex 4:     Cost-Benefit Analysis
Annex 5:      Project Area Data
Annex 6:     List of Documents Available in the Project File
Annex 7:      Implementation Schedule
Annex 8:     Project Area Map
IBRD Map No. 20814



UOMID
SOUTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summarv
Borrower: The Republic of Uganda
Amount:   SDR 7.6 million (US$ 10.0 million equivalent)
Terms:    Standard IDA Terms with 40 year maturity
Project   Project objectives are to increase food production, incomes and
Descrip-  living standards of small farmers in the four districts of Southwest
tion:     Uganda.  Project costs of US$ 27.4 include: (a) Adaptive Research and
Extension: US$ 3.9 million for: (i) rehabilitation of two District
Farm Institutes and imp:ovement of facilities at a research substation
and a research farm; and (ii) strengthening of MOA's adaptive research
and extension activities through provision of vehicles, equipment,
technical assistance, training and incremental operating costs; (b)
Agricultural Input Supplys US$ 8.1 million for (i) the procurement and
sale of small, high volume inputs (hand tools, seeds, bicycles); (ii)
vehicles, materials or equipment needed to strengthen marketing
infrastructure; (iii) establishment of staff and warebouse at Mbarara
for reception and distribution of goods; (c) Rural Access Roads: US$
13.3 million for (i) a program of rehabilitation and spot repairs on
2,000 km of rural access roads; and (ii) provision of plant,
equipment, and incremental operating costs including in-service
training to MO'G to maintain the access road network; and (d) Proiect
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 1US$ 2.1 million) to enable
MOA's Project Management Unit to coordinate implementation and
administer a community development fund.
Benefits
and
7iska:    The project will increase production of food by smallholders,
resulting in increased incomes and nutrition. Reductions in transport
costs from improvements in rural access roads will reduce the costs of
inputs and consumption goods in the area, and increase producer prices
through improved access and competition in the food market. The
viability of this project depends on the maintenance of a supportive
macroeconomic environment, which includes an appropriate exchange
rate, adequate production izicentives and producer prices, the
liberalization of food crop marketing policies and a reduction in the
inflation rate. These have been agreed in the Economic Recovery
Program. Project related risks which include: (i) consumer resistance
to higher priced project inputs; (ii) delays in implementation; and
(iii) lack of motivation amongst Government staff charged with project
implementation, have been taken into consideration, and minimized, in
the design of project implementation mechanisms.



- ii -
Local   tFrein    Total
---(US$ million)------
Estimated Component Costs
Rural Access Rds Rehabilitation     4.3       6.9      11.2
Agricultural Inputs                 2.3       4.6       6.9
Adaptive Research and Extension      1.3      2.1       24
Monitoring and Evaluation           0.2       0.4       0.6
Management Support                  0.3       0.8       1.1
Baseline Cost                   8.4      14.8      23.2
Physical Contingencies              1.0       1.7       2.7
Price Contingencies                 0.5       1.0       1.5
Total Project Cost              9.9      17.5      27.4 1/
Financing Plan
IDA                                 3.6       6.4      10.0
IFAD                                4.4       7.6      12.0
SOF  21                             0.1       0.2       0.3
Government of Uganda                1.8       3.3       5.1
Total Financing                 9.9      17.5      27.4
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit (US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year             88    89    90    91    92-   93    94
Annual                      O.1   0.9   2.0   2.5    2.4   1.6   0.5
Cumulative                  0.1    1.0   3.0    5.5   7.9   9.5  10.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Economic Rate of Returns 152
Staff Appraisal Report No. 6961-UG
IBRD Map No. 20814
11   Includes US$ 3.0 million in taxes and duties.
2/   IFAD's Special Operations Facility would finance project startup
activities.



SOJTRWS? REGION AORICULTUML R=UB0LITQL=OE PROJEC
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Prolect Background
1.01     The Government of Uganda (GOU) has requested the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the International Development
Association (IDA) to help finance the Southwest Region Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project. The project, which includes the rehabilitation of
access roads, improvements in agricultural extension and research, and the
provision of agricultural inputs, would form part of a program to revitalize
agriculture in Uganda, and assist small farmers to improve their income
levels and living standards.
1.02     Project preparation was done by the Food and Agriculture
Organization Investment Centre in 1985 following an IFAD mission in 1984.
Project processing was delayed due to political changes which started in
late 1985 and continued into mid-1986. The project was preappraised in
November 1986, at which time the project scope was reduced -- rural water
supply, seeds and livestock components were not included after GOU had
obtained alternative donor assistance (paras 2.20-2.21). The preappraisal
mission also identified a number of critical economic policy issues which
needed to be resolved before appraisal could proceed. The Governamnt made
major policy changes in May 1987, which addressed the pre-appraisal
mission's concerns, and the project was appraised in May/June 1987.
B. Agriculture in the Economy
1.03     Uganda is a landlicked country of 237,000 sq km with a population
of about 15.5 million, over 90% of whom live in rural areas. The country's
economy depends on agriculture for about 65% of GDP, 99% of exports (mostly
coffee) and 93% of employment. Agricultural potential is good. Except for
a few areas in the northeast, the country has fertile soils and receives
adequate rainfall for successful crop production.   Until 1970 Uganda had
one of the strongest agricultural economies in Africa, but political
instability over much of the past 15 years has seriously disrupted the
agricultural sector and the economy. Output of all major commodities in
1980-85 was less than in 1966-70, in some cases substantially so.
Agricultural export volumes, with the exception of coffee, are well below
the level of 1966-70. Per capita food production is believed to have
declined.



- 2 -
1.04     Land under cultivation is estimated at 5.5 million hectares.
Average farm size varies considerably, ranging from 1.5 ha in the more
populated fertile areas of the southwest, to 8 or 9 ha in northern Uganda.
Most farmers have permanent user rights to the land they cultivate, although
ownership usually rests with the tribal group. Grazing land and water
sources are communally owned. In addition to food crops and livestock, cash
crops such as coffee, cotton, sugar, tea and tobacco were important in the
1960s but, except for coffee, production declined sharply during the 1970s,
and continues at a low level. Food crops such as finger millet, sorghum,
maize, bananas/plantains, cassava, sweet potatoes, beans and groundnuts,
always dominant in the farming pattern, have become even more so as cash
crops have been neglected, the economy has contracted, and the transport and
marketing system has deteriorated.
1.05     The livestock population has declined since 1978 and is now
estimated at 3.5 million cattle, 3.5 million goats, 1.8 million sheep and
0.3 million pigs. Permanent grasslands (especially in Mbarara, Bushenyi,
Moroto and Kotido), seasonal swamps, fallow areas and agricultural crop
stubbles provide grazing land. The decline In livestock numbers and
production was largely due to a breakdown of the disease control program.
This has also resulted in tsetse fly reinf-station of previously cleared
areas.
1.06     Given the near collapse of the economy and society, agricultural
production at present involves low levels of capital outlay and input use by
small and widely scattered farmers. With the limited technologies and
inputs currently available, and the largely destroyed transport and
marketing system, most farmers have moved towards a subsistence mode of
production and, except for coffee, do not produce significant surpluses
either for the domestic or export markets.
C. The National Economic Recovery Program
1.07     In May 1987, GOU introduced a National Economic Recovery Program
for the years 1987-19901/. The objectives of the Program are to: (i)
restore price stability and a sustainable balance of payments position; (ii)
substantially improve  apacity utilization in industrial and agro-processing
units; (iii) rehabilitate existing infrastructure and installed capacity;
(iv) restore producer incentives through appropriate price policies and the
use of markets; (v) restore discipline, accountability and efficiency in the
public sector; and (vi) improve public sector resource mobilization and
1/    The Program is supported by and incorporated in IDA Credit 1844-UG
(US$65 million), the African Facility Credit A-34-UG (US$24 million)
and Special Joint Financing (ODA, UK) of US$16.0 million.



allocation. As an important first step towards achieving these goals, the
Program includeds a major devaluation of the currency; currency reform and a
currency conversion tax; substantial increases in official producer prices
for cash crops (coffee, seed cotton, tobacco and tea), ELnd for exportable
food crops (beans, maize, simsim, groundnuts, soyabeans'; an increase in the
price of petroleum products; and a substantial increase in civil service
salaries. These specific actions are supported by additional measures
including the establishment of an Open General Licensing system for foreign
exchange allocations and of a credit facility for local cover for imports,
as well as the pursuance of fiscal and monetary policies consistent with the
objective of stabilization.
Agricultural Sector Strategies
1.08     The Economic Recovery Program (ERP) recognizes that restoring the
Ugandan economy depends largely on rehabilitating the previously successful
agricultural sector. In addition to political problems and economic
mismanagement, agricultural development has been adversely affected by
inefficient parastatal crop processing and marketing, by a lack of inputs
and by delays in crop payments to producers. Further disincentives arose
from low producer prices (particularly for cash crops) and an overvalued
c-urrency, reinforced by weakened agricultural support services (research,
extension), inadequate supplies of inputs and a severely deteriorated
infrastructure.
1.09     Government's agricultural development policy focusses on
smallholder production which is responsible for around 94% of output. The
polic, aims to increase food production for self-sufficiency, and to
increase and diversify agricultural exports. Agricultural development
objectives include: (i) ensuring food security and adequate nutritional
levels; (ii) increasing and diversifying the production of agricultural
export commodities; (iii) producing adequate agricult,tral raw materials fo-
domestic, agro-based industries; and (iv) increasing employment
opporturities in the agricultural sector. As part of the program for
achieving these objectives, it is intended to increase the production of the
traditional cash crops and to promote the production of non-traditional
export crops (para 1.07).
1.10     Increasing the supply of agricultural inputs, and restoring
adequate price incentives for cash and food crop, will provide the major
stimulus for increased production. The ERP commits GOU to the maintenance
of realistic producer prices with periodic revisions to take account of
trends in world prices, movements in the exchange rate and in domestic
prices, as well as changes in productivity and taxation. Projects such as
this regional rehabilitation effort will enable the productive response from
the ERP to attain its full potential. GOU will further promote agricultural
production through the provision of inputs and the rehabilitation of the
processing industry. Cooperative Unions are being strengthened and crop



- 4 -
financing will be improved through the direct provision of bank credit to
cooperatives. The operation of parastatals will also be reviewed and action
taken to improve the efficiency of operation and management of cash crop
marketing. Multichannel marketing of food crops involving private,
cooperative and public trade will be encouraged. The rehabilitation of the
transport network will play a crucial role in increasing marketable supplies
throughout the country. In the longer term, the Government is committed to
the improvement of agricultural services such as research and extension.
1.11     Agricultural production in Uganda is relatively free of Government
intervention and control. Its large subsistence and small scale sectors
operate freely, and helped avoid economic catasts-ophe during the years of
upheaval. The controls which are in effect are mostly concerned with the
marketing of key export crops through marketing boards, and in the setting
of producer prices. Prices of a few basic necessities which are in scarce
supply, namely sugar, salt and soap, are also regulated pending an easing
in the supply situation.
1.12     To provide a sound basis for the formulation of appropriate
policies, the Government, with World Bank support, organized a number of
Agricultural Task Forces which concluded their work in April 1987. Their
recommendations cover a wide range of topics including marketing,
agricultural inputs, agricultural creditt manpow¢r and training, land
tenure, and agricultural research. Some of these recommendations are
already incorporated into the ERP. Others are in the process of being
translated into policy actions.
1.13     Under the ERP producer prices are to be reviewed twice a year;
once prior to planting and a second time in the harvesting and marketing
season. Accordingly, the Government will review and, if necessary, adjust
producer prices again in consultation with IDA. To improve efficiency in
agricultural producer pricing, the methodology used in price decisions is
currently under review. The recommendation of the Agricultural Task Forces
for a revised methodology has been adopted by the ALricultural Policy
Committee, and is now under consideration by the Presidential Economic
Council. The proposed methodology incorporates the relevant price
parameters for market efficiency such as parity prices, market exchange
rates, domestic resource costs, and relative prices of competing crops.
The new methodology will also encourage the production of higher quality
products, and compel the cooperative unions and the marketing boards to
reduce their overhead costs.
1.14     The government is aware of the need for improvement in crop
financing and has recently introduced a system whereby credit is provided
directly from the commercial banks to cooperative unions with satisfactory
accounting and financial expertise. Once fully operationa., the direct
provision of bank credit to producer-owned cooperatives would improve the
efficiency in the use of credit, and would relieve the Coffee Marketing



- 5 -
Board and the Lint Marketing Board of the financial burden of supporting
the cooperative unions. In lddition, GOU is planning to establish a
monitoring and supervision unit in the Ministry of Cooperatives to assure
prompt payment to farmers. The Government will review the performance of
the system in December 1987, and, if necessary, will take measures to
accelerate its implementation.
1.15     While the level of Government intervention in agricultural
production in Uganda is substantially less than in other African countries,
especially for agricultural products consumed domestically, the marketing
of the major export crops -- coffee, cotton, tea, and five fooderops 1/t is
handled by government export monopolies which have performed poorly. The
Government's long-term objective is to gradually liberalize the marketing
and exporting arrangements for all agricultural crops. Thus,   measures are
being taken to improve the operational and financial efficiency of the
marketing boards including those for Coffee Marketing, for Lint Marketing
(cotton), and Produce Marketing (fooderops).
1.16     Uganda has the potential to produce foodcrops over and above its
domestic requirements, but restrictions on the internal movement of
fooderops have discouraged production. The Government licenses traders in
the five fooderops with export potential 1/ and allows their free movement
across districts, except in emergency situations. Licenses are liberally
issued and the licensees are free to sell to the Produce Marketing Board
(PMB) or other buyers anywhere within the country. At present, however,
certain restrictions are imposed on free movement of fooderops in certain
districts, particularly in border areas. Under the ERP, the Goverisment,
through the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing, would monitor the free
movement of foodcrops across the district lines periodically, and would
take action to remove restrictions when needed. The Government also
intends to allow private exporters to operate alongside PMB as economic
conditions improve.
1.17     T..us, the ERP and the agricultural sector policies it emwraces
provide a sound policy framework in which to promote agricultural growth.
The full benefits of these policies at the farm level will be achieved
through implementing investment and rehabilitation programs such as that
proposed for the Southwest Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project.
D. Agricultural Institutions and Support Services
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
1.18     MOA is responsible for the development and implementation of
national crop production policies and programs.  Until recently it
consisted of Departments of Agriculture and Forestry, each headed by a
1/ Maize, beans, simsim, groundn.s and soya beans.



Commissioner. The Department of Forestry was recently transferred to the
Ministry of Environment Protection. The Department of Agriculture (DOA)
consists of five sections: Research, Planning and Statistics, Development,
Production and Administration. MOA also supervises the Uganda Tea
Authority, Uganda Tea Growers' Corporation and National Sugar Works
Kinyala.
1.19     The DOA Research Section has carried out research on practically
all major crops and pastures, but efforts have concentrated on cotton
because of its former economic importance. Research has been hard hit by
the instability of the past 15 years however, and has been basically
dormant for the last decade. The Kawanda Research Station near Kampala
used to provide agricultural research services for the south and
southwestern agro-ecological zone, including the proposed project area.
Kawanda also has the main laboratories for soil research and headquarters
for the Crop Production Unit. In the proposed project area, the Kalangyere
Highland Research Substation and nine Variety Testing Centres (VTC's) are
supported by Kawanda. VTC's were established to conduct trials on crop
varieties and agronomic techniques developed at the main stations. Some
VTC's are attached to District Farm Institutes (KaOhwekano and Bushenyi)
and departmental farms (Rubare). Uganda has begun :o rehabilitate the
basic research infrastructure and provide technical and resource
assistance to some stations and programs. USAID is assisting the
rehabilitation of Kawanda and providing short-term training for research
staff.
1.20     MOA has a large extension staff, about 2,300 agents, posted at
district, county and subcounty levels.  Some 700 are university graduates.
Services are hampered by lack of confirmed technology, low salaries and
inadequate transport and operating funds. The lack of timely inputs
further restricts the effectiveness of extension. The agricultural
extension service in the project area comes under the Regional Agricultural
Officer (RAO) for the Southwest Region. Below the RAO, each of the four
districts is headed by a District Agricultural Officer (DAO) who is
assisted by disttict headquarters staff and is also responsible for junior
officers working at county and parish levels: Assistant Agricultural
Officers, Agricultural Assistants and Field Assistants. A total of 244
department staff are presently deployed in the project area.
The Ministry of Local Government (MOLG)
1.21     Rural feeder roads are the responsibility of MOLG, operating
through Uganda's 32 district administrations. In addition to the more than
21,000 km of rural roads, MOLG is alz_  responsible for primary school
education, health care (excluding hospitals), police, welfare services and
local taxation. District Administrations are granted a significant degree
of autonomy by the Central Government, which also provides most of their
financial support. Despite the years of political and economic
instability, the institutional framework within MOLG has remained virtually
intact. The framework links headquarters with districts, counties, and



parishes down to village level. Although lacking operating funds and
materials it is well provided with lines of communication, authority,
responsibility and administrative procedures and practices. Little road
maintenance has been done during the last ten years, however, and the road
network is now seriously deteriorated. While most workshop and store
structures remain, they are virtually devoid of resources. Revenues
generated at the district level from income taxes are now inadequate for
even routine road maintenance.
1.22     Government policy for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the
economy, especially the revitalization of the agricultural sector,
recognizes the importance of transport. The physical planning for
rehabilitation of the feeder road network by MOLG is underway concurrently
with the execution of work on arterial roads. MOLG has recently taken
steps to strengthen its capability for management of the feeder road
network. The roadworks function of each District Administration has been
Isolated from MOLG's other Interests and the limited road maintenance
resources of the 32 districts restructured into 12 operational units for
handling the hacklog of maintenance. Qualified engineers have been
introduced at Works Supervision level within each district. These units
will concentrate on rehabilitation of priority sections of the network
within each group of districts, using a combination of central Government
funding and external support. As rehabilitation proceeds and economic
recovery takes place, responsibility for routine (and eventually periodic)
maintenance would revert to district level and to financing from funds
raised within each district.
Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing (MCM)
1.23     MCM is responsible for implementing policies and programs
affecting the cooperative movement (under the Commissioner for
Cooperatives), for developing of marketing policies for various crops, and
for supervising crop specific marketing agencies such as the PMB (cereals,
foodcrops), the Coffee Marketing Board (processed coffee beans), and Lint
Marketing Board (cotton). The MCM has a large staff paralleling the MOA
and the Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries. MCM field staff within
the Cooperatives Department provide technical assistance and guidance to
all cooperatives, especially the unions, covering areas such as audit,
accounting, and training in administrative methods and cooperative movement
concepts. Within the Marketing Department, staff issue movement licenses
to traders and control the marketing of food and other products across
district boundaries. Staff are poorly paid and little field work is done
as there are no funds for transport, operating costs or training.
Cooperatives
1.24     The cooperative movement has dominated the internal marketing of
export crops in Uganda since independence, but is not widely involved in
production.  The cooperative movement in Uganda was regarded as one of the
strongest in Africa, but has been considtrably weakened since the late



- 8 -
1960s. There are about 3,500 registered primary cooperative societies in
Uganda, of which about 2,300 are single purpose cooperatives concerned
mainly with marketing and processing coffee and cotton. Three cooperative
unions operate in the project area. The Uganda Central Cooperative Union,
created to provide centralized support to unions and primary societies,
has not functioned effectively for some time. Its rehabilitatio. will
depend on the success of ongoing meas.res to revitalize the cooperative
movement.
Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB)
1.25     UCB, a Government owned Bank established in 1965 as a successor to
the Uganda Credit and Savings Bank, is the predominant banking institution
in Uganda. As of October 31, 1986, it had some USh 200 billion in assets,
2,600 employees and 60 branches throughout the country. With a deposit
base of USh 155 billion, it is by far the largest commercial bank in
Uganda, and accounts for over 80% of total banking activity. In addition
to general commercial banking activities, UCB engages in small scale
industrial and agricultural term lending. It is also the executing agent
for IDA's Industrial Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1248-UG) and its
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (AR? - Credit 1328-UG). UCB's record
in implementation has been reasonably good. Problems have resulted more
from macroeconomic factors or difficulties with other Government agencies.
bCB's Development Finance Division, which manages ARP, would also manage
procurement for the proposed project. This division has some 37 higher
level staff, and has developed considerable expertise in the evaluation of
long term agro-industry projects, and in international procurement and
related financial operations. UCB has eight branches in Southwest Uganda:
two each in Mbarara and Kabale, and one each in Ibanda, Bushenyi, Rukungiri
and Kisoro. Lending is short term and mainly agriculture related, most of
it for marketing, with only a minor portion going into production. Finance
for trade and small enterprises constitutes the remainder of UCB's banking
activity. The Mbarara portfolio (the largest branch in the Southwest
region) is not satisfactory with over 80% of the loans in arrears, and
repayments averaging some 20% of amounts due. The portfolios of other
branches in the region are in similar condition.
E. IFAD and Bank Group Support
1.26     IFAD's support for Ugandan agricultural development began in 1982.
IFAD identified target groups in Northeast Uganda, an area producing mainly
food crops and livestock, which had been neglected and which had suffered
drought in 1980 and 1981. IFAD's immediate strategy was to bring relief to
smallholders by supplying production inputs to quickly increase food
production.   It also became necessary to re-establish agricultural
services and address the long-term needs of agricultural development. For
this reason, IFAD's strategy also focussed on institutional support and
adaptive research to develop productivity increasing technology, and on
provision of inputs. The decentralized district administration established



before Independence is still in place but needs support to be effective.
Regional planning and development are also aupported by IFAD within a
national institutional and policy framework. In pursuance of this
strategy, IFAD will coordinate the use of its Special Resources for Sub-
Saharan Africa (used for this project) and regular program resources with
the efforts of other donors, especially IDA.
1.27     To AQte, IFAD has approved two loans for the Northeastern Region.
The first, thz Agriculture Reconstruction Program was completed in June
1986.  Financing included Loan 80-UG for SDR 16.55 million and Grant 85-UG
for SDR 875,000, effective March 30, 1982. The program made farm inputs
available to smallholders enabling them to produce food for family
consumption as well as for sale. Although completion studies have not yet
been finalized, information collected through monitoring studies and
supervision and mid-term evaluation missions indicates considerable
increases in food production in the region. A follow-on loan for the
Agricultural Development Project (ADP) became effective in May 1986. The
total cost was SDR 31.6 million, with IFAD providing SDR 14.6 million
(Loan 159-UG) and IDA a credit for US$12.0 million (Cr. 1539-UG). This
project in Northeast Uganda aims at increasing food production, improving
the health of the livestock population, and increasing fish-catch by
providing production inputs, strengthening and improving agricultural
institutions and carrying out adaptive research trials. The main problems
experienced during the implementation of these projects have been due to
political and military conflict, severe economic mis-management, and
inadequate project level management and coordination, particularly during
start-up. To alleviate start-up problems, IFAD now advocates the
employment of a Project Expediter before effectiveness, detailed advanced
planning, establishment of a Special Account to speed disbursements, and
the use of IFAD's Special Operations Facility (SOF), to finance project
start-up activities prior to loan approval. The proposed project would
incorporate these measures.
1.28     The IDA country assistance strategy for Uganda has three main
elements: (a) urgent policy reform to restore macroeconomic stability; (b)
rehabilitation of economic and social infrastructure; and (c) investments
and structural reforms to address longer-term growth objectives. Once
appropriate policy reforms are underway, emphasis would be on the
rehabilitation of the productive eectors, requisite infrastructure, and
social services with the objective of restoring the economy to a fully-
functioning level.
1.29     IDA hus provided three credits totalling US$192.5 million to
support Uganda's reconstruction efforts in 1980, 1982, and 1984. These
credits supported policy and institutional reforms, while helping meet
urgent needs for rehabilitation of the economy. Through two credits
(US$23.0 million) for technical assistance projects, in 1981 and in 1984,
the Association has supported rehabilitation of key government



- 10 -
institutions. Although small in financial terms, these projects have
provided essential strengthening of administrative and institutional
capacity, facilitated project preparation and implementation, and supported
training. Also since 1980, fourteen credits totplling US$324.6 million
have assisted rehabilitation of Uganda's infrastructure, productive
capacity and social services. In addition, Uganda also received 10 loans
from the Bank totalling US$244.8 million for the development of common
services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry)
operated regionally for the three partner states of the former East African
Community. The International Finance Corporation has also invested about
US$12.8 million in four projects in Uganda since 1983, covering industrial
finance and food production and processing (sugar and tea).
1.30     In the agriculture sector, a 1968 small-holder Tea Project with a
credit of US$ 3.4 million (Cr. 109-UG) was successful, but a 1971
smallholder Tobacco Project with a credit for US$ 4.0 million (Cr. 212-UG)
failed to achieve its objectives because of defective management, the
general decline of the economy and political instability. A Beef Ranching
Development Project with a credit for US$ 3.4 million (Cr. 130-UG) was
initially successful but the ranches established were adversely affected by
the repercussions of the 1979 conflict. The reconstruction credits during
the early 1980's financed some imported inputs and spare parts for
agriculture. Funds from other aid sources were directed to specific
activities with the result that the need for financing inputs was not
satisfied. Under the AIRP in 1983 with a credit for US$ 70 million (Credit
1328-UG), further imports of key agricultural inputs were provided; tea,
cotton, tobacco and coffee processing rehabilitated; and reforms introduced
to improve the efficiency of export marketing, development planning and
agricultural policy making. It is as yet too early to assess the effects
of these activities, but GOU ascribes what success has been achieved to
both increased availability of agricultural tools and inputs and to
improvements in producer incentives.
II. PROJECT AREA AND BENEFICIARIES
A. Area, Population and Living Standards
Area
2.01     The project area comprises the four administrative districts of
the Southwest Region: Mbarara, Bushenyi, Rukungiri and Kabale (see Annex 8
and Map IBRD No. 20814). The regional headquarters is the town of Mbarara.
The project area has common borders with Zaire to the west and Rwanda and
Tanzania to the south, and covers about 22,400 km2 including about 750 km2
of open water. The terrain ranges from rolling savannah country in
Mbarara, to high mountain ranges in Kabale. The soils vary from volcanic
over clay and clay loams with high potential, to sandy loams of moderate to



- 11 -
low fertility. Rainfall tends to increase with altitude ranging from less
than 900 mm in the lowlands of eastern Mbarara to more than 1,350 mm in the
highlands of Kabale.
Population and Living Standards
2.02     The project area population is estimated at 2.4 million,
increasing at about 2.7% annually. Population density is 110 per square
kilometer, and is highest in Kabale -- 199 per square kilometer (Annex 5,
Table 1). Of the estimated 330,000 households (average size 7 people) in
the project area over 90% are farm families settled on scattered
homesteads. Living conditions in the project area are not harsh due to the
favorable climate. Housing is of mud and wattle with thatchsd roofing,
although corrugated roofing iron is common in Kabale. Virtually no piped
or pumped rural water supply exists, water being obtained from open sources
(streams, lakes, etc.), often seve-al hundred meters over steep paths from
,he houses. School enrollment is thought to be about 50% and adult
literacy rates probably less than 30%.
Family Incomes
2.03     Almost all of the people in the project area are poor in absolute
terms and, in relative terms, earn less than one-half of the national
average. No solid data on family incomes is available. A review of tax
returns for Kabale, Mbarara and Rukungiri indicated family cash annual
incomes of around US$100 (1985). Notional incomes estimated in 1984 and
based on average production including home consumption, were around US$470
per farm in 1984. This was about 70% of the then national income average
per capita. Crop production models (Annex 6, Document A6,Tables 1-8)
estimated at appraisal in May 1987 suggest net income from food crops,
including the value of home consumption, of about USh27,000 per family
(US$430), or a per capita income from food crops of about US$60 (para
5.08). These estimates suggest total per capita incomes of less than
US$100 in the project area compared with national GNP per capita in 1984 of
US$230, and neighboring Kenya's $290 per capita (1985).
Nutrition
2.04     Despite the relative poverty, the nutritive value of family food
production is adequate to satisfy energy and vitamin requirements; total
energy intake in 1984 was calculated at around 2,700 calories and 40gm of
protein daily. The global figures do, however, hide imbalances of food and
nutrition between families and family members. Small children and pregnant
and lactating women are the most vulnerable groups.



- 12 -
B. Infrastructure
2.05     The project area, in common with many other parts of the country,
experienced extensive destruction of property during prolonged fighting in
1979 and again in 1985/86. This was accompanied by serious disruptions
which brought the economy to a state of virtual collapse. The severely
deteriorated condition of both the physical and administrative
infrastructure is a major constraint to economic recovery. Local
government and agricultural support services suffer from inadequate
operating funds and an acute shortage of vehicles and equipment. Office
and living accommodation is in poor condition. Telephone and postal
services are poor and electric power and water supplies seldom function in
the district towns, and do not exist in the smaller villages. These
problems have been exacerbated by the deterioration of government staff
morale. Restoration of the material infrastructure of government services
is not the only aspect of rehabilitation. Maintaining current staffing
levels would be counter productive due to government's inability to provide
adequate salaries and operating costs -- an issue in both research and
extension.
Roads
2.06     The entire regional road network is in need of major
rehabilitation. Mbarara, the regional capital, is linked to Kampala by 270
km of main road. From Mbarara, one branch ru.ns due west to Bushenyi,
Ishaka and northwards to Zaire. The other branch runs South West from
Mbarara some 150 km to Kabale, and provides the main link between Uganda
and Rwanda. These paved main roads in the Southwest Region, which total
about 300km, come under the aegis of the Ministry of Works, as do a further
1OOkm of gravel trunk road and about 400km of secondary roads. The trunk
road network is under rehabilitation with financing from IDA's Third and
Fourth Highway Projects (Credits 1445-UG and 1803-UG), EEC and Yugoslavia
(para 2.20).
2.07     The rural access road network in the area (2,700 km), falls under
he MOLG. The current status of regional roads is shown in Table 2.01.
.'out 20% are currently impassable year round due to broken bridges and
4ol.spsed swamp crossings, and a further 40% are only passable in the dry
seaso,'. All roads are also very rough. The exceptionally poor state of
the roads is a severe constraint on economic and agricultural activity and
on the quality of rural life. Furthermore, the poor surface causes high
vehicle operating costs and slow travel speedsl/.
1/   On the basis of the standard BI roughness scales normally used by
highway engineers (see Annex 7, Document A6, Appendix 1), it is
estimated that currently about 5% of the road length has a roughness
factor of 6,000 (reasonable for unpaved roads), 40% a roughness factor
of 8,000 (rough), 35% a roughness factor of 10,000 (very rough), and
20% a roughness factor of 12,000 or worse (normally only passable with
special vehicles).



- 13 -
Table 2.01: Status of Project Area Access Roads
Impassable      Dry Weather   All Weather     Total
Kabale                     8               163           210           381
Rukungiri                103               344           206           653
Bushenyi                 168               91            377           636
Mbarara                  300               443           269          1012
Total SW Region          579              1041          1062          2682
2.08     Public transport no longer operates in the rural areas, a fact
which limits the movement of produce, access to education, and the
availability of productive inputs. The quantity of agricultural produce
marketed, particularly of bulky foods such as potatoes and matoke which are
the main crops, is reduced, which in turn depresses farmer incomes. High
vehicle operating costs also exacerbate the problem of low government
budgets. The amount of effective travel by government officers is
restricted to only part of what would be possible if the roads were in good
condition. The negative impact of impassable and/or rough roads is most
severe on poor communities situated far from the district centers.
C. Aericulture
2.09     Smallholder mixed farming dominates land use in most of the project
area. Food crop proanction is the main activity on most farms. In parts of
the area, coffee and tea are important cash crops. Many farmers also keep
small numbers of livestock and there are specialist dairy farms near the
major towns. Cultivation is mostly by hand and most crops are grown with
minimal inputs. The area has a bimodal rainfall pattern which normally
permits double cropping in higher rainfall areas. Peaks occur in February -
May and September - December, but rain is usually heavier and more reliable
in the first period.



- 14 -
2.10     Farming systems vary but three broad patterns of cultivation can be
distinguished (Annex 8). The high altitude Southwest Montane area of Kabale
district and part of Rukungiri (Zone 1), is intensively cultivated. It
comprises about 15% of the total project area and contains about 25% of the
total population. Rainfall is highest (about 1350 mm) in this area and
double cropping is common. Much of the cultivated area comprises steep
hillsides with step contouring. More or less continuous cropping afforded
by generally well distributed rainfall throughout the year, combined with
maintenance of steps, has helped minimize soil erosion. Recently, as a
result of increasing pressure on land, there are reports of steps being
removed to free extra land for cultivation, thus increasing the risk of
eroslon. A wide range of crops is grown including maize, sorghum, finger
millet, beans, sweet potatoes and Irish potatoes. The latter crop is an
important source of family income. Although bananas are grown at elevations
up to 1800 m, they are less dominant than in other areas. On average,
farmers cultivate about 2 ha of food crops.
2.11     The central part of the region including most of Rukungiri,
Bushenyi and Western Mbarara districts (Zone 2) supports mixed cropping with
bananas as the dominant crop. This Zone covers about 57% of the project
area and contains about 65% of the population. Smaller plots of maize,
beans, groundnuts and sweet potatoes are common. The total area of food
crops per farm is similar to the Southwest Montane area, averaging about 2
ha. Coffee is widely grown as a cash crop and in north Bushenyi, tea is
also grown. Slopes are gentler and valleys wider than in the high montane
area and there is less fragmentation of land holdings.
2.12     The predominantly pastoral areas of Eastern Mbarara and part of the
North Bushenyi districts (Zone 3) cover the remaining 28% of the project
area with only about 10% of the population. Rainfall is relatively low (900
mm) and soils poor. Extensive grazing of mixed cattle, sheep and goat herds
on open rangeland is the principle farming activity. Small areas, averaging
only about 0.3 ha per farm family are cultivated with bananas, cassava,
maize, sorghum, groundnuts and sweet potatoes.
D. Agricultural Credit
2.13     Agricultural credit is channeled through UCB.  Most credit is short
term and financed from UCB's own resources. Long term credit for
rehabilitation of plant and equipment is only occasionally available through
UCB, using funds from IDA's Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (1328-UG).
The Cooperative Bank is undergoing reorganization and a department for rural
credit has been established. It sometimes serves as a chanr.1 for
distributing Government funds for predetermined items, such as the purchase
of 8 ton trucks by cooperatives. The Uganda Development Bank located in
Kampala, a source of long term credit, has not been active in the region.



- 15 -
2.14     Little agricultural credit is used for production, most of it being
destined to marketing and processing of coffee and other cash crops. Those
farmers that do receive production credit are the more financially secure
(usually dairy or other livestock). Strict collateral is required for all
loans. Even so, repayment experience has not been good. This is reflected
in the poor quality of the banks' portfolios. Interest rates
(38-42% per annum) are substantially below recent inflation rates (250
percent in 1986/87). Loan principal is not indexed or adjusted with
inflation. Consequently, the value and earning power of the bank's old
loans (over 2 years) has been considerably reduced. This problem is less
severe than it could be, as most loans to agriculture are short term, and
finance marketing operations. Funds are channeled through the Cooperative
Unions and are used for the marketing of coffee and other industrial crops.
Any problems with the transport and marketing of coffee affects the capacity
of the unions to sell their stocks, and hence their capacity to repay banks.
2.15     Two new credit lines have been approved, and will begin to be used
in the project area: The UCB's Rural Farmers' Scheme, and the Bank of
Uganda's Small Farmer Credit Guarantee Scheme. The Rural Farmers' Scheme is
aimed at providing small farmers (cropping under 2 ha) with production
inputs either in kind with UCB acting as inputs supply merchant (for small
toolst chemicals) or in cash, to cover services such as the hire of tractors
and labor. Loans would be appraised and supervised by UCB. Priority in
this scheme would be given to women farmers. Some USh 6.0 billion of UCB's
funds has been set aside for this program. Collateral (land title/lease
documents) would not be required. It would be implemented in 25 of UCB's
branches, located in areas of concentration of small farmers. Lending
activity would initially be restricted to within 25 km from the bank branch.
Within the Southwest Region, the Rural Farmers Scheme would operate from
branches in Rukungiri, Kisoro, Ibanda and the Mbarara Regional Office.
Loans would be generated by the branches and approved at the Regional Level.
Interest charged would be 15% below the standard UCB lending rate (currently
38-42%) for borrowers with collateral, and 10% below, for those without
collateral. Currently inflation rates are in the order of 250 percent per
annum, but are expected to be substantially reduced with the implementation
of the ERP.
2.16     The Credit Guarantee Scheme became effective in Southwest Uganda in
the second half of 1987. This is another line of credit aimed at providing
production inputs to small subsistence farmers, where the problem of
obtaining loan collateral is diminished by having the Bank of Uganda
guarantee 75% of the value of the loan, against a guarantee fund. A service
charge of 1% per annum is assessed to obtain the Guarantee. UCB uses its
own funds for the initial loans, to be provided on standard terms.



- 16 -
E. Marketing
2.17     Food crops in the project area are marketed either directly by the
farmers themselves in village markets, through licensed traders who normally
own transport, or through the cooperative network (either primary
cooperative societies or district unions). PMB. recently given
responsibility for nationwide purchases and export of five strategic
commodities (maize, beanst groundnuts, simsim and soya beans), is not active
in the area and only handles purchases through agents.
2.18     Produce is transported in small quantities from farms to local
markets on the heads of farmers or by bicycle. From village markets onwards
transport is generally by pick-up or truck. Although most marketing of food
crops is private, it has, in recent years, been sub.'ect to various controls.
Traders have to have licensed stores, both in buying and in selling regions,
and movement papers are required for inter-district transport of individual
loads of dry produce (maize, beans). These restrictions have disrupted food
crop marketing and made it more costly. In an attempt to restrict
"unofficial" border trade (caused largely by an overvalued local currency),
Government banned the export of food crops by private traders, which further
inhibited marketing of food crops in the Southwest Region. Under ERP (para
1.16) agricultural marketing in the project area will be liberalized and is
expected to improve rapidly.
2.19     The poor roads and the shortage of transport have resulted in high
price differentials between Kampala and the project area. For example,
matoke (bananas), sold on farm at about USh3O per bunch (US$25 per ton) in
Bushenyi, sell in the markets of Kampala at USh 150 per bunch (US$125 per
ton). These margins should reduce sharply in future as: (i) a substantial
number of new trucks have been made available to the cooperatives in the
project area; (ii) the main roads from Kampala to Mbarara, Bushenyi and
Kabale are being improved; and (iii) access roads in the area are improved
under this project. These factors should increase marketing efficiency,
reduce marketing costs, and lead to higher producer prices and lower retail
prices.
F. Other Regional Development Activities
2.20     A number of ongoing and planned development activities in the
project area are to be implemented over the next 3-5 years and are
complementary to this project. These include projects in the roads, rural
health and water supply, agriculture and livestock sectors. Rehabilitation
of the entire primary road network in the Southwest will be undertaken over
the next 3-4 years with financing from IDA, EEC and Yugoslavia. A national
training program in rural road rehabilitation and maintenance for MOLG is
being established with ILO assistance, funded by UNDP and UNCDF. In-service
training will be undertaken through the establishment of production training



- 17 -
units based at Mbarara and Kabale. A rural health and water supply project
covering the four districts of the Southwest Region will be implemented with
UNICEF and SIDA financing. The first phase of this project with financing
of about US$6.0 million, will focus on the community participation necessary
for successful operation and maintenance of these services, and will work
with local women's organizations, community groups and private non-profit
organizations to create a village structure capable of supporting local
development initiatives. This work will be supported by the work of the MOA
Home Economics Unit, financed under this project.
2.21     A number of donors are supporting seed improvement and
multiplication projects focussing on food crops. Maize, sorghum, beans,
soybean and groundnuts are included in an EEC funded project. CIAT are
supporting a bean improvement program, and a seed multiplication project for
beans, soybeans and groundnuts is to be financed by West Genmany. A Coffee
Farming Systems Development Project is planned for funding by EEC as a
follow up to the Coffee Rehabilitation Project. The proposed project will
adopt a farming systems approach and will support food crops as well as
coffee programs, an approach of special relevance in the Southwest. Ongoing
projects in the livestock sector include a UNDP funded Tsetse control
project for Southwest Uganda and the Veterinary Training and Extension
Services project. Planned projects include a UNDP/UNCDF financed Dairy
Industry Development project; a regional milk processing unit for Mbarara
and Kabale funded by UNCDF; and a Livestock Project under preparation with
IDA assistance. The proposed Livestock Project would support a national
disease control program, the improvement of veterinary services (with a
pilot area for initial implementation and testing in the Southwest Region),
and inputs and production support to dairy farmers in the SoutT.west. This
approach would complement agricultural development in the Southwest,
rounding out support for all aspects of the farming system.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Rationale
3.01     The Government has recently begun to implement its National
Economic Recovery Program and has reconfirmed the priority of the proposed
project. These actions provide the necessary framework to boost
agricultural production incentives. The proposed project aims to support
these initiatives, and maximize the productive response through focussing
specifically on further constraints faced by the small farmers in a densely
populated high potential area of the country.
3.02     At project identification in 1984 GOU and IFAD agreed that the
Southwest Region had hi6a priority. While the physical and administrative
infrastructure is severely rundown, the project area has good agricultural
potential. The population is rural, poor and consists of smallholders whose



- 18 -
main activity is food crop production. Most agricultural labour is done by
women. The Southwest is probably the most secure Region in the country and
should provide a stable environment for project development.
3.03     The proposed project is simple, and has been designed to fit into
the existing organizational structure of Government. It complements other
ongoing and planned development projects in the Southwest Pegion (paras 2.20
- 2.21). It addresses the three key constraints to smallholder production
growth: (i) the development and transfer of production technology through
adaptive research and extension; (ii) the availability of appropriate
agricultural inputs; and (iii) high transport and communication costs,
through rural road rehabilitation. Activities are confined to two
ministries. Emphasis is given to rehabilitation in each of these areas.
While it is Government policy to take a national approach to strengthening
major research activities, the project would include a modest adaptive
research and extension component focussing on food crops (previously
neglected). Supplies of imported inputs (tools, vegetable seeds, chemicals,
etc.) have been both intermittent and limited. The provision of a regular
supply of agricultural inputs under the project would remove a major
constraint to increasing smallholder food crop production. The deplorable
state of project roads, and its effect on production is discussed in paras
2.06 - 2.08. Once basic infrastructure and agricultural support services
have been brought up to acceptable standards, the Southwest Region will be
well placed to take advantage of future national projects developing
agricultural services such as research, extension or credit.
3.04     The project would support the ERP and IDA/IFAD's agricultural
strategy in Uganda by: (i) increasing food security and levels of nutrition;
(ii) improving the incomes of the rural poor; and (iii) strengthening rural
institutions. As women are responsible for virtually all farming activities
associated with food crop production they would be an important group of
beneficiaries under the project.
B. ProJect Objectives and Description
3.05     The objectives of the proposed project are to increase food
production, incomes and living standards of the small farmers in the
Southwest Region, who constitute the large majority of the population.
These goals support the broader objectives of the ERP, and would enhance the
production response obtained from the improved incentives of the national
recovery program.
3.06     The project estimated to cost US$ 27.4 million includes:
(a) Adaptive Research and Extension (US$ 3.9 million); support
for research and extension through the establishment of an
adaptive research program at selected stations with an
outreach program on farmers fields.



- 19 -
(b) Agricultural Input Supplv (US$ 8.1 million)l: procurement
and sale of (i) hand tools, seeds, bicycles, wheelbarrows,
small threshers and flour mills, and agricultural chemicals;
and (ii) vehicles, materials or equipment needed to
strengthen marketing infrastructure in the region.
(c) Rural Access Roads (US$ 13.3 million): (i) engineering and
financial support for a program of rehabilitation and spot
repairs over critical parts of the 2,000 km of the rural
access road network not receiving attention from other
agencies (US$ 8.3 million); and (ii) strengthening of MOLG's
district level road maintenance capacity (US$ 5.0 million).
(d)  Project Management. Monitoriut and Evaluation (US$ 2.1
million) to enable the Project Management Unit in MOA to
coordinate implementation, ensure project objectives are met,
and administer a small community development fund.
C. Detailed Features
Addaptive Research and Extension
3.07     An adaptive research program geared to the needs of small farmers
would be established. Emphasis would be given to the major food crops of
the region; soil conservation and soil fertility improvement would be
important aspects of this work. Research would be conducted at the
Kalengyere Research Substation and the Kachwekano DFI in Kabale district,
and Bushenyi DFI and Rubare Farm in Bushenyi district. These four sites
are representative of the major cropping zones of the project area. An
outreach program would be developed to test research recommendations on
farmers' fields.
3.08     The project would provide in-service training for agricultural
extension staff in the region. Given the severely rundown nature of
agricultural services, the inadequate research base and lack of inputs, a
phased approach to strengthening extension would be adopted. Initially, an
outreach program, linked to the adaptive research program, would be
developed within priority areas selected for their potential for increased
food production, their representation of regional cropping systems and
accessibility. The seven counties of Rubanda, Ndorwa, Rwampara, Kashari,
Igara, Shema and Rujumbura would be included in the initial phase. During
a proposed mid term review (para 4.19) feasibility of extending coverage to
the remaining fourteen counties would be decided on. Funding for this
1/    Costs given in parentheses include physical and price contingencies.



- 20 -
likely expansion is included under the project. Provision of a focussed
adaptive research program linked to outreach prnorams and staff training
would lay the foundation for the launch of a Training and Visit extension
approach on a national level. In view of the importance of women in food
crop production, support would be given to the Home Economics staff in MOA.
The regional Home Economics Units would be fully integrated into the
extension program.
3.09     Funds would be provided for the renovation of the two DFIs at
Kachwekano and Bushenyi, construction of a small office/store at Kalengyere
research substation and an office at the Rukungiri district headquarters.
A further small store would be constructed at Rubare farm and two staff
houses at Mbarara (total construction costs US$ 0.8 million). The project
would also finance vehicles and equipment (USS 0.6 million), and
incremental operating costs including training (US$ 1.6 million). To
support the development of this component, the project would provide
technical assistance in adaptive research and extension trair.ing (US$ 0.9
million). A research agronomist and an extension training specialist would
be recruited to assist in establishing and planning the adaptive research
and extension training programs.
Inputs Supply
3.10     The objective of this componant is to provide agricultural inputs
to small farmers in the region, in a timely and accessible fashion. The
project would encourage market competition by all entities (cooperatives,
unions, private traders) willing to procure and distribute inputs on
commercial terms. Some US$ 8.1 million (including $1.0 million in taxes)
would be provided for t (i) importing key production inputs needed by small
farmers (US$ 6.2 million); (ii) importing vehicles, materials or equipment
needed to strengthen marketing infrastructure in the region (US$ 0.7
million); (iii) one 1,500 sqm warehouse in Mbarara, vehicles, allowances
and equipment to handle the reception, storage and sale of inputs and
materials procured under the project (US$ 0.6 million); (iv) 36 otaff
months of technical assistance would fund an Inputs Supply Manager to set
up the wholesaling operation, and supervise its initial implementation; and
(v) ten staff months of technical assistance in project Year 3 to set up
the eventual privatization of this operation (US$ 0.6 million) (para 3.11).
3.11     Under the project, the Project Management Unit (PMU) tc be
established in Mbarara would act as a wholesale merchant for key
agricultural inputs (paas 4.06 - 4.11).  During Project Year 3, the PMU
Inputs Supply Manager would supervise a study of about five staff months to
evaluate inputs supply activities to date, and investigate the way in which
the project's input supply operation could be set up as a financially and
managerially independent operation. An additional five staff months of
technical assistance is provided to be used over the last two years of the
project to provide training and assistance as necessary to implement the
recommendations of the study.



- 21 -
Rehabilitation of Rural Access Roads
3.12     The project would undertake a program of rehabilitation and spot
repairs on the 2,000 km of Class II and III roads, which come under the
administration of MOLG and which are not scheduled for improvement under
other projects. The aim would be to provide year round access over most of
this rural road network, which would facilitate all ongoing and planned
development activities in the region.
3.13     The road rehabilitation program (US$ 8.3 million) would be
implemented by contractors obtained through ICB procurement (para 3.22),
supervised by internationally recruited consulting engineers (US$ 0.7
million). The work would take about three years, starting at the beglnning
of project year two. The definition of roads and sections to be
rehabilitated, and the standards of finish, would be determined during a
roads inventory and evaluation study undertaken by consultants as a part of
project start-up activities (para 3.17). Criteria for selection of roads
to be rehabilitated would be based on the estimated net socio-economic
benefits, and the requirements of the agricultural extension and research
aspect of the project. These would be determined by the balance between:
(i) various factors likely to contribute to potential benefits -- reduced
vehicle operating costs -- linkages with other project activities --
potential for increased agricultural output and marketing; and (ii)
engineering factors which would indicate likely unit costs of
rehabilitation of particular road sections.
3.14     The project would also support and strengthen MOLG's road
maintenance capability (US$ 5.0 million). Plant and equipment, including
mechanical workshop equipment and tools, transport facilities and
incremental operating costs, including in-service training, would be
provided for each of the four district maintenance units in the project
area. In addition to training provided under the project (para 4.13),
provision would also be made under the road rehabilitation contract to
second MOLG plant operators for limited periods for on-the-job training.
Government would sti14y district level financing to support road maintenance
and other services under its national recovery program. Assurances were
given that Government would provide sufficient funds to adequately maintain
project roads after completion of the project.
Prolect Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
3.15     The project would be managed by a PMU located in the regional MOA
headquarters in Mbarara, operating under the national and regional
interministerial coordinating committees (paras 4.01 - 4.03). Within the
component cost of US$ 2.1 million, some US $ 0.8 million would be used for
a Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E) Unit to bring together information on
project implementation and evaluate impact (paras 4.17 - 4.20). The PMU
would also administer a Community Development Fund of up to US $ 95,000 in
support of productive activities by small groups in the Project Area (Dara
4.12).



- 22 -
D. Proiect Costs
3.16        The total cost of the project  including physical and price
contingencies is estimated at US$ 27.4 million (USh 4,209 million) with a
foreign exchange component of US$ 17.5 million (USh 2,681 million) or about
64%. Project costs are summarized in Table 3.1 and detailed in Annex 3.
These cost estimates have been based on prices prevailing in mid 1987.
Table 3.1t Prolect Cost Summary
I U. Sh I 000)                            uSS o000)
- Total             I                 total
X foreign 8ase                      X Foreign Base
Local    foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs  Local foreign  Total  Exchango  Costs
,  *::    -zz   z zzz..   :::::::::  :::   ::: - =  :::::::  :=z::  --r    ".:=:e:::   ======.
A. RURAL ACCESS ROADS REHIAILIIATION    255,984.4  4)5,230.8  671,215.2  62    48 4,266.4 6,920.5 11, 186.9  62    48
b. AGRICUWTURAt INPUTS           136.690.6  278,180.2  414,870.8   67    30 2,278.2 4,636.3 6,914.5    67    30
C. D^APTIVE RESEARCH 8 EITENSION  77, 111.7  124.531.2  201.643.0  62    14 1,285.2 2,075.5 3,330 7    62    14
O. NIOITORING 8 EVALUATION        12. 501.4  26.691.2  39, 192.6  68      3  208.4  444.9  653.2       68      3
E. WANAGENENT SUPPORT             18.603.2  48. 304.0  66,907.3    72     5   310.i  805. 1 1. 115. 1  72     5
Total BASEILME COSTS               500,891.4  892.937.5 1.393.828.9  84   100 8,348 2 14,882.3 23.230 5  64   100
Physical Continwnc,es            61,735.6  100,401.7  162,137.3  62    12 1,028.9 1.673 4 2,702.3     62    12
Pries Cont inv  ies             971 548.0 1. 681, 490. 0 2, 653, 038. 0  63   190  547. 3  922.8 1. 470. 0  63  6
Total PROJECT COSTS              1.534,175.0 2.674.829.1 4.209,004.1  64   302 9,924.4 17.478 4 27,402 8  64   118
Physical contingencies of 15% have been provided for civil works and 10% on
all other items except agricultural inputs for resale which are essentially
of a program nature and quantities estimated are only indicative. Physical
contingencies total some 12% of baseline costs. Price contingencies for
both foreign and local costs have been based on expected increases in world
prices. Over the five-year-project period these average just under 3% per
year, and amount in aggregate to 6% of base costs. Included within the US$
27.4 million project Losts is an estimated US$ 3.0 million of direct and
indirect taxes. These include direct import duty and sales tax on
agricultural inputs purchased for resale (US$ 1.0 million); indirect taxes
on fuel and parts which are included within vehicle operating costs (US$
0.8 million); and indirect taxes on civil works and operating costs which
would be levied on fuel, parts and other imported items used by contractors
(US $1.2 million). Vehicles and equipment imported directly for use by the
project are assumed to enter Uganda tax free.



- 23 -
E. Start-up Activities
3.17     To speed up implementation, a number of activities need to be
completed prior to commencement of the project. These include: (i) The
preparation of plans and specifications for buildings to be constructed or
renovated under the project; (ii) the renovation of the proposed project
office; (iii) the procurement of vehicles and equipment recessary for
project management; (iv) the initiation of documentation for procurement of
buildings, vehicles, equipment and agricultural inputs to be provided
during the first year of the project; (v) the preparation of a detailed
roads inventory and bidding documents to form a basis for contracting out
the road rehabilitation component; and (vi) finalizing terms of reference
for consultants to be hired under the project and arranging for consulting
contracts to be let. The estimated costs of these pre-project activities
are summarized in Table 3.2 and detailed in Annex 3, Table 8 for 1987/88.
A Project %xpediter (technical assistance) would be retained for 4 months
to assist, in completing these tasks. It is envisaged that these pre-
project activities would be fmnded by an IFAD SOF Grant of about US$0.3
MillioIL.
Table 3.2: Start Up Activities Cost
........... ........ (SS'000) ........^
Local     Foreign       Total             %
Renovation of Project Office        33         22            55            20
Vehicles and Spares                  1         32            33             12
Office Equipment                     1           7            8              3
Vehicles Operating Costs             4           5            9              3
Miscellaneous Operating Costs        3           1            4              2
Technical Assistance                16         145          161            60
Total Base Cost                     58        212           270            100
Physical Contingencies               7         23            30             11
Price Contingencies                  3          10           13             5
Total Cost                          68        245           313            116
==,==                                  ,



- 24 -
F. Financing
3.18     The US$ 27.4 million project cost would be financed by a US$ 0.3
million SOF Grant from IFAD, a US$ 12.0 million equivalent loan from the
IFAD Special Programme for Sub-Saharan African Countries Affected by
Drought and Desertification, a US$ 10 million equivalent IDA credit and US$
5.1 million from Government contributions including US$ 3.0 million in
taxes (Table 3.3). IFAD/IDA would thus be funding 80% of the total project
costs. This amounts to 100% of the foreign exchange cost plus about 50% of
the local costs excluding direct taxes.
Table 3.3: Financing Plan
US$ Million    SDR Millionl/    Percentages
IFAD - SOF                 0.3              0.2               1
IFAD Loan                 12.0              9.1             44
IDA Credit                10.0              7.6             36
Government!l               5.1              3.9              19
27.4            20.8            100%
1/  Based on an Exchange Rate of US$ 1.00 = SDR 1.32109
2/ Includes US$ 3.0 million in taxes
3.19     The Government has severe budgetary constraints.  In order to
ensure adequate financing for the initial years of this project, donor
funding would cover 50% of local costs (para 3.26). Assurances were also
obtained that the Government would include the project recurrent cost
funding requirements into its recurrent budget, ensuring that sufficient
funds would indeed be forthcoming after the project implementation period
had finished. Although not earmarked specifically for this project, local
cost funding should be available within the development budget from the
proceeds of input sales under the IFAD/IDA funded Agricultural Development
Project (Loan No. 159-UGlCredit 1539-UG), and subsequently from revenues
derived from inputs sales under this Project. Indeed, the direct net impact
of the project on Government finances is estimated to be slightly positive
as the expected receipts from the resale of agricultural inputs are
projected to exceed the total Government contribution to the project by
about US$ 1 million. Assurances were provided that adequate local funding
would be made available for project activities.



_ 25 -
G. Procurement
3.20     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4:
Table 3.4:  Proposed Procurement Method
(US$ Millions)
Proiect Element         ICB        LCB      Other      Total      Foreign (%)
Civil Works (Roads)        7.6(6.1)   -          -         7.6            51
Civil Works (Other)        -          1.6(1.0)  -          1.6            38
Vehicles                   2.3(2.3)   0.2(0.2)  -          2.5            95
Equipment                  0.3(0.3)   0.3(0.3)  -          0.6            88
Agricultural Inputs        4.0(3.5)   2.0(1.8)  0.9(0.7)  6.9             67
Technical Assistance                             3.3(3.3)  3.3            97
Recurrent Costs                                  4.9(2.5)  4.9            46
Total (IDA/IFAD)          14.2(12.2)  4.1(3.3)  9.1(6.5) 27.4(22.0)       64
_0  Figures in parentheses refer to IDA/IFAD financed procurement.
3.21     Under the agreed financing arrangements the IDA credit would
finance civil works, vehicles and equipment. The agricultural inputs,
technical assistance and training, and operating costs would be funded from
the IFAD loan (para 3.26). As the IFAD loan would come from the Special
Programme for Sub-Saharan African Countries Affected by Drought and
Desertification, procurement for the items financed by IFAD would be
restricted to those industrialized countries that are signatories and
contributors in good standing to the above program, and developing
countries. IDA guidelines would be adhered to in the procurement of goods
and services, with the countries eligible to bid on IFAD financed contracts
adjusted as described above. All project procurement would be coordinated
by the Inputs Supply Manager (para 4.03).
3.22     Civil works (apart from rural roads) are small-scale and scattered
through the project area. They would be unlikely to appeal to
international contractors. These civil works contracts would therefore be
grouped to the extent possible and awarded according to local competitive
bidding procedures. As local bidding procedures are not as yet fully
satisfactory, bidding documentation would be reviewed by IDA/IFAD prior to
invitation, and bid evaluations and award recommendations reviewed prior to
award of contract. The country has adequate local contracting capability.
Civil works for repair/rehabilitation of rural access roads would be let as
one contract under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in
accordance with IDA Guidelines. Vehicles and equipment would be bulked to
the extent possible into packages of US $ 200,000 or more, and procured
under ICB procedures.



- 26 -
3.23     Agricultural inputs and construction materials would be bulked, to
the extent possible, into packages of US$ 200,000 or more and procured
under ICB procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines, with country
eligibility restricted as indicated in para 3.21 above. Qualifying
domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15%
of the bid c.i.f. price or the actual customs and duties and import taxes,
whichever was less. Contracts for goods valued at less than US $200,000
but more than US $50,000, would be awarded either according to ICB
procedures for goods not available locally, or on the basis of the
competitive bidding procedures, using the review procedures specified in
para 3.22 above. Purchases of less than US $ 50,000, and of certain
specialized items, including seed (available in Kenya) and equipment with
only one or two known suppliers, and some spare parts, would be procured
according to negotiated contract, or prudent shopping procedures up to a
maximum of US $ 1 million worth of goods.  Procurement would be staggered
through the project period and demand for previously purchased goods would
be assessed by MOA before further orders are placed. Items procured as
agricultural inputs would be taken from an agreed positive list (Para
4.08). As local production and supply capacity for certain products is
developed (hoes, pangas and small tools) the positive list could be revised
to exclude them from priority import needs.
3.24     Inevitably, given the wide variety of items to be procured, the
total number of packages is considerable (Table 3.5). Approximately 28
contracts are expected under ICB accounting for over 78% by value of
purchase of goods and civil works. With a threshold of US$ 0.20 million,
procurement documents for about 12 packages would be reviewed by IDA,
covering 61% of contract value. Except for local competitive bidding
packages of over $50,000 for civil works, where prior review will be
necessary, the balance of contracts would be subject to selective post-
awara review.
Table 3.5: Procurement Profile of Value and Number of Contracts
(US$ Millions)
Estimated                    Estimated No.      Contract    2 Total Value
Size US$1/                   of Contracts         Value    Above Threshold
Above 500,000                   11                7.9              42%
200,000 to 500,000              11                3.5              19%
100,000 to 200,000              23                6.3              -
0 to 100,000                    15                1.1              -
Total                           50               18.8              61X
1/ Includes civil works contracts; excludes technical assistance.
3.25     Internationally recruited consultants would be selected in
accordance with IDA Guidelines with country eligibility restricted as
indicated in para 3.21.   Assurances were also obtained that consultant
terms of reference, qualifications, terms and conditions of employment
would be satisfactory to 1DA/IFAD and GOU.



- 27 -
H. Disbursements
3.26     The IFAD loan of US$ 12.0 million and the IDA credit of US$ 10.0
million would be disbursed over seven years (Annex 1). Although shorter
than the average period for agriculture projects in East Africa, seven
years is considered more than adequate for this operation, as : (i) it will
be implemented in the most stable and secure area of the country, reducing
the possibility of civil disturbances; and (ii) the use of large ICB
contracts for roads (to be let in one contract), road maintenance equipment
(one contract), and agricultural inputs (large annual contracts), all of
which account for some 78 % of project costs, will speed disbursement.
Disbursements would be as indicated in Table 3.6. IDA would disburse
against expenditures for categories I and II (Civil Works, Vehicles and
Equipment), and IFAD would disburse against expenditures in categories III,
IV and V (Inputs, Operating Costs and Consultant Services). Disbursements
would be against full documentation, except for disbursements for operating
costs, including allowances for Government agencies, and for civil works
and goods contracts of less than US $ 20,000 equivalent, which would be
against statements of expenditure. The Closing Date for this project would
be June 30, 1994.  Should IFAD/IDA suspend disbursements on its loan/credit
for this project, the other donor could at its discretion also suspend
disbursements.
Table 3.6: Disbursements Schedule
Total Disbursed   IDA   IFAD   % of Expendituxe
US$ Million   Credit  Loan        Financed
Category I - Civil Works
Road Rehabilitation                 5.08        5.08                  80
Other Civil Works                   0.76        0.76      -           60
Category II - Vehicles & Equipment                                 100 of foreign
Vehicles and Equipment              2.80         2.80     -       50 of local
Category III - Inputs for Resale                                   100 of foreign
Goods                               4.83           -    4.83      50 of local
Procurement Charges                 0.38           -    0.38          100
Category IV - Operating Costs
Vehicle Operating Costs             1.40           -    1.40          50
Other Operating Costs               0.64           -    0.64          50
Category V - Consultant Services
Studies & Training                  2.67           -    2.67          100
Category VI - Unallocated              3.45         1.36   2.08
TOTAL                               22.00        10.00  12.00
===.     ===== ~=====



- 28 -
Special Account
3.27     In order to expedite the flow of funds for disbursement of minor
amounts for each of the financing agencies, two Special Accounts would be
established by the Bank of Uganda in favour of the PMU in a commercial bank
or banks acceptable to IDA and IFAD. The total value of each Account would
be US$ 400,000 equivalent for IDA and US$ 500,000 equivalent for IPAD.
Expenditures under all categories would be eligible for reimbursement.
Assurances were given that the Special Accounts would be established prior
to credit and loan effectiveness and operated as described.
I. Accounts and Audits
3.28     The PMU would open and administer a project account for project-
related activities. The Project Financial Controller (technical
assistance) and the Senior Accountant would be responsible for maintaining
accounts related to the procurement and use of goods; and for accounts of
project related expenditures in MOA. Project expenditures in MOLG would be
accounted for by the accounts department (Projects Section) of MOLG. The
Development Finance Division at UCB would open and maintain a project
account to cover project related inputs supply procurement activities. It
was agreed that (i) records would be kept permitting identification of all
receipts and payments under the project and monitoring of program
implementation. These records would be made available to IDA/IFAD on
request; (ii) project accounts at MOA, MOLG and UCB, the Special Account
and the Southwest Development Revolving Fund, would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA/IFAD, and certified copies of the
auditor's opinion, and of the relevant financial statements would be made
available to IDA/IFAD no more than six months after the end of the
Financial Year; (ii) a separate audit opinion would be provided on records
and accounts used to support disbursements against statements of
expenditure; (iv) the Financial Controller with qualifications and
experience acceptable to GOU and IDA/IFAD and the Senior Accountant would
be appointed and in post by September 30, 1988 (para 4.03).
Southwest Development Revolving Fund
3.29     Revenue from sales of agricultural inputs procured under the
project (financed by IFAD) would be deposited in a special account at the
nearest branch of the Uganda Commercial Bank for onward transmission to an
account in the Bank of Uganda set up specifically for this Fund. These
funds would be used to support the Government's rural development program,
in consultation with IFAD.



- 29 -
J. Women's Role
3.30     Traditionally, women are responsible for the cultivation of food
crops, and men for cash crops. Food crop production is the predominant
farming activity in the project area and it is the women who do most of the
farm work. In addition, a woman's daily workload includes the collection
of water and fuel. wood, the preparation of food and the care of children.
3.31     In the past women have had less access than men to farm inputs and
technology, while the predominantly male extension force has not adequately
catered to the extension needs of women. Under the project, women would be
fully integrated in development planning and would have equal access to all
the services the project provides. The Home Economics Unit of MOA would be
supported by the project in its work with rural women. Women's groups
would purchase project inputs (possibly using local credit sources (para
2.15)) for retail or use in productive endeavours. Women will also be
major beneficiaries under the UNICEF/SIDA rural health and water supply
project (para 2.20). It was agreed that, in order to promote the full
participation of women in productive activities, the PMU shall take all
measures necessary to ensure that, by December 31, 1991: (i) at least 10 %
of the contact farmers working with the extension service are women; (ii)
training programs are put in place to raise the number of farm level
extension workers to at least 10%; (iii) the content of the Home Economics
Program is relevant and useful to the needs of women; and (iv) that gender
questions are included in the evaluation criteria in the various studies to
be undertaken from time to time by the monitoring and evaluation team. The
impact of the project on women would be assessed during the mid-term
evaluation of the project (para 4.19).
K. Environmental Impact
3.32     The project is expected to have no adverse effects on the
environment. Present farming practices involve very little use of inputs.
Intensive cultivation, particularly in areas of high population density is
resulting in declining soil fertility and there is evidence of increasing
soil erosion. Adaptive research, extension training and outreach programs
would contribute to improving the environment through the introduction of
improved crop husbandry methods, including appropriate soil conservation
piactices and the judicious use of fertilizers and agrochemicals. No
fertilizers or chemicals that may have an adverse effect on the environment
would be purchased under the project. Assurances were given that the
selection, procurement and use of pesticides by the project would be
undertaken according to guidelines acceptable to IDA/IFAD. The rural
access road rehabilitation component would be generally beneficial to the
environment. No new roads would be constructed, rather roads which in some
cases now act as storm water runoffs would be rehabilitated with proper
road side drainage. Erosion would thus be reduced.



- 30 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01     Project implementation would be coordinated through an Inter-
ministerial Coordinating Committee (ICC) at the center, and a Regional
Coordinating Committee (RCC) in the project area. The ICC would be chaired
by the Permanent Secretary for MOA and would include representatives from
the ministries of Local Government, Agriculture, Planning and Economic
Development, Finance, Cooperatives and Marketing, and the Bank of Uganda
and Uganda Commercial Bank. A project liaison officer would be appointed
in MOA who would serve as secretary to ICC. A Project Coordinator, who
would be appointed by MOA and head the PMU would also be a member. The
Committee would meet quarterly and would have responsibility for approving
annual workplans and budgets, reviewing annual progress reports, approving
major procurement contracts, reviewing annual accounts and audit reports,
deciding on policy issues and approving overseas training.
4.02     The RCC would be chaired by the Project Coordinator and would
include the Rnional Engineer (MOLG), the MOA Regional Agricultural
Officer, the Regional UCB officer, the Regional MCM officer. The Regional
Evaluation Officer, who would head the Project M & E Unit, would serve as
secretary. Other staff concerned with project implementation would be
included on invitation. The committee would meet monthly. Meetings would
be held at the four district headquarters in rotation. RCC would prepare
the annual workplan and budget, facilitate the implementation of project
activities, coordinate with other projects in the region, prepare requests
to MOF for funding on a quarterly basis, and prepare and review quarterly
progress reports for submission to ICC. The establishment of these two
committees and appointment of the Project Liaison Officer, the Project
Coordinator and the Regional Evaluation Officer under terms of reference
and with qualifications satisfactory to GOU and IDA/IFAD, is a condition
of credit/loan effectiveness.
B. Executing Agencies
4.03     Primary responsibility for project execution would be with the
Ministries of Agriculture and Local Government, strengthened where
necessary.   As far as possible existing institutional arrangements have
been maintained. In keeping with the Government's objectives of
decentralization, project management would be delegated to regional and
district staff. A PMU would be established at MOA's Regional headquarters
in Mbarara. The PMU would be headed by the Project Coordinator and would
include the Regional Agricultural Officer, the Regio:-al Evaluation Officer
and the M & E Unit (paras 4.17-4.18), the Inputs Supply Team (para 4.06),
the Senior Accountant and financial and administrative staff, and four
technical assistance staff: the Inputs Supply Manager, the Financial



- 31 -
Controller and the Agricultural Research and Extension Training
Specialists. These four specialists would be internationally recruited.
During negotiations, assurances would be sought that the PMU as described
would be established, the local staff appointed, the reassignment of staff
to the M&E Unit completed (para 4.18) and the technical assistance staff
recruited by September 30, 1988.
Adaptive Research and Extension
4.04     The MOA Chief Research Officer would have overall responsibility
for project related agricultural research. Technical support and
supervision of adaptive research would be provided by staff of the Kawanda
Research Station and annual research work programs would be reviewed at
Kawanda before submission to MOA's National Research Committee for
approval. Direct responsibility for the identification, detailed planning
and establishment of adaptive research programns would be with the
consultant research agronomist and the local counterpart working closely
with district extension staff. 1csearch tailored to farmers needs would be
developed on the Kachwekano and Bushenyi DFI's, and on the Kalengyere
Research Substation and Rubare Farm. Subsequently, an outreach program to
test research recommendations on farmers fields, would be introduced which
would involve field extension staff in selected areas and establish
linkages between research and extension.
4.05     The RAO, under the direction of the Deputy Commissioner for
Production, would continue to have overall responsibility for extension
services in the project area. Extension services at the district level
would continue to be administered by the DAOs assisted by the consultant
extension training specialist and the local counterpart. Organization and
management of extension training courses would be the responsibility of the
Principals of the Kachwekano and Bushenyi DFIs, who would receive
administrative supervision from the DAO's at Kabale and Bushenyi. The
consultant training specialist would assist in the design and management of
the required training courses.
Procurement, Pricing and Sales of Inputs
4.06     The PMU would survey the market, and place orders for agricultural
inputs through UCB. It would take delivery of the inputs and materials,
store, re-package where necessary, and sell to area retailers who would
include cooperatives and other groups. A reserve price, and minimum and
maximum purchase requirements would be established (para 4.08). The inputs
supply team in Mbarara would be headed by (i) an Inputs Supply Manager
(technical assistance) and would also include; (ii) a Deputy Inputs Supply
Manager, who would take over management of the team as the technical
assistance staff phases out in Year three; (tii) a Warehouse Manager; and
(iv) guards and laborers. In order to get inputs supply activities under-
way with the initiation of the project, a first purchase of about US$ 1.0
million worth of key equipment, tools and chemicals would be made during



- 32 -
the first year. It was areed that the consultant Input Supply Manager
satisfactory to be GOU and IDAIIFAD, would be employed, and the Deputy
Input Supply Manager and Warehouse Manager appointed and in post by
September 30. 1988.
4.07     Procurement of inputs would be coordinated by the Input Supply
Manager. The actual sourcing and purchasing of goods would be done by
UCB's Procurement Department within the Development Finance Division. This
department currently handles procurement under the IDA, EEC, USAID,
Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (Cr. 1328-UG). UCB has considerabie
expertise in this area, and is well placed to make the financial and other
arrangements necessary to ensure safe arrival of goods in Mbarara. It is
expected that one large tender would be completed each year, using ICB
procedures. Other purchases are expected to use local competitive bidding
or prudent shopping procedures. UCB would hire a qualified international
procurement agency on a short term basis to assist with the ICB tenders.
The international procurement agency would be better placed to: (i) ensure
correct and adequate product specifications; (ii) evaluate the firms
submitting bids; and (iii) conduct the technical/engineering evaluation of
the competing products. The international procurement agency would be
hired on approval of the PMU under terms of reference satisfactory to
IDAIIFAD. It was agreed that the fee for the international agency would be
paid by MOA.
4.08     In order to provide agricultural inputs to small farmers in the
project area in a tinely and accessible fashion, PMU shall encourage free
market participation by all entities engaged in wholesale and retail trade
in such inputs. Agricultural inputs procured under the project shall be
sold on a cash basis at wholesale market prices to (i) traders, cooperative
unions and societies licenced to operate in the four districts of the
project area, and (ii) farmer groups from the Southwest. It was agreed
that the Inputs Supply Manager and his team within the PMU would submit to
IDA/IFAD a satisfactory proposal on the management of the sale of inputs
under the project. Alternatives presented under this propcsal would
include, amongst others, (i) the sale of inputs at market wholesale prices
set by the PMU after a survey of similar prices in the project area, and
taking into consideration the purchase prices evaluated at the market
exchange rate and cost of handling and transport; and (ii) the sale of
selected inputs through a pilot auction system. The proposal would also,
for each alternative, cover amongst other things, the minimum and maximum
amounts to be sold to a given purchaser, the periodicity of price review,
the methodology for price determination, and for the pilot auction system,
the criteria for selection of the goods to be auctioned, the periodicity of
the auction, and the setting of reserve prices. The various pricing
systems in use t7 the project during the first two years would be evaluated
in a study to be undertaken by the Inputs Supply Manager and his team in
the PMU, and completed and sent to IDA/IFAD for comment by December 31,
1989. Recommendations would be made on the pricing method to be adopted
subsequently by the project, after agreement by IDA/IFAD.   It was agreed
that the goods to be procured and sold by the project would be: (i) hoes,
pangas, hand tools for small farmer cultivation, wheelbarrows, bicycles,
motorcycles, ox ploughs, carts and animal drawn equipment, small mills and



- 33 -
small scale agro-processing equipment, agricultural chemicals, including
fertilizers, pesticides and insecticides, improved seed, workshop equipment
and spare parts, fencing materials and tools, packaging materials,
equipment and materials to support crop storage and marketing; and (ii)
storage construction materials and equipment and vehicles for cooperative
unions and societies, farmers groups, and produce and inputs traders to
support the development of agricultural inputs and crop marketing services
up to US$ 700,000 equivalent. Furthermore, it was agreed that the prices
of agricultural inputs across the country, including those charged by the
project, would be monitored by the Agricultural Secretariat which would
submit a report for IDA/IFAD review and comment by December 31 of each
year. The financial aspects of the wholesale operation would be supervised
by the pro4ect Financial Controller, who would be charged with setting up
the necessary accounting system, and supervising its operation along with
the Input Supply Manager.
4.09     The study on the future input supply management (para 3.11) would
be conducted by consultants appointed not later than June 30, 1990, under
terms of reference agreeable to GOU and IDA/IFAD. The study would be
completed by December 31, 1990. GOU and IDA/IFAD would review the findings
and recommendations arising from this study and, within six months of its
completion, PMU would initiate the transfer of its inputs supply operation
to the agreed new agents to commence operation under the supervision of the
PMU. GOU would ensure that the necessary foreign exchange requirements
would be made available to the procurement agent or agencies for the
importation of inputs to meet recurrent requirements. Assurances to this
effect were provided during negotiations.
4.10     Any trader licenced for the Southwest, cooperative society or
group headquarted in the Project Area, with sufficient funds for the
minimum amount could purchase project agricultural inputs. Community or
women's groups created under the sponsorship of this or other projects
would be eligible. Such a group could if necessary obtain funds from UCB
under one of the new agricultural credit schemes to finance their initial
purchases of inputs. Demand for project sponsored inputs is expected to be
quite high, as the goods are of relatively low value (e.g. a hoe costs US$
2.50, three days wages or five bunches of bananas at farmgate prices).
Goods which have been in demand under the ADP project in Northwest Uganda
would be purchased initially. Although inputs have been available in the
past in the region at subsidized prices, which could undercut project
sales, this is no longer expected to be a problem, due to the realignment
of the exchange rate under the economic recovery program.
4.11     UCB would operate under the terms of an Agency Agreement.  An
outline of this agreement can be found in Annex 6, Document A2. The PMU
would pay UCB a fee of 7% on the CIF Mbarara cost of goods procured, which
approximates the fee UCB receives for administering procurement for ARP
(Cr. 1328-UG). A rough estimate of the costs of running such an operation
shows that a fee of this magnitude would be adequate (Annex 6, Document A2,
Appendix 3). The contents of this Agency Agreement are described in Annex
6, Document A2, Appendix 2. Assurances were given at negotiations that



- 34 -
this Agency Agreement would be signed by September 30. 1988 under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA/IFAD. It was agreed that signature of a
satisfactory agreement is a condition for disbursement of funds by IFAD for
purchase of agricultural inputs.
Community Development Fund
4.12     The PMU shall be responsible for the administration of a Community
Development Fund of US $ 95,000, designed to support the formation of
farmer's groups, women's groups and primary cooperative societies in the
Project Area. Applications for funds would have to be sponsored by MOA's
Extension Service, or Home Economics Service, or other Government agencies
such as MCM and the Department of Community Development of MOLG, or by
private, non-profit voluntary organizations. Applications for assistance
would be sumbmitted to the PMU and would contain a statement of the group's
objectives, membership, management team and activities to be funded by the
project. The activities to be funded should be productive, provide
additional employment and should include, inter alia, the marketing of
agricultural inputs or agricultural products, the processing of
agricultural commodities and the production of agricultural inputs. The
fund could be used to cover: (i) initial operating costs, supplies and
allowances; (ii) renovation of buildings for use by the group; and (iii)
courses and training programs for the group run by the sponsoring
institution. Not more than US $ 3,000 equivalent would be disbursed to any
one group. Assurances to this effect were given at negotiations.
Rehabilitation of Rural Access Roads
4.13     Rehabilitation works would be done by contractors selected through
ICB procedures and supervised by consulting engineers (also selected under
IDA/IFAD guidelines for recruitment of consultants) in conjunction with the
Regional Engineer MOLG and the District Works Superintendents. During the
pre-contract start-up period, a detailed road inventory would be prepared
by consulting engineers from which details of the work to be completed by
contractors would be prepared. The supervising consulting engineers would
provide a project engineer, two assistant engineers and a mechanical
superintendent. The project engineer would be based at Mbarara and, in
conjunction with the Regional Engineer MOLG, would report to the Project
Coordinator. The assistant engineer would be attached to the contractors
work units and would supervise daily progress. The mechanical
superintendent would assist with the operation and also maintenance of
equipment to be provided under the project, and would also provide in-
service training to MOLG staff. Road maintenance would be under the
direction of the Regional Engineer MOLG, and, at the district level, would
be under the District Work Superintendent. In addition to training
provided under the project, MOLG staff would benefit from training to be
provided under the UNDP/UNCDF financed road rehabilitation and maintenance
project (para 2.20).  Terms of reference for the detailed road inventory
are listed in Annex 6, Document A3 of the Project File.



- 35 -
C. Training and Technical Assistance
4.14     Most of the field extension staff in MOA have had little or no
access to technical training since completion of their certificate, diploma
or degree courses. Under the project, all regional extension staff would
receive refresher training in crop husbandry, extension methodology and
communication techniques. This would be followed by further training for
field staff involved in the phased development of the outreach program
including staff of MOA's Home Economics Unit dealing with women groups.
Farmer training would mostly be by means of on-farm demonstrations and
field days, but special training courses for selected group leaders would
be provided. Training funds would be provided for selected research and
extension staff to complete appropriate short courses or study tours
outside Uganda.
4.15     Internationally recruited technical assistance would be provided
for the positions of Adaptive Research Agronomist, Extension and Training
Specialist, Inputs Supply Manager, and Financial Controller. Additional
short term consultancies would be provided during the pre-project start-up
period, for a Project Expoditer, preparation of a building design contract,
and a rural roads inventory.
4.16     Virtually all technical assistance staff would be involved in
training and funds have been provided for training counterpart staff to
enable them to take over project responsibilities when consultancies have
ended. All long term technical assistance would be phased out in project
year four. The drait terms of reference for the technical assistance
personnel are given in Annex 6, Document A7.
D. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.17     The project would esc.ablish an M&E Unit at the project
headquarters in Mbarara. The Unit would design and institute a monitoring
system involving periodic reporting of selected key indicators of project
performance. These indicators would be compared to physical and financial
targets set annually In a work plan and budget. All project agencies and
ministries involved in project implementation would be responsible for
submitting the required information on a quarterly, seasonal and annual
basis to the M&E Unit. The RCC would approve the annual work plans,
budgets and progress reports, and submit to ICC for review and approval to
ICC. It was agreed that annual work programs would be submitted to
IDA/IFAD for review and comment before April 1 each year. The first annual
work plan, including an initial assessment of goods to be imported, would
be submitted to IDA/IFAD as a condition of loan/credit effectiveness.



- 36 -
4.18     In preparing the annual work program, care would be taken to
ensure that the methodology of other M&E units already established in
Uganda should, where appropriate, be followed. The M&E Unit at MOA
headquarters at Entebbe, which is being strengthened under the IFAD/IDA
financed ADP (para 1.27), would provide a coordinating role in this
respect. The project M&E Unit would be staffed by MOA personnel currently
in the Region. The incremental cost of the M&E component is estimated at
US$0.8 million. This includes a provision of 24 staff-months of technical
assistance in the form of periodic visits during each year, and the
necessary vehicles and field and office equipment for the survey program.
A suitably qualified candidate will be appointed as the Project Evaluation
Officer as a condition of loan/credit effectiveness (para 4.02), and
reassignment of required field staff from the existing cadre of extension
and statistical personnel to the M&E Unit will be completed by September
30, 1988 (para 4.03). The position of Project Evaluation Officer would be
upgraded to Regional Evaluation Officer by June 30, 1989.
4.19     Impact evaluation would be measured against a baseline survey of
small farming households, repeated at the mid-term, final year and post-
project stages. Smallholder income levels would be monitored in these
various studies. Additionally, a series of small scale studies would be
conducted throughout the project on selected target areas and communities.
Assurances were given that the M&E Unit would, under the supervision of the
MOA Planning Division, prepare a mid-term review of project progress and
impact including the identification of implementation constraints and
recommendations for project modification or change, not later than December
31, 1990. The mid-term review would be prepared in accordance with terms
of reference agreed with IDAIIFAD. The GOU mid-term review report would be
presented to IDA/IFAD for review. GOU and IDA/IFAD would then conduct a
joint field review of project progress to determine the changes required to
improve project impact during the remainder of the implementation period.
4.20     GOU, through the ICC and RCC would prepare and send to IDA/IFAD
semi-annual reports outlining (inter alia) the progress with project
implementation (both financial and physical), to the extent possiblet the
impact of project activities on the target beneficiaries, and special
issues which may arise during project implementation. The semi-annual
progress reports would compare actual progress with that proposed in the
annual work program and budget. Progress reports would be sent to IDA/IFAD
within two months of the end of the reporting period. The first report
would be sent to IDA/IFAD by December 31, 1988. Within six months of
completing the project, GOU would provide a project completion report in
accordance with an outline agreed by GOU and IDA/IFAD, which would cover
all aspects of the project including an estimate of project impact on the
living standards of the beneficiaries and on the economy of both the
Southwest Region and the country as a whole. Assurances were given that
the above reporting procedures would be implemented.



- 37 -
E. Implementation Schedule
4.21     An indicative implementation schedule is appended as Annex 7.
Project start up would occur under SOF financing during 1987/88. The lead
time for procurement of civil works, vehicles and equipment is based on
recent experience on IDA/IFAD financed projects in Uganda. The Project
Completion date would be December 31, 1993.
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Smallholder Production
5.01     This project fits within a much largen array of economic
activities, policy adjustments and other projects expected to improve
smallholder food and cash crop production in Uganda and in the Southwest
Region. Crop production in the project area is expected to increase as
farmers respond to improved security and sharply improve1 producer
incentives as a result of economic policy changes made by the Government in
May 1987 (para 1.07).  As a result of improvements in access roads, the
strengthening of the extension and adaptive research services, and the
increases in supply of agricultural inputs, an additional production
response from smallholders in the Southwest would be achieved. Most of the
production increases are likely to occur in Zones 1 and 2, which have bigh
productive potential both in terms of yields which could be achieved on
individual crops and also the range of crops which can be produced. A much
lower impact would be expected in Zone 3, which is likely to remain a food
deficit area for the foreseeable future.
5.02     No impact on production is expected before project year two.
Theregfter, introduction of improved planting materials and management
techniques should have a rapid impact on production on farms in direct
contact with the extension service and through spin-offs to the farming
community at large. Improved availability of inputs, largely tools and
equipment to facilitate cultivation should also increase opportunities for
improved husbandry ptactices and hence greater production from existing
varieties (Annex 6, Document A5).
5.03     Estimated areas under food crops and average production figures by
farm are detailed in Annex 6, Document A6, Tables 3 - 5. On average food
crop production on farms which participate fully in the project is likely
to increase by about 302 in 5 years. Assuming that 10% of farms in Zones 1
and 2, and 22 of those in Zone 3 participate fully in the project by the
end of year five, the aggregate increase in food production due to adaptive
research and extension at full development is likely to be about 3%. The
greatest potential for yield increases per unit area are likely to come
from potatoes (with fertilizer), maize and sorghum. Because of the large
proportion of the area under the crop, the biggest physical increase in



- 38 -
production would be from bananas. Table 5.01 summarizes the expected
incremental food crop production from the adaptive research and extension
components (details given in Annex 6. Document A6).
Table 5.01t Incremental Production
Incremental Production at
Full Development (tons)
Bananas                                          71,913
Cereals                                          6,197
Peas/Beans /Groundnuts                              819
Potatoes                                         2,759
Other Root Crops                                 5,061
5.04     In addition to incremental production from the relatively small
portion of farms benefiting directly from adaptive research and extension,
agricultural production would also increase as a result of the project
because ofs (i) increased use of agricultural inputs; and (ii) an expansion
of areas planted and the proportion of the crop marketed resulting from
better accessibility and reduced transport costs. A rough estimate of this
impact would be an additional 2 - 5% by the time of full project
development.
B. Marketing of Prolect Output
5.05     Most incremental food crop production in the project area would be
marketed through traditional markets in the private sector. As many of the
food crops, particularly potatoes, bananas and other root crops are bulky,
the improvements in road transportation and the reduction of haulage costs
by about US$0.05/ton km for trucks and about US$0.20/ton km for pick-ups
will help to improve farmgate prices. This will be particularly important
for those products such as bananas which are sold outside the area.
5.06     Present farmgate prices for main food crops are set out below in
Table 5.02:
Table 5.02: Farm Gate Prices
USh/Kg          US$/Ton
Bananas                          1.5              25
Potatoes                         9                150
Maize                           10                167
Beans                           15               250
Sweet Potatoes                   5                83
These prices are reasonable and, on the basis of current exchange rates,
are well above export parity prices but below import parity prices.



- 39 -
5.07     Incremental project output should be easily marketed as the
anticipated growth in demand for food in the project area is substantially
larger than the incremental food production due to the project. Local
demand for food is expected grow at about the same rate as population
growth i.e. about 2% p.a. Over 9 years therefore, the local demand for
food would have grown by about 20% whereas production due to specifically
identifiable project components is likely to increase output by about 3%
due to adaptive research, and 2 - 5% due to improved roads and incremental
inputs. Furthermore, if Government carries through with its policy of
deregulating the market and relaxing trade regulations, increased
opportunities for both inter provincial trade and project area exports to
Zaire, Rwanda and Tanzania should occur. These will be particularly
important for regional specialty crops such as potatoes from Kabale or
bananas from Bushenyi. With strong demand and marketing improvements there
is every likelihood that producer prices in the project area will increase
at the farmgate.
C. Financial Viability of Smallholder Production
5.08     The estimated total annual value of food crop production per farm
is about US$ 520 for farms in Zone 1, US$ 500 for farms in Zone 2 and US$
50 for farms in Zone 3. After 5 years these figures are estimated to
increase to US$ 670 for Zone 1, US$ 620 for Zone 2 and US$ 55 for Zone 3.
Details of production, consumption, sales, costs and labor inputs for these
farms are given in Annex 6, Document A6, Tables 3 to 8 and summarized
below.
Table 5.03: Typical Characteristics of Food Crop Production on
Farms on which the Prolect has a Direct Impact
Zone 1   Zone 2   Zone 3
Area of Food Crops (ha)                         1.95       2.12     0.33
Gross Value of Food Crops
"Without Project"        US$        520        500       50
"With Project"        US$         670        620       55
Net Income (incl. consumption)   USh '000    23          28         3
"Without Project"        US$        380        470       50
Net Income (inel. consumption)   USh '000    33          34         3
"With Project"        US$         550       570        50
Incremental Net Cash Flow         USh '000      6.6       5.0       0.2
From Food Crops          US$        110         83



- 40 -
5.09     Within Zones 1 and 2, farm family members consume an average of
about 2,000 calories per capita from their own output and show net cash
flows of US$150 and US$233 per annum respectively from food crops. Out of
these cash incomes they buy additional foods. As a result o'. the project,
the net cash flow after consuming the same amount of food wotld increase by
about US$110 for Zone 1 farms and US$83 for Zone 2 farms.  *) achieve this,
some incremental labor would be required. It is estimated tnat the
incremental output per incremental labor day is about US$2.67 for farms in
Zone 1 and US$2.08 for farms in Zone 2. These figures are both
substantially larger than the present wage rate of about US$0.83 per day.
Food crop production in Zone 3 however, is marginal and returns to
incremental labor are relatively unattractive. For this reason it is
unlikely that a significant increase in food crop production will take
place in Zone 3 except in special situations.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISK
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.01     Only quantifiable benefits attributable to this project are
considered in this section and in Document A6 of Annex 6; i.e. the likely
impact on agricultural production of the adaptive research and extension
component (a relatively small part of project costs), the cost reducing
effects of improving the rural access road systems (a large part of project
costs), and the impact of agricultural inputs. In the case of this
project, benefits are likely to be larger than those that have been
quantified. The basic objective of the project is to re-establish
functioning systems of agricultural production, marketing and input supply
in an area where these have been largely destroyed or are currently
inoperative, and where, as a consequence, individual farmers are reverting
to a largely self-protective, subsistence system. Of still greater
significance will be the economic policy adjustments the Government
undertook in May 1987, which were a precondition for this and other
projects. These adjustments reestablish a viable exchange rate and open
the door to a return to an open marketing system. These two changer. should
have a dramatic effect, stimulating agricultural production and trade i'n
the project area and in Uganda as a whole. The returns to this prcject
will be additional to the production response to the National Economic
Recovery Program.
6.02     Most of the 270,000 farm families in Zones 1 and 2 of the project
area would benefit directly or indirectly from the improved supply of
inputs. The majority of these farmers are smallholders who cultivate food
crops as a main activity, and fall within IFAD's target group. They have
been regular buyers of tools, vegetable seeds and, to a lesser extent,
agro-chemicals. The increased availability of inputs, the improved



- 41 -
distribution system, and the improved road system which would be brought
about by the project, can be expected to reduce the cost of distribution
and introduce competition in the local market, thereby reducing the
possibility of other suppliers charging monopolistic prices.
6.03     Virtually all of the 2.4 million people (340,000 families) in the
project area can be expected to benefit from the rehabilitation of rural
access roads. Opening up the 20% of roads in the Region which are at
present impassable and making the 40% of Regional roads currently
impassable during the wet season passable year round, will increase the
possibIlities for communications and trade and facilitate the delivery of
government and social services. Secondly, reducing the roughness of roads,
and therefore lowering vehicle operating costs by about one third on
average, should lead to increased transportation services at lower cost.
These would include (i) the re-introduction of rural buses in some areas;
(ii) increased goods transport and better marketing services (hence higher
farm gate prices), and (iii) greater availability of government services.
The improvements in rural roads will also help expedite other projects
which are presently planned, or ongoing in the Region. They would be of
particular value in supporting the Rural Health and Water Project planned
by UNICEF and the animal health and marketing aspects of the proposed
Livestock project.
6.05     The numbers benefiting directly from the adaptive research and
extension component would be limited initially, because of the components'
phased implementation and because not all farmers are likely to be adopters
of improved practices. Furthermore, and the major reason for the
relatively small size of this component and the modest assumptions
regarding its Impact, is the abaence of readily available technologies that
can be expected to sharply improve crop yields in the area. The main
techniques to be introduced at first are essentially improved cultivation
practices, supported by the input component, which is largely hand tools
and related equipment. The mission estimate is that about 20,000 farmers,
or 6.1% of the farm population, would benefit directly from the adaptive
research and improved extension during the life of the project (paragraphs
5.01 - 5.07). Most (over 95%) of these would be in Zones 1 and 2, which
are the main food producing areas of the region.
B. Economic Analysis
6.06     The cost benefit calculation for this project is not done in the
traditional way, by aggregating all costs and benefits, and providing an
overall rate of return. Rather, each of the three main components is
analyzed separately, and it is shown that, under a series of minimal
assumptions, which are highly likely to be met, an economic rate of return
of at least 15% will be obtained. If the conditions are better than those
posited in these minimal assumptions, i.e. if the farmer adoption rate is
greater than 7% in the high potential zones, or if the average traffic on
project roads is over 10 vehicles per day, then the rate of return will be



- 42 -
higher than 15%. Further information on the economic analysis for the
various components is given below. Road rehabilitation and maintenance
account for about 48% of project costs, adaptive research and extension for
14% and agricultural inputs some 30% of project costs. The remaining 8%
are for monitoring and evaluation and management support.
6.07     Most of the benefits from road rehabilitation and maintenance will
come from (i) increased marketing of agricultural produce; (ii) increased
supplies of inputs; (iii) increased public transport; and (iv) time saved
and lower vehicle operating costs on generated traffic. Because of the low
present traffic volumes in the area, savings on existing traffic are likely
to be relatively small, whereas the savings on the expected rapid increas
in traffic generated by this and other projects, by improved security and
by economic policy improvements, is likely to be large.
6.08     Rather than estimate an internal rate of return to the rural road
component, an estimate is made of the future average daily traffic volumes
which would be required to provide the project with an internal rate of at
least 15% from time saved and reduced vehicle operating costs. Detailed
calculations of unit cost savings for different types of vehicles have been
made and are presented in Annex 6. Document A6, Tables 11 and 12.
6.09     Provided daily traffic volumes are equivalent to 2 buses, 2 medium
goods vehicles, 3 light goods vehicles and 3 4WD vehicles, very modest
assumptions, the roads component would show an internal rate of return of
15% (Annex 4, Table 3). This does not take into account the benefits from
motorcycles, bicycles, easier foot passage, improved services, increased
trade or higher marketed agricultural output. Given the fairly low overall
road density in the area, 1 km of all types of road per 700 people (or per
6 kmi2) it is quite likely that these traffic volumes would be achieved on
the rural network. Thus this component is likely to show a good economic
rate of return.
6.10     To estimate the economic returns to adaptive research and
extension and the increased availability of inputs, potential improvements
from typical farms in each of the zones taking up the project inputs and
participating in the applied researchlextension program have been estimates
and are set out in Annex 6. Document A6. In making economic estimates of
net project benefits from this component, the financial costs of operating
it have been adjusted for taxes, and the economic value of farm labor has
been assessed at half of the present rural wage rate i.e. at USh 251day.
No conversion factor has been applied to food cro! prices as they are
presently between import and export parity levels_/.
1/   Although the Ugandan currency is probably still overvalued at USh 60
per US dollar (which would indicate economic prices of food crops below
their financial prices) this is considered to be offset by the
impedlm-nts which presently exist to local food exports which depress
present prices at the farm level.



- 43 -
6.11     For the applied research/extension component to show an internal
rate of return of 15%, about 7% of the farmers in Zones 1 and 2 would need
to participate by year 5 (Annex 4. Table 1). Overall, this would mean an
increase of food production in the project area of about 2% by year 5,
equivalent to a growth rate of 0.2% per annum. This increase would be over
and above the growth expected to result from the ERP. Agricultural
production has at best been stagnant over the past ten years.
6.12     It is estimated that a somewhat higher rate of growth of about 3%
p.a. will occur by full development. This can be expected as the rundown
nature of agriculture in the area becomes revitalized, farmers become able
to use hitherto unavailable tools, seeds and chemicals. Response will also
be good in view of the suitable soils and rainfall, and the good
possibilities for improving agricultural production through improved
techniques.
6.13     The type of agricultural inputs to be provided under the project
are well known by farmers and are largely those that facilitate traditional
cultivation -- hoes, pangas etc. They will be supplied to farmers at market
prices. Consequently they are only likely to be purchased by
farmers if they perceive a good financial or social return. Most of these
inputs are annual inputs or have a short life. Normally, farmers expect a
benefit cost ratio of around 2:1 before they are prepared to purchase annual
inputs, which would equate to a rate of return of about 100%. There is
every indication that farmers are prepared to take up the inputs that are to
be supplied under the projec
C. Risks
6.14     Agricultural inputs imported under the proposed project would be
sold at market prices, which would be higher than for some albeit limited
supplies of subsidized inputs previously available through various donor
supported programs. Some sales resistance may therefore be expected until
farmers realize that subsidized supplies are no longer available, and that
the prices obtained for their produce are much higher than formerly. There
is a risk that this resistance would hamper project implementation by
causing stock build up of unsold items. The level of risk is slight
however, and unavoidable in the process of re-establishing trade on a
normal, commercial basis. Under the project, the initial supply of inputs
would be restricted to known high demand items. Subsequently, the PMU would
assess the demand for goods and regulate suppLies to prevent unsold items
accumulating in the project warehouse. There remains some risk that inputs
would be sold either in other regions or outside the country, because of
continued exchange rate distortions. However, this risk would be minimized
by the Government's new pricing and exchange rate policy and, in addition,
the distribution and sale of goods in the project area would be constantly
monitored to ensure that inputs were used locally.



- 44 -
6.15     There is a risk of possible delays in delivery of project items to
Uganda, and a delay in the implementation of the project. The proposed
implementation procedures and organization and management structure of the
project would minimize this risk. For the procurement of recurrent imports,
the project would benefit from UCB's experience under ARP (Cr. 1328-UG) and
UCB would in turn be assisted by an international procurement agent.
Procurement and disbursement for the rehabilitation of rural roads should be
rapid since this would be the responsibility of the contractor for which
penalties would result from delays.
6.16     Low salaries and GOU's failure to pay expenses and allowances have
caused a general lack of commitment and low morale in staff of all
ministries. GOU has rec* .'ly increased salaries and allowances and under
the project this problem would be reduced further by the provision of
transport and other facilities and the prompt payment of travel and
transport allowances. Better working conditions, regular payment of
allowances and clearly defined work programs are expected to provide
sufficient incentives to improve staff productivity and to raise staff
morale.
6.i7    Most of the incremental food crop production anticipated under the
project would be sold to meet increasing lo.al demand, with some portion
traded internationally (Para 5.07).  There is a risk that Government
intervention in marketing would continue and act as a disincentive to
farmers to increase production. However, Government's policy tc encourage
multichannel marketing (para. 1.16), the supervision of agricultural prices
and marketing policy in the context of the Economic Recovery Credit, and the
Government's expressed strong political commitment to the project would
significantly reduce this risk.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED
General Conditions
7.01     It was agreed at negotiations thats
(a) the Government would provide sufficient local funds to support
project execution (para 3.19), and to adequately maintain
project roads after completion of the project (para 3.14).
Project recurrent costs would be included in the recurrent
budget (para 3.19);
(b) procurement would be undertaken according to the procedures
outlined in paras 3.21-3.23. Goods to be procured under the
inputs supply component will be from an agreed positive list
(para 3.23. 4.08); no agricultural chemicals with an adverse
effect on the environment would be purchased, and guidelines
acceptable to IDA would be followed in the procurement of
pesticides (para 3.32);



- 45 -
(c) internationally recruited staff would be selected in
accordance with IDA Guidelines on the "Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" with country eligibility adjusted (para 3.25);
(d) financial and physical records would be maintained as set
forth in para 3.28, and that the project accounts in MOA,
MOLG, UCB, and the Special Accounts and the Southwest
Development Revolving Fund would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA/IFAD. Certified copies of the
audit reports would be provided to IDA/IFAD not more than 6
months after the end of the Financial Year.
(e)  revenue from sales of project inputs would be deposited in the
Southwest Development Revolving Fund and used to support the
Government's rural development program in consultation with
IFAD (para 3.29);
(f) the international procurement agency to assist UCB would be
hired under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA/IFAD and
its fee would be paid by MOA (para 4.07);
(g) agricultural inputs would be sold by the project using pricing
and sale procedures (which would include a pilot auction
scheme) to be determined by study and trial as outlined in
para 4.08;
(h) the Agricultural Secretariat would monitor input prices and
submit a report to IDA/IFAD by December 31 of each year (para
4.08);
(i) subsequent to study, transfer of project input procurement and
distribution operations and facilities to agents acceptable to
IDA and IFAD be initiated, and that sufficient foreign
exchange be made available for the recurrent importation of
agricultural inputs once the project disbursement period had
finalized (para 4.09);
(j) that the PMU administer a Community Development Fund along
agreed lines, with a maximum of US $ 3,000 equivalent going to
any one group (para 4.12);
Dated Covenants
7.02     It was agreed at negotiations that:
(a) by September 30, 1988, (i) the PMU have been constituted, (ii)
local staff had been reassigned from extension and statistical
services to the M & E Unit, (iii) other local staff be
appointed and in place, including the Deputy Inputs Supply
Manager, the Warehouse Manager, and the Senior



- 46 -
Accountant, and (iv) the internationally recruited Financial
Controller, Inputs Supply Manager, Agricultural Research
Specialist, and Extension Training Specialist be appointed and
ir. place under terms of reference, and with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA/IFAD (paras 3.28, 4.03, 4.06,
4.18);
(b) a proposal on the pricing and sale of agricultural inputs have
been provided to IDA and IFAD by September 30, 1988, for
review and approval prior to the initiation of sales, (para
4.08)f
(c) UCB and MOA have signed an Agency Agreement acceptable to and
IDA/IFAD covering inputs procurement responsibilities by
September 30, 1988 (para 4.11);
(d) the PMU and the Agricultural Secretariat would submit a study
evaluating the inputs sale systems, and recommend on the
system to be used in subsequent years by December 31, 1989
(para 4.08);
(e) (i) by June 30, 1990, PMU would appoint consultants to
undertake a study on the future management and privatization
of the inputs supply component, to be submitted to IDA/IFAD
for review and comment by December 31, 1990; and (ii) that
transfer of input procurement and distribution operations and
facilities to agents acceptable to IDA/IFAD be initiated prior
to June 30, 1991 (para 4.09);
(f) by December 31, 1991, training programs be instituted to
ensure a minimum 10% participation of women in the extension
service; that at least 10% of contact farmers are women; that
the Home Economics Program reflect women's needs; and that
gender questions be included in project monitoring (para 3.31)
(g) annual workplans be submitted to IDA/IFAD for review before
April 1 of each year (para 4.17);
(h) the midterm review be undertaken using terms of reference
acceptable to IDA/IFAD, and that the final report be provided
to IDA/IFAD for comment and review not later than December 31,
1990 (para 4.19); and
(i) semi-annual progress reports be sent to IDAIIFAD within twc
months of the end of the reporting period. The first report
would be sent by December 31, 1988. Within six months of
completing the project, GOU would provide IDA/IFAD with a
project completion report prepared in accordance with agreed
terms of reference (para 4.20).



- 47 -
Conditions of Loan/Credit Effectiveness
7.03     It is a condition of Loan/Credit effectiveness that:
(a) the Government establish two Special Accounts in a commercial
bank acceptable to IDA and IFAD, and operate them under agreed
procedures (para 3.27);
(b) the Government (i) establish the Interministerial Coordinating
Committee and the Regional Coordinating Committee, and (ii)
appoint and have in place the Project Liaison Officer, the
Project Coordinator and the Project Evaluation Officer under
terms of reference satisfactory to GOU, IDA and IFAD (para
4.02); and
(c) The Government have submitted a work plan for the first year
of the project satisfactory to IDA/IFAD (para 4.17);
Condition of Disbursement
7.04     It was agreed at negotiations that the signature of the Agency
Agreement between MOA and UCB satisfactory to IDAIIFAD would be a condition
for disbursement of funds from Category I of the IFAD loan, to be used for
the purchase of agricultural inputs (para 4.11);
7.05     With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit SDR 7.6 million (US$ 10.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



- 48 -
UGANDA                       Annex 1
SOUTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US $ miliIons)
IDA      Quarter                 Quarterly
Flscal Year  Ending                Disbursements  1/2/          Cumulative
__________    ----------   ----------------------------------------
Total     IDA       IFAD       IDA      IFAD
1988    September  1987         -         -        -          -
December   1987       0.1      0.0       0.1       0.0       0.1
March       1988      0.1      0.0       0.1       0.0       0.2
June       1988       0.3      0.1       0.2       0.1       0.4
1989    September  1988       0.4      0.1       0.3       0.2       0.7
December   1988       0.4      0.1       0.3       0.3       1.0
March       1989      1.1      0.3       0.8       0.6       1.8
June       1989       0.9      0.4       0.5       1.0       2.3
1990    September  1989       0.9      0.4       0.5        1.4      2.8
D-ecember   1989      1.0      0.5       0.5       1.9       3.3
March       1990      1.5      0.5       1.0       2.4       4.3
June       1990       1.1      0.6       0.5       3.0       4.8
1991    September  1990       1.2      0.6       0.6       3.6       5.4
December   1990       1.2      0.6       0.6       4.2       6.0
March      1991       1.7      0.7       1.0       4.9       7.0
June       1991       1.1      0.6       0.5       5.5       7.5
1992    September  1991       1.1      0.6       0.5       6.1       8.0
December   1991       1.1      0.6       0.5       6.7       8.5
March      1992       1.4      0.6       0.8       7.3       9.3
June       1992       1.1      0.6      0.5        7.9       9.8
1993    September  1992       0.9      0.5       0.4       8.4      10.2
December   1992       0.9      0.5       0.4       8.9      10.6
March      1993       0.7      0.3       0.4       9.2      11.0
June       1993       0.6      0.3      0.3        9.5      11.3
1994    September  1993       0.4      0.2       0.2       9.7      11.5
December 3/1993       0.3      0.1       0.2       9.8      11.7
March       1994      0.3      0.1       0.2       9.9      11.9
June     4/1994       0.2      0.1      0.1       10.0      12.0
1/  IDA  : CategorIes I and 11 (Clvil Works, Vehicles and Equipment).
2/ IFAD : Categories III, IV and V (inputs, Operating Costs and
Consultant Services.
3/ Project CompletIon Date: December 31, 1993.
4/  Project Closing Date:  June 30, 1994.



- 49 -
Annex 2
UGANDA
SOUTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Inflation and Exchange Rate Assumptions
1987-88  1988-89  1989-90  1990-91  1991-92  1992-83
International
Inflation (X)               2.0      1.0       1.0      2.3       3.5      3.5
Domestic
Inflation (Z)              87.4     24.3      14.4     10.0      10.0     10.0
Constant Purchasing
Parity Exchange Rate       85.4    123.0    144.7    159.5    170.5    181.2



- so -
Annex 3
Table 1
UGANDA
SOUTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABIlITATION PROJECT
SUINARY ACCOUNTS COSt SUIMARY
I U.Sh '000)                                        1US$ '0001
I Total                                       I Total
% Foreign  Base                               S Foreign  Base
Local      Foreign     Total      Exchange   Costs    Local  foreign   Total   Exchange   Costs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIlt ORKS                     232.929. 6   222. 158.4  455. 088.0       49       33  3,882 2  3.702.6  7. 584.8        49      33
B. VENICLES                          6. 669.2   126,713.9   133.383. 0       95       10    111.2  2,111.9  2.223. 1        95      10
C. EQUIPMENT                         4.225.5    29.775.5    34.000.9         88        2     70.4    496.3   566.7          88       2
0. AGRICULTURE INPUTS              117.348.0  237.732.0   355.080.0          67       25  1,955.8  3.962.2  5.918.0         67      25
-- - - - -    ----  -- -   -- - - - -   -- - - -   -- - -  -----  --- ---   ------.. ....   ..   .....   .  .  ...- .......    ........... . 
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                361.172.2   616.379.7   977,551.9         63       70  6,019.5 10,273 0 16.292.5         63      70
Physical Contingencies              47,763.7    12,745.9   120,509.6         60        9    796.1  1,212.4  2.008.5         60       9
Price Contingencies                672,007.9 1. 136. 127.0 1.808, 134.9      63      130    351.3    593.7    945.1         63       4
----- - -_   -- - - - -   -- - - - -   -- - - -   -- - -  . ..  ...  -- -- -   -- -- -   -- -  --   .----.-.-.-
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES       1.080.943.8 1.825.252.6 2.906, 196.4        63     209  7. 166.9 12.079.2 19.246. 1        63      83
zvz==z:5z=:          S: :      :      :       :: :::
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATING COSTS - VEHICLES      71, 174.4   103,728.9   174,903.4        59       13  1,186.2  1.728.8  2,915.1        S9       13
8. OTHER OPERATING COSTS           21,697.2     9,298.8    30,996.0         30       2    361.6    155.0    516.6          30       2
C. SALARY AND ALLOWANCE            41,477.5           -    41,477.5          -       3    691.3              691.3                  3
0. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             5,370.0   163,530.0   168,900.0         97       12     89.5  2.725.5  2,815.0        97       12
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 139,719.2   276,557.8   416,276.9         66      30  2.328.1 4.609.3  6,937.9           66      30
Physical Contingencies              13,971.9    27.655.8    41,627.7         66       3    232.9    460.9    693.8          66       3
Price Contingencies                299,540.1  545,363.0   844.903.1          65      61    195.9    329.0    524.9         63        2
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES         453,231.2   849.575.5 1.302,807.1         65      93  2.757.4  5.399.3 8, 156.7          66      35
mn::s:t ::::::::: :s::::::_: ::::::::: ::-:::::  ::sr.ss s::::::::::   ::::   :::
Total BASELINE COSTS                   500,891.4   892,937.5 1.393,828.9         64      100  8.348.2 14,882.3 23,230.5         64     100
Physical Contingencies               61,735.6   100.401.?   162,137.3         62       12  1,028.9  1.673.4  2.702.3        62       12
Price Contingencies                 971,548.0 1,681,490.0 2.653.038.0         63      190    547.3    922.8  1,470.0        63        6
total PROJECT COSTS                  1,534.175.0 2,674,829. 1 4.209.004. 1       64     302  9,924.4 17.478.4 27,402.8          64     118
Oecember 2. 1987  19:04



- 51-
Annex 3
Table 2(a)
UGANDA
SOUTHWEST REGION AGRICUIIURAL REHABILITATIOIN PROJCTl
ptoj.ct Components by ?.ar
Totals Incliadutg Contingencies                                          Totals Inc l.dulg Contt.rgwclaa
I U. Sh I 0001                                                            1US   0001
87/88      88/89       89/90        90/91       91/92      92/93      total        87/88  88/89   89/90   90/S1   91/92   92/93   total
s,a::.:.:s::s.s~ ~.............. ..   ...n:     .....5:tSZ  *:: ...... S:::... .. SS:5;,          ...:2   ...::  ::::.-::t   2:.
111RA41 ACCESS ROADS RENA8ItITAkiON              800.0   8689394.3   708.551.0 408.S87.5 210. 138.81 2.083.051.6                   010.4 4.6519. 6 4.442. 02. 3981,1 t. t9. 4 13. 328.?
tGIicuTfuRAL INPUTS                            -194.930.9   211. 3?8.8   289.338.1I 283,238. 2 322,511.2 1.271. 391.9             1.584.9 1,480.9 1.828, 8 1.8660.9 1.779.8  8S.112. 0
iDAPIivE RESEARCH 8 EXTENSIoN                    1 I0. 113. 3   102. 142.3   099270.4  87.6883.4  98,932.1  57 7.112 0          -. 5,45.7   708.0   822. 3   8140   834. 8  3,922. 9
IONITOAIING 8 EVAOLUATION                      -37. 129.5    14.388. I    16. 137. 3  17, 781. 1  27.592.8   112. 198. 9        - 301.9    99.4   101. 2   104. I   182.? 2       78.8
IANAfANENT SUPPORT                     25.347 7  87,290.9    25. 1M. 4    29,1i1.7  16.797.4  il1,782.6   168.482.7  2969S   488.8   1713.9   182.8    S$ 4    84.9  1.282 4
PROJECT GOSis                         28.343.7 588. 474.8 1.021. 453.7  1. 112, 400.5 814, 387.8 6866,938,0 4,209. 004.1I  2981.92 4.8608.? 7. 089. 8 6,973. 9 4. 778.86 3,8690. 927,402 &
1:::.4-X.........32 .. 2;2 $22      .........t t.n.t.:: .-=    :t:- ::.: ... .......f?  if::a  .::. Z                         :Z--s:;.tz::::
Annex 3
Table 2(b)
SOUTHWEST REGION AGRICUtTURAL RENASItITATtON PROJECT
Sumsmar'y Accounts by Test
rotals Including Cont ingencies                                         totals Including Cont ngoncties
I U.Sli I000)                                                             (US$ '0001
87/88      88/89       89/90        90/91       91/92      92/93       Total       87/818  88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   Total
INVESTIIENT COSTS
A. CIVIt WORKS                      5,453.4 248,848.8   404, 180.71  464,818.2 224, 288 I   1, 401.7? I. 48.6688 7   63.9 2.023.3 2,793.5 2, 912.1 1, 318.    1   7 I9,118 8
8. VEHICLES                         3. 129. 8  88, 880.85   192,688.8   113. 203.? 7                       388.899. 7   38.7   480.0 1, 331. 8   709.7                     2.538 1
C. EQUIMUNT                           711. 3  28,889.8    88,488.4        S. 318.8                          8 8.386. I    8.3   218. 5   383.5    33.3                       843.6
0. AGAICULIURE INPUTS                      -138, 214. 8   178, 322. 7   219,020.8 281,848.8 308. 141 I 1. 103.544 9         - 1, 107.8 51,232.85 1, 373.1 1.536 8 1.700 268.948 7
aI INVESTMENT COSTS                 9,294.8 488,813.7   830. 878. 7   802.088,9 488, 110 9 309,542 7 2.9208. 198.4  108.9 3, 809,3.3 1.41, 2 5.028.2 2,880 8 1.707 9 19. 248. I
RECUJRRENT COSTS
A. 0009*11NG COSTS   UtVHICIEs       808 I  18.2988A    63, 941 4   120,708 4 166. 181 6 204.477 4   b74.385 7    928    14886   441.9   188?7  974 31 ,128 2  3. 4898 
B. OTHER OPERATING costs                0.0   6.408 8    16,233.8    20.960 2  24,884 8  30,387 2    98,884 1    0 0    82 I   11? 2   131 4   145 2   167 6                6809.2
C. SAlARY AND AttONANCI                0. 0   4.988 9    15, 673 3    28, 373.9  40, 140 2  80, 364 4   136. 8 17 I    0 0    40,4   108 3   159. 1   238 4   277 9    821. 0
0  TECHNICAL ASSISIANCE           18,241.1  68.281 7    94.929 7   143. 308 2  97. 100 3  74. 186 2   493.050 2  178 8   888.2   688 I   898.4   869 4   409 3  3,267 0
at RECURRENI COSTS                 16. 049 2  97, 960. 9    190. 778 0   310. 347 6 328. 276 7 3591. 398 3 I. 402,80?71  188 0   798 5 1,318 6 1.948 6 1. 923. 0 1.983 0  8.188 7
I PROJECT COSTS                    25. 343 7 568. 474 8 1.021.483 7 1, 112.406 5 814. 387 6 668938 0 4.209.004 I  296 9 4,608 7 7.089 8 6.973 9 4.778 6 3.060 9 27. 402 8
2. -;  -..- . .     . .     . . . .     . . .. .  . . . ..                      . .z                                4. .
.                             .........                                                                                     .............                                                                                                



- 52 -
Annex 3
Table 3
UGANDA
SOUTHlEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
S.iry Account by Project Conent
I U. Sh I 000)
Physica l
RURAL ACCESS                   ADAPTIVE                                           Contingmncies
ROADS       AGRICULTURAL  RESEARCH a  NONITORING 8  MANAGEMENT 
REHABILITATION     INPUTS      EXTENSION    EVALUATION    SUPPORT       Total       2    Amunt
xu:n:::::.:::  23333323323:  :::3:::2::  :n22::::2:3:  2222232322  :::::::::::  :::: 222222332
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. CIVIL NOMES                        378. 000.0     20. 148.0    42,840.0              -    14. 100.0    455,088.0  15.0  68.263.2
B. VEHICLES                           103, 980.0       1, 629. 0    22, 650.0    3, 144. 0    1.980. 0    133. 383.0  10.0  13.338.3
C. EQtIIPE4                            It7 073. 1            -    9.446.4        2,081.4      5. 400.0    34. 000. 9  10.0   3.400. 1
P. ASRICILTUtRE INPUTS                        -     355.080. 0           -              -                355.080.0  10. 0  35,508. 0
Total INVEST4ENt COSTS                   499.053.1     376,857.0    74,936.4        5. 225.4    21,480.0    977,551.9  12.3 120,509.6
I-. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATING COSTS - VEHICLES        109.162.6       5.313.8    45,688.6        9,115.2      5.623.2    174.903.4  10.0  17.490.3
B. OTHER OPERATING COSTS                     -       3.300. 0    18,978.0       2,454.0    6, 264. 0     30,996.0  10.0  3.099. 6
C. SALARY AND ALtONANCE               20,999.5         600.0    15,960.0        3,918.0          0.0     41.477.5  10.0   4,147.8
D. TECHNICAt ASSISTANCE               42, 000.0     28,800. 0    46, 080.0      18, 480.0    33, 540. 0    168. 900.0  10. 0  16. 890.0
. .. .. ... ... ...  ..... ..  .........  -- - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - -
Total RECRRE'NT COSTS                    172, 162. 1    38.013.8   126,706.6       33,967.2    45. 427. 3    416.276.9  10. 0  41. 627. 7
Total BASELINE COSTS                      671,215.2     414.810.8   201, 643.0      39, 192.6    66, 907. 3  1.393.828.9  11.6 162, 137.3
Physical Contlng.nc:es                  86. 021.5     42,494.5    22,306.3        3,919. 3     7,395. 7    162, 137. 3   0.      0 O. 0
Price Contin_eIs                     1, 325.814.9    814.026. 6   352, 162.8     69, 684.0    91. 149. 7  2, 653. 038.0  10. 3 2t3. 806.4
-- - - --   -   -- - --  - -   .......... . ..  -- - - -  --- -- --   -- -- -- -    ---    ...-------.....--.........:
Total PROJECT COSTS                     2,083,051.6   1,271,391.9   576.112.0       112,995.9   165.452.7  4.209,004.1  10.4 435,943.7
Taxes                                  204. 823. 1    162.537.0   83.894. 6      10,280. 8     8. 614. 2    470, 149.8  10. 3  48. 618.6
Foreign Exchange                     1.279.842.0     854.630.7   346.840.7       75, 594. 9   117. 920. 8  2,674,829. 1  10. 1 269.311. 1
December 2. 1987  19:04



- 53 -
Annex 3
sours note umuuumi urtitatoul MA                                  Table 4
,s. tew. _ms mesas i_e asutuvtiml
NtW man Mast hbh1e
...   .....  ...........t            ....                                         C .ots   in   $
Unit    U/es asul0  Ms/IO SO/St 91/t2   S2/93  Total   Unit Cost 3/sa   a U/       ag9/ o9 90/St   91/92  92/93  Total
*SSSSS   tA  .,,,,A, .........: 53*44 ...  *S 5 5 3 *5t5X  4*.* SSS.  53 :ttS ,AS....      5.3 . . -,5.....  .....  ...I ..... :
1, laINESTMENT COttStS
A. CIVIt MIOMIS
...........
RuING PASSE                       SUN                 -                        -     -                               4 400.0   500.0   200.0    -   t100.0
* ItioNt DRAINAGE                 SUt              -                           -     -sun                            250.0   400.0   200.0      -    S50.0
SHOPING                           SUN                                       -                              - 600.0   600.0   450.0                 I,- ,50.0
1WttG 1114                        U                        -          -                      -S*-,                   400.0   800.0   500.0      -  1.700.0
POEtIN. 8 GNERUA  A TRAFFIC       SUo                           -               -                                -  400.0   250. 0   150.0           800.0
S"-fosal CIVIL MOMS                                                                                           - 600.0 2.250.0 2.400.0 1,.0500         6,300.0
VEfNICLES
GRADER t20tlP                     Ea         -           4     4                        a *  8  4.800      -     -  120.0   320.0                    S 64. 0
SMEtL tOHogERo uP                 EA                     4      -       -               4       3.900            -  260.0                       -    260.0
tlPPIIC TRiUCK is TON)I           E          -     -           8        *       -      16       1,920                256.0   258.0           -       512.0
VISRATING RtttLE                  E4  4                                                           450      *     -   30.0         -       *     *     30.0
4 up PIK iUP                      t          -     -    S       -       -       -       S         900      -     -    20.O                -           120.0
IOTOR  tCLES                      E                      *      -                       4 -20              -           6.0                -     -      6.0 
siCCttES                          Ea                    40              -              40         4.S      -           30                 -     -      3.0
SM  PTS 111TIAL STOCII            SUN        -     -     4                      -       4       2.400            -   160.0        -       -     -    I60.0
. ............ ....... .... ..... ..... .......... ....... ....... ..... ........
5tu-total VEtlCtES                                                                                            -       1. 157.0   516.0             -  1.733.0
C. EGUIPNENT
HM   tOtttS                       SUN o                  4                      -       4      458.28      -     -   30.6         -                   30. 6
NO        OOLS                    $3J        -     -        *   -               -       4          60                  4.0                      -      4.0
ISORSSOP A OTHER EQUIPtIENT       SUN        *           4              -       -       4       3.750                250.0                           250.0
t6h-Totel ECUIPNElT                                                                                           -         284.6                -          264.6
total INVESTRENt COSTS                                                                                             600.0 3.691. 6 2,916.0 1;050.0   O   6.3;7 6
,  s5 ::S*  .:.:. s    .. ,.   :n .,.   :; :t -.S-
tl. RECURRNT COSTS
........... ........... .
A. VENICtES
GRADER 120 HP                 a000 HR                   2      6      10      12      30      919. a      -          32.?    98. 0   163.3 196.0    469.9
iELL tLOADER 60 HP            60  HR       -           2     4        5       6       17     795.6                  26.5    53.0    6. 3  79. 6    225 4
TIPPING TRUCK  6S TON)        eo0 NH        -     -     5    Is       23      26      71      580.2       -     -    48.4   145.1  222.4 270.8    686.6
VI*IATING ROLLER              6000 HR       -     -     2     4        4       5      1S      t13 4       -         -  .      I3. S    11. 6  14. S  43. 4
4 MO PICK UP                   EREI/N       -     -    46    96      9S       96     336       42.6       -     -    34.1   68.2    68.2  68.2    236.6
MOTOltR CYCLES                PER/YR        -     -    2      4        4       4      14      7t.52                   2.4     4.6      4 8   4.8      6. 7
EICYCtES                      PER/Yi        -     -   20    40        40      40     340         t.2      -           0.4     0.8      0.8   0.6      2.8
MSUOP A OTHER PLAMI           PER/ON        -          24    46       a       48     168      41.46                  S6.6    33.2    33.2  33.2    I. I
S"-total VENICLES                                                                                                 1- 66.8   414.5   570.5 667 6  138,9.4
8. OtHER OPERUTING COSTS
SEilOR STAfF A8ttOHNCES        N/YR         -     -    20    40       60      SO     360        33.2      *           4.4     6.6    33.2  13.2      39. 6
NAC3litE OPERATORS AttOiACES   N/YR                    30    60       66      72     228          16      -           9.0    36.0    19.8  21.6      68.4
HEADOENW' -IRERS ALtLOANCES    N/YR         -     -   300   700   t.000   t. 361   3.361       4.32                  23. 6    50.4    72. 0  98 0    242. 0
Sib-Total OthER OPERAIING COSIS                                                                                         35.0   7I? 2   I0.0 332.8    350 0
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONSULTING ENGINEER
SUPtt R  CONIlACI            sun                                        - -                            -     -   20.0   220 0   220.0 140.0    600.0
NECHNICAL ENGINEER
fOlR NAIEIENANCE LQUIPNENt    SUN              *     *                              -                             40.0    40. 0    20.0          100. 
Sib-Total IECHNICAt ASSISTANCE                                                                               *          60.0   260.0   240.0 340.0    700 0
Ttal RtCURRENt COSIS                                                                                                       261 8   751.7   915.5 949.4 .2.669 4
lotal- 600. 0 3.953. 3 3.7727 7 1.965 S 940.4 13, 186 9
-:,     ..  --s:    ::::::  ::: :2. 38    :
1&d          2,   ;987 2; t'2



- 54 -
Annex 3
Table 5
SwIImus  sist "      nuntiisi ammitstalm  Pfe
Table -. 11I5UhIUIAt AINtS
bbtaile  Cot table
I fsh lowt
Oiiiittt~ Base Costs in S
.................................................................... ....... . .............  . ................................................. ...............
Unit    87/U  58t8S 89 /90 90/91 91/92 92/93 Total    Unit Cost  87/88  88/89  8a/go   90f9t   91/92   92/93  total
::stss  S.. tsa$ss,  5     tsauut ta tss.  wsa tss.. asses.   as..  t:ss, nsa:s:s *::ss: *:5a5  a;...  :,ls wstss *s asass
1. IISVESINSI COSlS
................
A  CIvIlt   MS
R3A8RA *  ARENHOWSE              SO/N         -   1.50           -  -      -1.00                      12       -   300.0         -       -        -        -   300.0
NARtEiI0St tEEUlPEN   St      t               -        -s- -                                                            -    32.8       1.0     1.0      1.0    3J.8
Sub-lota, CIViL  OIMS                                                                                                 300.0    32.8        1.0     1.0      1.0   330.8
B. VEHICLES
4 NO PICK UP                      EA                    I                                  I         900       -    15.0         -                 -       -    1I.0
FORK till TRUCK                   LA                          I                            1         720       -             12.0         -                -    12.0
SICtCLfS                          EA  .       -        -      2      -            -        2         4.5                      0.2                                0.2
.-btotal VtHCttES                                                                                                       IS. 0    12.2        -                      21.2
C. GOCO PROCURED fOR RESAt
INPUTS
PURCHASE COST Clf I8ARARA         SUt         -        -      -            -      -                                913.0 1.006.0 1.102.0 1, 198.0 1.281.0 5,500.0
PROCUREIIENT CHARGE - UCf         SUN                  -      -      -     -      -                            -    69.0    76.0    84.0    921.0    98.0   418.0
S'h-Totil GOOD PROtURED fOR RESAt
INPUTS                                                                                                             982.0 t.082.0 1. 28.0  2,289.0 1.319.0 b.9t8.0
total INVESTHENI COSTS                                                                                                  1.297.0 1. 127. 0 1, 187. 0 1.290.0 1.380.0  6.28t. 0
5;5S: .;:f:;: s:.s::: st;:,2: *t::5:. tat:.:: St:.:::
II. RCURRENT COSTS
-1..............
A. VEHICtES
4 NO PICl UP                   PER/MN        -        6    22    12    22    12         54        42.6              4.3      8.5      8.5      8. 5     8. 5    38.3
NOTOR CYCLES                   PER/YR                 -      6    12    12    12        42       71.52        -        -     7.2    14.3    14.3       24.3    50.2
BICYCLES                       PER/TR        -        -      2     2      2      2       8          1. 2               -     0. 0     0.0      0.0      0. 0     0. 2
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                                               -     4.3    15 7    22.9    22 9    22. 9         8. 6
8. OtHER OPERATING COSTS
SENIOR 518ff AttOtNACES          SUN                            -      -          -                                 0.4      2.4      2.4      2 4      2.4    10.0
SDtlG REPS -
RISING tO 21 CONS            SUN          -        -                   -     -        -                   -        -      6.0      6.0     6.0      6 0    24.0
RISC. OPERATING COSTS            SUN              -      -      -         -        -           -        -                   10.0      6.0      7. 0     8. 0    31.0
Sib-lotal OtHER OPERATING COSTS                                                                                        0.4    18.4    14.4    15.4    16.4    6S.0
C. TACINICAL ASSIStANCE
...... ... .... .....
PROCUREIENT nINAGER              N/N         .        9    12    12       3      -      36         600             90.0   120.0   120.0    30.0               360.0
INPUtS STUDIES                  N/N          -        -     -      5      3     2       10         720       -        -        -    60.0    36.0    24.0   120.0
Sub-total IACNIIICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                       90.0   120.0   180.0    66.0    24 0   480.0
Total RECURRENT COStS                                                                                                      94. 7   154. 1   217 3   104.3    63.3   633. 6
totl                                                                                                                  -1.392.? 1.281. I 1.404.3 1,394.3 1,443.3 6,914.5
.        .   1          ......................................... .....................................
lovwOuer 2. 198t 21: 12



- 55 -
Annex 3
TaLble 6
f-
sAmist REGION ARiutIAL  ZiH UILiIaiiIN pug
Mt. i. agtivi uiais    8 isatnhSui
ISf tW  Cit table
IsfitItY                                               8.e  Costs in S
Unit   87/88 A'881 89/20 90o/9  91/12 92/i Total  Unit Coat  8tlU1  88189  893/0 90/91 91192 92/93 Total
ntgSsaZ  S*SS*tt   RUStS sXltS 55555 55333 ftlS tSllt SSS::: 33515SSRSS  S*SS: 5*453 54553 3555: sas;.::
I. INVESttENTt COSTS
.~~~~~~~~~~~~22 _ls ................. 0                                           .....   ..........z....   ......   .
I. ilEtNEt   cots
........ .....
A. CIVIL HORS
RECONSTR&ITIOII of Ofti           stBNmG       -     2         -        -            2      12.000       -   400.0            *            -   400.0
OffICE/STORE I1ALENGYERE-
I16 i21                       81ONG        -      -     I     -                   I      1.080       -        -8.0         .                   .- 8. 0
NEi SIORE RUfURE l802)              oO         -     *EI          - IS                         960                   16.0     -      -     -    l6.0
aE-ES?. O* Oft UTILITIES           Sul               -            -                                           9 -    92.0  -                    92.0
NEll OffICE RU MR121 ISO 0d2     8U0LM                     I t                              1,440       -          24.0      -     -      *    24.0
PREfAIS fOR TA STAFf
1120 a2l                      sto0G        -     2      -                  -      2      4.320       -   144.0      -     -      -     -   144.0
CONSt fOR 0OEl PuRPosEs
KER YEAR                        SUN                                               -                  -            5.0   5.0   50   5. 0    20. 0
Sub-Total CIVIL  ORS                                                                                        -   636.0  63.0   5.0   5.0   S.0   714.0
S. VfNICClES
4 it PIC  UP                        A          -    is      -     -     -      -    I5         000       -   225.0      -        -         -   225.0
NIStItS                            E           -     2                         -     2       1.800       -    60.0      -     -            -    60.0
MOTOR CYCLES                       [A          -     a      -    14      -     -    22         120       -    16.0      -  28.       -          44.0
BICYCLES                           EA          -    60      *120         *     -180            4.s       -     4. s     - .0                    t 13.5
SPARE PARTS
IINITIAL STOCi                 SUn         -      I     -     -                            t o100         350       - o                      35.0
Sub-Total VE£ICCLES                                                                                         -   340.5      -  37.0           3- 77.5
C. EOUIP"£NEt
ENUIP1t£iT fOR fIELD
EllTENSION STAFF                NTH         -    6e     -   120      *          180        14. 4           14. 4        28. 8    -      -    43.2
EQUIPNENT 
ICULTURE RESEARCH               SUN         -   0.5   0.5      -     -      -     1       3.462       -    28.9  28.9      -            -    57.7
EXTENSION TRAIMInO (CUIP           SUN         -   0.5   0.5      -           -      -  t   088.4              9.1   9.1    *-   I-                 I
ELUIPNENT fOR Ofl. ETC.            SUN         -   0.5   0.5      -                  1       1.704       -    14.2  14.2      -     -      -    28.4
fURIISHIHGS fOR SlAff HOUSES   PER "SE         -     2      -     -            -     2         300            10.0      -                       10.0
Sth-Total-EQUIPNEHT                                                                                         -    76.s  52.   28.              -   157.4
total tVESwtEm T COSTS                                                                                         - 1,053. 0 115.1  70.  S.    5 s. o I. 248.9
.fl.. ::SSSS: Is... *5555 start s.c:: ::5::S:
II. RECURRENT COSTS
............... ............ 
A. OPERATING COSTS -
VEHICLES
4 Io VEHICLES
125.000 KN/YRI                P/a         -    90   180   Igo   i80   I80   810          42.6       -    63.9 127.8 127.8 127.8 127.8   575. 1
NINISIISES
115.000 KH/YRI                P/N         -    12    24    24    24    24   108         51.84            10. 4  20.7  20.7  20.7  20.7    93.3
fiOTOR CyCtES                     P/N         -     4     7    14    21    21    67         7.52        -     4.8   8.3  16.7  25.0  25.0    79.9
BICYCLES                         P/YR         -     O    60   too   ISO   too   660           1.2             1.2   12   3.6   3.6   3.6    13.2
su-lotl OPERATING COSTS -
VEICtES                                                                                                -    80. 2 158.1 168.8 177.2 177. 2   761.5
8. SALARARY ONOD AtLOWANCE
.. . . . . ......... ............... __
STAFF FIE0 AtLO CIEaCES          SUn                                                                  -    22.4  44.7  44.7  77. 1 77 1   26fi.0
stoitG REPS-RISING To 2f  CONS    SUn               -      -     -     *                                -       -   5.0   9.0  12.0  14.3    40.3
RISC. OPERATING COSTS             SUN            -     -         -       -          -                        30.0  54.0  64.0  64.0  64.0   276.0
Shb-?otul SALARARY AN0 ALtLOINCE                                                                           -    52.4 103.7 117.7 153.1 165.4  582.3
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                                                       -
.. . . . . . ...    ..
INlT. L0ONG TERN
CONSULTANCIES                N/YR         -   1.3      2   0.7            -      4      7.200       -   156.0 240.0  84.0          -       480.0
F0LLO1 UP ST. CONSULTANCIES       N/N         -           -      8     a     8    24          720      -96.0  96.0  96.0   288 0
Sub-Tot*l TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                 156.0 240 0 180.0  96.0  96.0   768.0
total RE URRENI COSTS                                                                                          -   288.6 501.6 466.5 426.3 428.6 2111 8
Total                                                                                                           - 1.341.7 616.9 537.3 431.3 433 6 3.360.7
.         2.                                           .  ..                                                                    .......  ..........     ......
Noveber 2. 1997 21: 13



- 56 -
Annex 3
Table 7
UGAND
SOUIIWEST REGION AGIWIbURAL EINAIIblII £110 PROISCI
table 400. KOIIORIN A EViwIatiow
Doetailed Cost Table
I U. Sh I 000
0sntIty                                             8ass Costs in $
.... .... ........ ........... ...... ........ .      . .  .......  ........... . ........ ....... ......... 
Unit    87/88 88/89 89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 Total  Unit Cost 87/88 88/89 89/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES
4 NO PICK UP                         EA         -    2       -     -     -           2         900         30.0      -     -              30.0
NOTOR CYClES                         EA               a      -     -                 8         120      -  16.0      -     -     -     -  16 0
8ICYCLES                             EA         -    20      -     -     -     -    20         4.5         1t5       -     -     -     -   1.5
SPARE PARTS IlNITIAL STOCK)          SUN                  -     -     -        -               -            4.9     -      -     -     -   4.9
Sub-Total VEHICMES                                                                                            52.4                           52.4
S. EQUIPMENT
FIELD EQUIPNENT                      SUN        -      I     -                 -      1      628.4      -  10.4     -      -     -     -  10.4
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                     SUN        -                  -           -      I      1.455         24.3                        - 24.3
Sub-Total EQUIPIENI                                                                                        - 34.7                            34.7
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                        - 87               -           - 8t7.1
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATiNG COSTS -
VEHICLES
4 11D VEHICLES
130. 000 mN/YRI                             -    24    24    24    24    24   120       51. 12      - 20.4  20.4  20.4  20.4  20.4 102.2
NotOR CYCLES                                   -     8     8      8     8     8    40       71.52      -  9.5   9.5   9.5   9.5   9.5  47.?
BICYCLES                                       -    20    20    20    20    20   100          1.2          0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   2.0
Sib-Total OPERATING COSTS -
VEHICLES                                                                                               - 30.4  30.4  30.4  30.4  30.4 151.9
8. SALARY ALLOWANCE
STAFf FIELD ALtOWIANCES             SUN                        -     -        -     -                  -  13.0  13.0  13. 1  13.    13. 1 65.3
STAFF TRAINING AltLOWANCES          SUN                                                    -               5.7   4.4   4.4  4. 4   4.5  23.4
NISC. OPERATING COSTS               SUN           -      -     -     -     -     -            -            3.5   3.5   3.5   3,5   3.5  17.5
Sub-Total SALARY ALLOlMNCE                                                                                - 22.2  20.9  21.0  21.0  21.1 106 2
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE S TRAINING
OVERSEAS SHORT COURSES            COURSE       -     2      -                 -     2         600      - 2C.0      -      -              20.0
1 A E CONSULTANCE                 NaN NTH      -    9       3     3     3     6    24         720      - 108.0  36.0  36.0  36.0  72.0 28.0
Sub-total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE S TRAINING                                                                 - 128.0  36 0  36.0  36.0  72.0 308.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                         - 180.6  87.3  87.4  87.4 123.5 568.1
:::::::::::::: :         ::::  ::::: : :::
total                                                                                                          - 267.7  87.3  87.4  87. 4 123.5 653.2
llov: t.S  :. 21: 11
Novembeor 2. 1987 21:1Ii



- 57 -
Annex 3
Table 8
SJTHNISt RGtIoN AOGRICULTURAL RItEHILII   PRWEC
lebl, SOO  MONMIENTI SUPPORT
Detailed Cost table
I U. SI '0
ou.ntity                                             Base Costs in $
-------------- --------------                    ......... ... ...  s.  .            ............   .........................
Unit  8tJ8  88/89  9/90 90/91  91/?2 92/93 rotal Unit Cost 87WA  88/89 69/90 90/91 91/92 92/93 total
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
..... ...... ..... .....
A. CIVIL  ORS
RENOVATION OF
PROJECT OFFICE               1DuO      I    -      -                               3.300   55.0     -           -           -   550
RENOVATION Of STAFF HOUSES     81011     -    3                               3      3.000        160.-                            180.0
Sub-total CIVIL  ORS                                                                             55.0 180.0      -     -     -     -  235.0
9. VENIClES
4 MD PICKUP FE                            2            -        -     -        2        900   30.0               -     -        -   30.0
SPARE PARTS (INITIAt STOCII     sun                 -                                   1S0   3.0      -           -                  3.0
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                                                               33.0        -     -                    33.0
C. ElilPKNt
FURNITURE FOR STaff HOUSES      SET       -    3      -    -       -     -    3         300      -  t5,0     -           -     -    15.0
RADIO IELEPHONE EOUIPNENT       SET       -      I    -      -                        3.00 -  I000    SO 5O SO.0
EOUIPMENT FOR PROJECT OFFICE    SET     0. 3   0.7 t. 500    7 ISO                                   5   tt     5-                  25 0
Sii-total EQUIPtE1t                                                                               7. 5  825     -         -5            90. 0
95. 282-- ------ ----3... .0...
tot,l INVESTIIEII COSTS                                                                            .3S   262:: S   3:  ;:5* 12S1:2 ;12Ct:
It. NECURNI COSts
- ... ...   . .
A. OPERAtING COSTS -
VEHICIES
4 O VtEHICLES
125. 000 £1/IUI                      12   24    24    24    24    24   132         42.6    8 5  17.0  17.0  17.0  17. 0  17 0    93. 7
Sib-Total OPERATING COSTS -
VEHICLES                                                                                      85  17.0   7. 0  17. 0  17. 0  17. 0    93.7
IL SALARY A1O ALLOHACE
-- .. ..... ....
STAFF flELD ALLOWNCES          SUN       -                                                    0.0  O.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0
810lO6 REPS -
RISING TO 22 CONS           sUo       -            ,    ,                  ,                 -  2.0   S. 6  5.   6  S. 5.6    24.4
CONWIMItY GaPS SUPPORT         SUN                                                                   5 0  10.0  15. 0  20.0  30.0    80.0
NISC OPERATiNG COSTS           Sun          -                     -       -                   0.0   0.0   0.0   0. 0   0.0   0.     0.0
Ssk-Iotel SALARY IID ALLOWCE                                                                     0.0   1.0  15.t   20.6 25.6  35.6   104.4
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT EXPEOl tER                       4     -     -            -           4        720   4. 0     -                        -   48. 0
PiJoiNG DESIGN
/SPECS STUDY                          3     -     -     -     -      -     3        720   36.0     -                 -           36.0
fiNAtiAtL CONTROttER                     -    8    t2   I2    4              36        800      - 80. 0 120.0 120. 0  40.0     -   30. 0
AM  INVENTORY I EVAL STUDY    SUN        -         -                                               3 -  76. 7  8. 3  -             115. 0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISIANCE                                                                 160.7 118.3 120.0 120.0  40.0          559.0
total 9t5EURjmt COStS                                                                              169.2 142.3  52.56 17. 6   2. 6  U2.5 . 757.1 
totol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 :, :s#: 4:.; .g* ,.,, tl:4: :1:;,; 
Total                                                                                               284.7 404.8 152.8 157.6 82.6  *5 1. 15.1
Nave4e  2. I98? 2 1:  3



- 58 -
UGANDA                                                       Arex 4
SOJTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost BenefIt Analysis                                               Table 1
IMPACT OF ADAPTIVE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROGRAM REQUIRED FOR 151 ERR
A) Uptake of Isxbls
Yr1   Yr2   Yr3   Yr4   Yr5   Yr6   Yr7   Yr8   Yr9  YrlO  Yr1l Yrl2-15
Area         Tot Farms         -   -     - 
. ............. CumulatIve Percentage Adopting Research/Extension.
Zone 1        70,000         O.5S  1.0X    31   5    71    71    71    71    71    7X    7X               71
Zone 2       200,000         0.5X  1.0X    31    5X    71    7X    7X    7X    7X    71    71              71
zone3         30,000         0.01 0.0   0.51    1X    2X    21    21    21    21    21    21              21
.................................. A etNbers...............................
Zone 1                       350   700 2,100 3,500 4,900 4,900  4,900 4,900 4,900 4,900 4,900  4,900
Zons 2                     1,000  2,000 6,000 10,000 14,000 14,000 14,000 14,000 14,000 14,000 14,000  14,000
Zone 3                         0      0    150   300  6008  00         00   600  860 800   600    600
Totals                     1,350 2,700 8,250 13,800 19,500 19,500 19,500 19,500 19,500 19,500 19,500  19,500
Overall Percentage LUtake    0.51   0.91   2.81   4.68  6.51   6.51   6.5X  6.51  6.51  68.5   6.5X   6.51
B)   Incremental ProductIon (tone)
Bananas                        0   184 1,254 3,955 10,763 20,812 34,461 44,564 50,347 50,347 50,347 50,347
Cereals                        0    24   109   488  1,030 2,200 3,343 4,247  4,339 4,339 4,339  4,339
Peas/Beans/G. Nuts             0     19    47   143   271   432   522   570   575   575   575    575
Potatoes                       0    27   125   324   754  1,242  1,884 1,847  1,931  1,931  1,931  1,931
Other Root Crops               0      0    87   313   828  1,760 2,774 3,438 3,548 3,546 3,546  3,546
C) Phased Incremental Output (Mill USh)
Zone 1                       0.0   0.4   1.8   5.8  13.1  24.6  35.8  43.1  44.9  44.9  44.9   44.S
Zone 2                       0.0   0.8   2.9   9.8  23.7  46.2  71.3  89.2  95.6  95.8  95.6   95.6
Zone 3                       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2    0.2
Total Inc Output             0.0   1.0   4.7  15.8  36.8  70.9  107.2  132.8  140.8 140.8  140.8  140.8
0) Phased Incremental Costs (MllI USh)
Zon 1                        0.0   0.2   0.8   1.9   4.0   7.3  10.1  12.0  12.4  12.4  12.4   12.4
Zone 2                       0.0   0.3   1.1   3.5   7.8  13.8  19.8  24.0  25.6  25.8  25.6   25.6
Zone 3                       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.1
Total Inc Cash Costs         0.0   0.5   1.7   5.4  11.7  21.1  30.0  36.1  38.1  38.1  38.1   38.1
Inc Net Fare Cash Benf lts   0.0   0.5   3.0  10.2  25.1   49.8  77.2  98.4  102.7  102.7  102.7  102.7
In¢r Labor ('OO0 days)         0     5    25    85   200   387   587   728   774   774   774    774



- 59 -
UGANDA                                                          Anmex 4
SGUTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Benef it Analysis                                                 Table 2
E) Economic Analysis of Adaptive Research and Fxtension
Yrl    Yr2    Yr3    Yr4    Yr5    Yr6    Yr7    Yr8    Yr9  YrlO   Yrll Yrl2-15
. ..              .    .     U $00...........................................
GROSS INCREM FARM BENEFITS      0      16    78    261    614  1,182  1,787  2,210  2,346  2,346  2,346   2,346
Inc Farm Cash Costs             0      9     28     91    195    352    500    602    635    635    635      635
Econ Value of Inc Labor\1       0      2       .    35      83    161    245    303    323    323    323      323
Component Costs (ewon)\2    1,359    614    532    428    430
Operating Cost Yr6 on\2                                           303    303    303    303    303    303      303
Av Vehicle Repl Cost\3                                             83     83     83     83      83     83      83
TOTAL INCREMENTAL COST      1,359    625    571    554    709    900  1,131  1,292  1,344  1,344  1,344   1,344
NET INCR BENEFITS          (1,359)  (609)  (493)  (293)   (95)   283    657    918  1,002  1,002  1,002   1,002
Economic Rate of Return       ERR
Footnotes: \1 Economic cost of labor estimated at 50X of the wage rate I.e. USh 25/day
\2 Finanmial costs, IncludIng physlal contingeniess less taxes on fuel etc.
\3 Based on an average vehicle llfe of 5 years
03-Nov-87



- 60 -
UGAN*DA                                                         _NNEX 4
SOUTHWEST REGION AGRICULTUIAIE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cost Benefit Analysis                                                Table 3
VOLLE OF TRAFFIC AND BENEFITS FROM ROADS FOR 15% ERR
A) Total Annual SavinSgs Per Vehicle Km Daily (US$)
Vehicle  Value Total per TypIcal  Savings
Op Costs  Tlme    Veh Km  Average  Per Year
Saved     Saved   Daily   Daily
Traffic
Lt Goods                     73.9     2.4      76.3       3     229.0
Madium Goods                147.7    3.6      151.2       2     302.5
Bus                         147.7   19.1      166.8       2     333.5
Four Wheel Drive             85.8    2.1       67.9       3     203.7
Motor Cycle                  11.4     0.9      12.3               0.0
Blcycle                       1.0     1.2       2.3               0.0
1068.7
B) Economic Costs and Benefits per Kilometer of Roads (US$)
Yrl    Yr2        Yr3    Yr4       Yr 5    Yr6        Yr7    Yr8        Yr9   YrlO
Benefits From Reduced Costs         1,069     1,069   1,069     1,069   1,069     1,0B9   1,089      1,069   1,069
incremental Economic Costs:
Rehabilitatlon Cost \1      3,953
kmuI Mai ntenance \2 \4               162       162     162       162     162       162     162        162     162
Regravelling (50% of Rds) \3                                            1,721
Total Costs                 3,953     162       162     162       162   1,883       162     162        162     162
Net Benefits               (3,953,    906       906    906        906    (815)      906     906       906     906
Rate of Return         15%
(Over 15 Years)
Footnotes  \1  Average Cost under project, Including physical contingencIes but net of taxes.
\2 Based on Grading twice per year - Costs Include physical contingencIes but exclude taxes
\3 50% of roads have gravel surfaces which need renewing every 5 years
\4 Amual Economic Malntenance Cost:
Unit  No of      Cost/
Unit      Cost  LliIts     Km/Yr
Grader *                  Hour           27       2      54.0
Trucks *                  Hour           14       4      56.0
Drivers etc.              Hour          0.2       6       1.2
Laborers                  Day             1      30      30.0
ContingencIes                           15%              21.2
Total Economic Cost                                     162.4
* Figures from Arnex 8, Document 5, Table 6 adJusted for
depreciation and Including the cost of capital at
Its opportLunty cost of 15%



- 61 -
Annex 5
UGANDA
Southwest Region Development Project            Table 1
Project Area Data
District Characterlstics
1987
Dlstrilt         County     Sub-   Parishes       1980         X/Annum   Projected       Area   Population
Counties            Population      Growth    Population      (sq km)    per
2/       2/             2/         1/             1/         3/   Sq Km
Mbarara        Rwampara          4       26         91,010
Ruhama          4       26         89,150 1
Isingiro         3       19        112,430 5
BMAanga          3       12         63,860 1
Ibanda          6       26        127,590
Kasharl          5       26         94,760
Nyabushos ;    6          30         77,840
_-   _                                                 1 I                 I
hbarara Total                   31       165        656,640 1      4.2%      917,886      10,840       85
Bushenyl         Igara            5       36        118,400 1
Sheema          6       31        113,220 I
Buhweju          4       18         34,930 11
Bunyaruguru        3       19         52,850
Ruhinda          4       25         87,780 1
Kajara          3       18         89,630 1
Rushenyl         4       23         48,180
-   --                   I                        I                     I
Bushenyl Total                    29      170        522,990        2.41      619,456       5,400      115  1
I                        I                    I 
Kabals        Bufumbira         6        31        128,680
Rubanda          5       34        106,750             1 1
Ndorwa          8       47        154,660
RukIga          4       25         67,490
__ _ _ ___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                             I .I
Kabale Total                   23       137        455,560        1.2X      495.059      2,490       199 t
Rukungirl       Kinkizl          7        36        118,660 1
Rujumbura         6       35         95,770 1
Rubabo          4       23         83,280
_ _ _ __ ~~~~~~~~~~~I                          I ...I
Rukungirl Total                   17        94        297,710        1.9%      338,369      2,750       123  1
S.W. Region Total                   100      566      1,932,900        2.71    2,370,770     21,480       110
5 I                      I
03-Nov-87
1/ World Bank 'Uganda: Progress Towards Recovery and Prospects
for Development'. June 5, 1985.
2/ Reglonal Agricultural Office, Mbarara, June 1987.
3/ MAF, Plaming Division, June 1987



- 62 -                                              Annex 5
UGANDA                                                         Table 2
Soutwest Region DeveloPment Project
Project Area Data
Distrlct Characterlstics
/Ariman           1/ArrA
DistrIct Countles Sub- Parlsh    Total   Pop'n    Urban   Urban    Rural              Projected  Projected  Projected
Oounties       Population Growth   Pop'n   Growth    Pop'n            Urban      Rural      Total
V     2/    1980   1970-80    1980   1970-80        1980      Pop'n 1987 Pop'n 1987 Pop'n 1987
1/     1/         1/      1/                       8/                     6/
Kabale      4      23    137 t  455,400      1.2X   21,500    9.68    433,900  0    40,843   454,216    495,059
O                                                 I                                   I
Riku4girl      3      17    94    296,600    1.9X        1,400    7.0%   295,200  t       2,248   338,121     338,369  1
I                                                 t                                   I
Mbarara      7      31    165    688,200    4.21   23,300    3.61    664,900           29,845   888,041     917,886
Bushenyl      7      29   170 t  524,700    2.41    2,100    7.01   522,600  t           3,372   616,084    619,456
S.W. Region     21     100   586 t1,984,900    2.71   48,300    6.51  1,916,600            78,308 2,294,462   2,370,770
IGANDA                          12,838,200    2.71 1,100,000    3.8X 11,536,200      1,428,151 13,798,882  15,226,833
S.W. Reglon as 1                           168                41                 17X            5X       17X         168
of Uganda
1/ World Bank 'Uganda: Progress Towards Recovery and Prospects
for Development'. June 5, 1985. Results of 1980 Census (pp 121-122)
2/ MAF,Regional Agricultural Office, Ibarara, Jane 1987.
3/ FAO/IFAD CP Preparation Report for SW Reglon Project.
4/ MAF, Planning DlvIslon, June 1987.
5/ Excluding coffee, tea and tobacco.
6/ Projected using 1970-1980 actual growth rates for urban and total population.
farm family      7 (In 1980)
03-Nov-87



- 63 -
Annex 5
UGANDA                                                Table 3
Southwest Region Development Project
Project Area Data
District Characteristics
1980                                  1987
Culti-    1985       1987             Cultl-    1987
District     Total    Cultivable Rural        1980     1980      vable   Cropped     Proj. Projected   vabie   CroPped
Area       Area    Pop'n      Persons   Total      Area/    Area!     Persons  Farms     Area/    Area/
4/        4/ per Sq Km   p/Farm    Farms     Farm      Farm      p/Farm    1987     Farm     Farm
(sq km)    (sq km)                                   (ha)     (ha)                         (ha)      (ha)
Kabale       2,490     1,990      174  1       7     61,986      3.2      1.9  1      7    64,888       3.1      1.8
I                                       II
Rukungirl       2,750     2,120      107  '       7     42,171      5.0      2.4  0      7    48,017       4.4      2.1
Mbarara      10,840    10,390      61           7     94,986     10.9      1.6  1      7   126,863       8.2      1.2
Bushenyl       5,400     4,120      97  1        7     74,657      5.5      2.2         7    88,012       4.7      1.9
S.W. Region     21,480    18,620       89          7    273,800      6.8      1.9         7   327,780       5.7      1.6
_=  1 =   ==                           ==1   ====                                        =
UGANDA       241,140   164,450
S.W. Region          9X        11%
of Uganda
1/ World Bank 'Uganda: Progress Towards Recovery and Prospects
for Development'. June 5, 1985. Results of 1980 Census (pp 121-122)
2/ MAF,Reglonal Agricultural Office, ilbarara, June 1987.
3/ FAO/IFAD CP Preparatlon Report for SW Region Project.
4/ MAF, Plannlrg Division, Juns 1987.
5/ Excluding coffee, tea and tobacco.
6/ Projected using 1970-1980 actual growth rates for urban and total population.
Farm family slze:   7
03-Nov-87



- 64
Annex 6
UGANDA
SOUTHWEST REGION REHABILITATION PROJECT
List of Documents Available in the Project File
A.       Documents Relating to Project Appraisal
1.   Adaptive Research and Extension
2.   Input Supply
3.   Rural Roads
4.   Monitoring and Evaluation
5.   Detailed Project Cost Tables
6.   Project Impact
7.   Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
Positions and Studies
B.       Project Preparation Documents
1.   Preparation Report - FAO/IFAD Cooperative Program
Investment Center, 116/85 IF-UGA 8, Sept. 1985
2.   Uganda Commercial Bank - UCB Rural Farmers Scheme, May 1987
C.       Sector Related Documents
Agricultural Task Force Reports, 1987
-    Marketing, Storage and Processing Food Crops
-    Agricultural Credit
-    Organization, Manpower and Training
-    Agricultural Inputs
-    Comparative Advantage of Cotton and Competing Crops
-    Agricultural Research
-    Land Tenure and Soil Conservation



- 65 -
HOUTH RIEST ACSION AlACUL1URAI 150U13.1r*liOA PV3ECT
I11PLEMECITA101 SCOWlI
?re-Proj,ct 1.... Project V~restOs-    ...Project Yealr Two..  ...Project Year Thr"e .  ...Project Year Four..  ...PrQjftt Year five..  ...Project Year Si,,...
'Prcject Cuordloa!or in pluct         113121111111111111
1FtAaa1ue  WS  TA Contracts            it
tt1i9Dsg    ontract              311111
31lpeidtor in Place                       ouzlIAo,                                                          ,
l ItI  lvitoty lot. 1. sacs     I   aoas,sxuz,lu
:Office Rmnovat.oo                             .111 
:Prefab Ordar/Iilvery 12)                          I....                                                                              I
Wtrfab Erectioi                                                flis             II 
:Placiog SF1 Rions. Contract                    ..    .
Maret.oise Construct  leion
Placeeat ot itato IA Contract                    -i...
1rina.tial Controller in Posit                              111i11111:111I11111011101U3111311111
'Applied btesatch to in Post                                                                                                                               s ouluomu:IrazmI,ozubu3IgnI  1110111113  OllIltiIl
prEiownIt t.f ist Inpuit Sul                        ..........
3el1wieio  n4 lst It.Pnt Ivy~                                           dddUidd AUdi     .t
:Proc Ilelli. Subsiqoont Jrpats                                                    ddi#d4W44dUMMdddddOIdddddddd4dd dME        #dd:dgd     dddddf dddUEi ddddUfddddE4;ddddd:daddljodMUEdd        4ud4dl4dddddMd
:Si.Fly of Ag Inpouts to Feruft                                               iaaaniisoiu :1
loput Supply CormuItancias                                                     1                                         11111                sill1         is    Ill            It            311
Pritatizatlon Inputs Supply                                                                                3                                    pppPopppppmppppp Ipippppppppppp
:lIiitia1 V A I Proc/ill iier        1 ..d4J4d                                                                                                                      I
1RailProcerueerVItfE                i        ........
Main Delivery Proj V AI E           i                      MEUUdifiEdiididddIUA IdUEEdEAM                                I                                         I
AnsnientmtofA t        E     viso,           Imo    I                                                      I 
S At Anaor to Place             1                llnIuu              itloill                     nigh)l                      m13l11                      111111               13111130131
*   I                                                                                   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:1Aocruitsiot of CmI Engineers                       .......
itonnailtint Eagg it Place                                                       ouon:nonVnuosoosnzisiotn1m tu,,11
:Placfuit of Raids Cooltract                        I    .......
!Rad Constructioni                  I               I                             103311011131i3003i01131h131111i 
I              i                                                        
Procurosit Of Rd Paint. Ego.   !                    ........I...
Dellivry of Rd mtalt Eq.                                                        olloulolmn 
Rad Raufotenmnci Carried Out    I
Did faen  Reuh   of Project                        Ilizol                                                                              I
...... .            - --  - -- -- - - -- - - -- - - --- . ... . .. . . .. . .     .. ... . . .... . -            - - ---.   -- - - -- -   - -- - - -- - -       - - --- - ---.--    - --- - - -- - - -- - --.. . .
V-5nP-01



CA     SUDAN       ETHIOAAI
A R
ZAIRE   *      K1mA
(>L/A~~~~~~IV,OIA XNC \t1
TANZANIA  OCIEAN               L
K       R                                               A P 1 A e
s H  MSUTWSTRGINAGIULUA
tKlLO"fYREO 10  0     tO    *0   120    40    60 tKlLOSiElTRE
URA
_                                         _~~~~RAMA



UGANDA
SOUTHWEST REGION
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PRC
PROJECT AREA
(-/
M,/  Project Area
Molor Roads
Rai lroods              i (
30          Rivers                   '  ARUA
o   District Capitals
_ ._ District B::-jndaries
International Boundaries  d X
NEBBI
0   25  50  75  100 KILOMETERS
I   I    l I      . 
0     20   40   60 MILES
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
4/
10 
\    /  'WABA X3X1oi
1°  t           /  @,jl-X_40/7'O
1' iv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



IBRD 20814
320                           339
)JECT                          S   U   D   A    N
._ . MOYOQ\                                                                              \
umbe                                                                                    K , bonga
KITGUUM
Rhino  ,                             '//'
7                                               ,                          V KOTIDO
*GULU LU                                                                 .
-'                                                               4 )  O  OTO{Ngetto
t   t  \       /                  Ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R A                                     t 8JR  o 
o l  j   <3  Adyeda\                                                            2-
MASINDI C=SRg,. *
--D   °Lole 
HOIMA                                                                                                 KAPCHORWA
utemo                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~KAPCHORWA
ao  ;   Namasongo a-                ^nge
} J' ''t. \ ' ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Polliso  ,//L 
.\   \   .   f . -  I   iNamasogoll     '   'fl''-WMBALE    .
K                           (            CoKAMULI  r de7' .,  '  )e
,1   X   .v_           ;,~LUWE RO r    t*       ^           
B u k o lo to J:  1-10 B                                   .-  S h *t O v n  p e ',n t
t 9 hukelosa                            Bultoloso 14,  >     h 'TORO 0 0  0 Ii',
N _rok   ONamulonge   },>/                  r(- 3oafn 
MPIGI  KkIMPALA                                       1'l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, cf The fl'dd iB',k s8'i Ihe
;  mPIGlka   >   X; MUKONO       '                                       S- Ir', r arn,r-POrtO
' Nv<~M                                                                                    4,y 1>jj  the e gaa' .ft'Oal' s
bE'bbZ                  ;                                                   35
*AJIBOUTI
7-      f,.ie        -2                  1               ,   4       SUDAN
MAI%ASA                                                                               ) eB w. - .  8 j ,   [   '  5   ETHIOPIA
,   < Izi     - *, t  f g           ,               ;   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C A Z1R
MRAKA ,                                                                              r,0
,.,,       t- '       ,   '*i     ' ) KENAYA 
Z      A I R E   !6 A 
t/                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RWANDAi,, 
ok                                          B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~URUNDI
T    A          N!Z             A    N             I   A                               tT;ANZANIA
>Y   '       '1; .s
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 330                                          (ZAMBIA'_               _
(3                                                                  _ \; L . V -AI, ..... .. __,,_,_-__|_._I__._;_._;_,_-O. . 1987
________________________________________~~~~~~~O§rO8E 'AM987



