Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16358
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SOUTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1869-UG)
March 4, 1997
Agriculture Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Appraisal: USh 60 = US$ I
At Completion: USh 1,000 = US$ I
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEP                  Agricultural Extension Project
ARTP                 Agricultural Research and Training Project
ASIP                 Agricultural Sector Investment Program
CP                   FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
CS                   Credit Scheme
DFI                  District Farm Institute
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
GOU                  Government of Uganda
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDA                  International Development Association
IFAD                 International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAAIF                Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
M&E                  Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
MOLG                 Ministry of Local Government
MTR                  Mid Term Review
NARO                 National Agricultural Research Organization
PCU                  Project Coordination Unit
PY                   Project Year
RFl                  Rural Financial Intermediary,
RM                   Resident Mission
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SOF                  Special Operation Facility
SWUADA               South West Uganda Agricultural Development Agency
SWRARP               South West Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
TA                   Technical Assistance
UCB                  Uganda Commercial Bank
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Uganda
I July - 30 June
Vice President             C. Madavo
Country Director           J. Adams
Technical Manager          S. Ganguly
Task Team Leader           T. Sharif



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SOUTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1869-UG)
CONTENTS
PREFACE ..............................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................ ii
Introduction ............................................ ii
Project Objectives ............................................                                      ii
Implementation Experience and Results ............................................                   iii
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned ............................................               vi
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .............................................1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .............................................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .............................................2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ........6....................................6
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ............................................7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ....8........................................8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............................................9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ............................................9
H. FUTURE OPERATION ............................................                                       10
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ............................................                                    10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ............................................                               12
APPENDICES
A. Aide Memoire
B. Evaluation Summary of Government's Completion Report
Map IBRD No.20814
FAO Map No. 1
FAO Map No. 2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Authorization         l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SOUTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1869-UG)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the South West Region Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project (SWRARP) in Uganda, for which Credit 1896-UG of SDR 7.6 million
(US$10 million equivalent) was approved by the International Development Association (IDA) on
February 9, 1988 and made effective on August 26, 1988. The project was co-financed by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) for which a Loan of SDR 9.1 million
(US$ 12 million equivalent) was approved on February 23, 1988. In addition, a grant of US$0.3
million was approved by IFAD from its Special Operation Facility (SOF). The project was
administered by IDA.
2.    The IDA Credit and IFAD Loans were closed on June 30, 1996, as compared with the
original closing date of June 30, 1994. Some 93 percent of the IDA Credit and 89 percent of the
IFAD Loan were disbursed, with the last disbursement taking place in July 1996 after the processing
of the final withdrawal application.
3.    The ICR was prepared by staff of the FAO/World Bank Co-operative Program (CP) on
behalf of AFTAI/CD4 of the Africa Region. Contributions to the report were made by Taqi Sharif,
Fred King, and Donna Criddle (AFTAI) and it was reviewed by Sushma Ganguly, Technical
Manager, AFTAI. The ICR is based on information obtained from the project files and on the
findings of an ICR mission' which visited Uganda in October 1996. The borrower prepared its own
assessment of the project performance. A copy of the Aide Memoire of the Implementation
Completion Mission and of the evaluation summary of Government's Completion Report are
attached as Appendices A and B, respectively.
Guy Evers (Mission Leader, Agronomist), Frances Maundrell (Agricultural Economist, Consultant) and El
Houssine Bartali (Civil Engineer, Consultant).






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SOUTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1869-UG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    During the period 1980-1988, IDA supported the agricultural sector in Uganda by providing
credits which focused on sector reconstruction, agricultural development, sugar, and forestry
rehabilitation. The South West Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (SWRARP) quickly
followed a similar Bank/IFAD funded Agricultural Development Project in Eastern Uganda, and was
intended to form part of a program to revitalize agriculture in Uganda in the aftermath of many years
of internal disruption.
Project Objectives
2.    At appraisal (1987), the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita had fallen by 40 percent
since 1970, with the ravages of war and insecurity having had a serious, negative impact on the rural
economy. In the project area2, some 20 percent of the 2,700 km rural roads was considered to be
impassable and 40 percent was passable only in the dry season. Marketing, input distribution
channels, and agricultural support services had largely disintegrated. The project's objectives were to
increase food production, incomes, and living standards of small farmers in the region. The project
originally included the following components: (i) launching of an adaptive research program and
reviving extension services; (ii) procurement and wholesale distribution of agricultural inputs; (iii)
rehabilitation of 2,000 km of rural access roads; (iv) project management; and (v) monitoring and
evaluation. Emphasis was given to rural road rehabilitation and input supply components, which
together represented about 80 percent of total project costs. The project was co-financed by the
Bank (US$10 million) and IFAD (US$12 million). A Special Operational Facility grant of US$0.3
million from IFAD was to be provided for start-up costs.
3.    After appraisal, IFAD introduced further proposals for Community Development which were
regarded as a separate component, although there was no change to IFAD's loan agreement. In 1992,
a Pilot Credit Sub-component (under Community Development) was incorporated in an amendment
of the IFAD loan agreement and, in 1994, following a request from the Government of Uganda
(GOU), a new component for the construction of Small Valley Dams was introduced under IFAD's
loan agreement.
4.    The original project objectives and design were appropriate to the region's priority needs in
the late 1980s. As both the national and local economies revived, the project design was rightly
2  At appraisal, the project area consisted of four districts (Mbarara, Bushenyi, Kabale and Rukungiri); two
additional districts were created during implementation within the same area: Kisoro and Ntungamo.



- iii -
adjusted from strict rehabilitation towards more long-term development objectives. The Community
Development component and Pilot Credit Sub-component were designed to strengthen efforts aimed
at core project c'bjectives by providing direct support to small farmers through groups. However, the
addition of the Small Valley Dams component near the end of the project, diverted project efforts
away from core project objectives rather than contributing to them.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Project costs are estimated at about US$26 million, or about 95 percent of Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) estimates. Investment costs were much lower than forecast (US$12.6 million as
against US$19.3 million at appraisal) principally because of shortfalls in civil works, especially
roads contracts and agricultural inputs. Recurrent costs were much higher than forecast (US$13.5
million as against US$8.1 million), mainly due to greater expenditure on operating costs attributed to
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), Technical Assistance (TA) and Overseas Training.
6.    Project implementation was slow from credit effectiveness in August 1988 until the Mid-
term Review (MTR) in 1992, with interventions limited to (a) adaptive research and extension in
seven priority counties, (b) training, and (c) procurement and resale of some agricultural inputs.
When project implementation took off in 19923, spreading over the entire region, GOU's Economic
Recovery Program and the associated liberalization program had led to a rapid improvement in the
economic conditions in the project area. By this time, the private sector was active and had its own
access to foreign exchange, making the project's agricultural input supply component largely
unnecessary. The component nevertheless had a positive impact by supplying inputs when they
were sorely needed early in the project, as discussed below. At the MTR, agreements were reached
on financial control and reporting, deployment of feeder road units, tender for the main roads'
contract, introduction of performance allowances, and finalization of the design of the credit
component.
7.    The project contributed substantially to reviving agricultural research activities and restoring
extension activities in the project area. Significant outcomes of this component, albeit limited to
some zones of the project area, are the release and wide adoption of superior Irish potatoes, and the
development and adoption of improved banana husbandry practices which will require minimal
pesticide applications to effectively limit weevil attacks, and increase yields by 20 to 30 percent. The
benefits of using improved seeds would, however, need further demonstrating to farmers, while seed
production capacity would need to increase to meet expected demand. In 1994, this component's
activities were handed over to regular research and extension programs, each being supported by a
separate IDA-funded project (Credit 2446-UG and Credit 2424-UG). Rather than support extension
and research activities in a fragmented manner, the rationale of the new projects was to support
national programs. This was a positive step, but the transfer of extension and research activities
reportedly resulted in some dilution of activities, due especially to the decentralization policy
(implementation of extension activities has been transferred to the districts) and budget reductions.
8.    Despite shortcomings, and being overtaken by events, the Agricultural Input Supply
component had a positive impact by supplying inputs and facilitating the establishment of retailers in
the region by providing them with stocks at a time when business was brisk. Private suppliers of
/ The project picked up in 1992 due to changes in Ugandan staff and had improved markedly even before the mid-
term review which took place in May 1992.



- Iv -
agricultural and veterinary inputs now operate in centers throughout the region. Overall, the value of
items handled (including basic tools, sprayers, chemicals, wheelbarrows and bicycles) amounted to
US$3.0 million, or 58 percent of SAR estimates. Expenditure on agricultural inputs was lower than
forecast because: (i) the size of early orders was reduced due to lack of storage capacity; (ii) delays
in procurement tended to have a domino effect which, together with difficulties in selling some stock
items, limited the number of purchases which could be completed; (iii) it proved unnecessary for the
project to import certain materials (e.g., construction materials and vehicles) which were readily
available in the project area; and (iv) by the time the last purchases took place in 1993, the private
sector was active and had its own access to foreign exchange.
9.    The project's significant and most widespread economic impact has been generated by the
rural access road rehabilitation program. Although implemented from 1992 onwards in an altered
form4, the component improved some 1,550 km of rural roads to dry-weather standards (compared
with the rehabilitation of 2,000 km to all-weather standards, as originally conceived at appraisal). It
is estimated that around 175,000 rural families (about I million people), who live within easy reach
of the roads have benefited from them. Surveys have confirmed that the opening up of previously
impassable roads has generated an increase in general economic activity and agricultural production,
with the share of the project area in the Kampala/Entebbe cooking-banana market increasing from
40 percent to 80 percent. Given adequate road maintenance, farmers in the project area will continue
to benefit, through increased access to agricultural support services, easier transport and marketing.
10.   Project Management was problematic in the first years of the project due to lack of
experience of newly-appointed staff and high turnover of TA experts, which led to difficulties in
initiating and coordinating project activities. The combination of both infrastructure and agricultural
support components, totaling seven in all, under the PCU, which was located regionally in Mbarara,
overstretched local management capacity. This led to liaison problems with the Ministry of Local
Government (MOLG) during the first half of the project. Rapid turnover of staff also contributed to
early implementation problems. Restructuring of the project and positive changes in senior project
management in 1992, greatly improved project performance. Better collaboration with local
authorities also resulted in enhanced political and administrative support from district
administrations, and the Inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee played an increasingly
effective role.
11.   Overall, the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit performance fell short of its objectives. The
unit carried out baseline, mid-term and final household surveys and thematic surveys which provide
valuable information on project impact. However, due mainly to shortage of local staff (already
redeployed on account of decentralization), reluctance to utilize available TA, and financial resource
constraints, the final household survey was simplified, and does not provide quantitative data on
agricultural production which could be compared with the results of the 1989 baseline survey. The
unit did not carry out regular financial (cost) monitoring. Although recommended in the mid-term
review, low priority was given to the monitoring of agricultural activities, cropping surveys were not
4/ Equipment procured under the project for maintenance was used by district units for spot improvement of 1,060
km from 1992. Road rehabilitation by contractors of 488 km took place between 1994 and 1996.



undertaken, and no analysis was carried out on the financial viability or impact on labor
requirements of the recommended crop packages and income generating activities.
12.   The Community Development component, including the Pilot Credit Sub-component (PCS),
has provided support to over 500 farmer groups and, through groups, to individuals, with some 65
percent women members. The Groups identified by community development staff were also used as
channels for extension and seed production activities. The component has had a localized impact on
incomes and nutrition through its promotion of diversified income-generating activities; but possibly
its greatest impact has been the fostering, through training, of local management capacity to
maintain simple books of account for Group activities, including for the PCS.
13.   The PCS was, overall, a success in that it has played an important role in fostering
enterprise and demonstrating income-generating activities in rural areas. Against an original
allocation of US$ 414,000, a total of US$ 1.01 million was disbursed largely using reflows, as a
result of repayment rates exceeding 80 percent. The performance of the project team is
commendable considering the low repayment rates achieved under similar Credit schemes in
other projects. It is also notable that the PCS was a program of Ugandan design, implemented by
determined and concerted efforts of many different local authorities. While the administrative
costs of PCS were relatively high, it can nevertheless serve as a model for the future expansion of
Credit to farmers in the rural areas, given the present reluctance of commercial banks accredited
under ongoing Credit programs to open rural branches and onlend to the farmers. Following a
proposed GOU policy for lending to farmers, an NGO, the South West Uganda Agricultural
Development Agency (SWUADA) was set up in early 1996 to, inter alia, provide credit to
farmers in the project area by registering as a rural financial intermediary (RFI), and receive
assistance for building its technical and managerial capacity. SWUADA had sought seed capital
money from GOU, but on account of delays in the implementation of the capacity building
program envisaged under an ongoing credit program, no material progress has been made in this
regard.
14.   The small valley dams/tanks component aimed first at rehabilitating existing and then
constructing new, small valley dams and/or tanks. Its implementation performance has been less
than satisfactory. Of the 15 potential sites considered, five were selected and engineering
designs were prepared, but one had to be dropped due to time and budget limitations. However,
no cost-benefit or environmental impact studies were made, contractors could not meet their
deadlines, and one of them failed to comply with the construction specifications. As of October
1996, progress of work ranged from 61 percent to 93 percent toward completion of the four
dams. This component was adversely affected by time constraints and that the same project
staff, supervision consultant and contractors also had to complete concurrently the rural road
component.
15.   Although the Bank's performance at appraisal was generally satisfactory, more attention
should have been given to: (i) the capacity of local staff to implement a multi-sectoral project; (ii)
the complexity of local tendering procedures; (iii) the estimates of the time required to establish
logistics for project implementation and inputs procurement; and (iv) the costing of the rural road
component. From mid-1988 to mid-1996, there were a total of 15 supervision missions which sought
to address the key issues affecting the project's performance by taking these up with the
Government, and directing their efforts towards facilitating project implementation. Continuity of



- vi -
task management in the latter half of the project, combined with participation of Resident Mission
(RM) staff in supervision, as part of a team, contributed to achievement of project objectives. In
addition, the support provided by the RM in screening of disbursement and procurement documents
was greatly appreciated by project management. Until around 1992, Borrower performance was
deficient, especially due to poor project management, inadequate counterpart funding, and failure to
comply with the covenants on accounts and audit. From 1992, the above deficiencies were rectified,
and the Borrower's performance and commitment to the project until completion were
commendable.
16.   Sustainability issues relate principally to assuring continued road maintenance, seed
production and credit. It is noteworthy that GOU has, out of its own resources, provided funding in
FY97 to complete ongoing project activities, including funds for feeder roads' improvement and
maintenance. This is in line with GOU's development priorities. This funding, will, however, not be
adequate to purchase additional roads maintenance equipment sufficient for the six districts. The
benefits of using clean seeds, especially for potatoes, would need further demonstrating to farmers,
and seed production capacity should substantially increase to meet expected demand, and therefore
sustain production. The pilot credit operation could have been continued through SWUADA as an
RFI if GOU had accepted the recommendation of the last supervision mission, whilst remaining
within the framework of its proposed capacity building program for RFIs under existing credit
programs. Because of delays in the operationalization of the modalities agreed between GOU and
the Bank for providing credit to farmers through RFIs, including the capacity building of RFIs,
project sustainability for the above activities is considered uncertain. Adaptive Research and
Extension has been merged with national programs supported by IDA projects, and the sustainability
of this component now relies on the performance of these two projects. Private sector arrangements,
which appear in place throughout the region, have successfully taken over the supply of agricultural
inputs.
17.   Combining with the Government's economic recovery program, SWRARP has thus made a
significant contribution to improving small farmer incomes and welfare. The SAR indicated that the
Economic Rate of Return (ERR), over a 20-year life, was expected to be in excess of 15 percent.
Since continuing benefits will depend greatly on the level of road maintenance, and this is as yet
uncertain, the project's ERR has been reworked over the period to the year 2000. The revised
5
calculations show an ERR of about 17 percent . Designed as a rehabilitation, rather than a
development project, SWRARP has largely achieved its objectives and is rated satisfactory.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
18.   Although the IFAD and IDA co-financing credits were closed by mid-1996, SWRARP
activities will continue during FY97, solely under GOU financing. The operations to be undertaken
by the project during FY97 include road rehabilitation and maintenance, completion of the small
valley dams component, follow up of credit activities, and handing over project activities to their
respective agencies by June 1997.
However, because the project's monitoring and evaluation section failed to measure key indicators adequately
and because it is impossible to clearly separate the project's impact from other changes in the economic
environment, the estimate is far from precise.



- vii -
19.   Key lessons learned are as follows:
(a)  The project recorded impressive achievements in activities such as the road spot
improvement program; the pilot credit scheme; and the community development
scheme. This is largely the result of a strong commitment of the Government (at
central and district levels), which provided the project management team with
good logistical support and allowances.
(b)  Continuity of Bank staff for task management, particularly in the second half of
the project, and close liaison with and involvement of Resident Mission staff in
supervision, as part of a team, contributed to achieving project objectives.
(c)  The setting up of a screening service in the Resident Mission, to initially review
withdrawal applications for disbursements and tender/bid documents for proposed
procurements, towards the end of the project, was greatly appreciated by project
management.
(d)  More attention needs to be devoted to devising satisfactory arrangements for
procurement and making contingency plans at appraisal. Where rapid start-up of
project activities is expected to be crucial to the impact of the project (as in the
case of agricultural input supply and road rehabilitation components), the Bank's
appraisal team should include an experienced project manager who might, in
addition to defining implementation schedules, also set in motion the procurement
process by arranging the preparation of draft tender documents.
(e)  It is recognized that the addition of the Small Valley Dams component towards the
end of the project was based on a decision at the highest level of Government.
Generally, however, when borrowers and lenders agree to add a sizeable
component towards the end of the project, the Bank should make a full assessment
of the capacity of project management and of potential contractors to undertake
the additional works.
(f)  In a project such as SWRARP, Technical Assistance was required to play a crucial
role. In order to limit the risks of excessive turnover of key TA staff, such as the
financial controller, every effort should be made by Government to choose
suitable candidates for key technical assistance posts.
(g)  The adaptive research program gave priority to the screening of exotic, newly
introduced crop varieties. In addition to screening exotic crop varieties,
consideration should be given to local varieties, to their improvement through
proper seed production, and to the possibility for their incorporation in local
breeding programs.
(h)  To yield significant impact, the release of superior crop varieties should be
accompanied by sustainable seed production systems, especially simple, local
farmer-based seed production, as successfully experienced by the project for
potatoes.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SOUTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1869-UG)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The South West Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (SWRARP) quickly followed a
similar Bank/IFAD-funded Agricultural Development Project in eastern Uganda and was intended to
form part of a program to revitalize agriculture in Uganda in the aftermath of many years of internal
disruption. The project's objectives were to increase food production, incomes and living standards
of small farmers in 4 (later divided to become 6) districts6 of the Southwest. The SAR affirmed that
smallholder farming families of the region were poor and should be potential beneficiaries of the
project. As formulated in the SAR, the project included the following components:
(a)    Adaptive Research and Extension for rehabilitating two District Farm Institutes
(DFI) and improving the facilities of research sub-stations; and for strengthening
adaptive research and extension through provision of vehicles, equipment, technical
assistance, training and operating costs.
(b)   Agricultural Input Supply for the procurement and sale of small, priority
agricultural inputs; for the procurement of vehicles, material or equipment to
strengthen marketing infrastructure; and for establishing a warehouse at Mbarara.
(c)    Rural Access Roads, including a program of rehabilitation and spot repairs on 2,000
km of rural roads; and the provision of plant, equipment, incremental operating costs
and in-service training for staff of the Ministry of Local Government (MOLG).
(d)    Project Management to enable the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to coordinate
implementation and administer a Community Development Fund.
(e)    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) to bring together information on project
implementation and evaluate impact.
2.    During implementation, IFAD further elaborated proposals for Community Development in
order to give greater support to group formation and training. This was then regarded as a separate
component, although there was no change to IFAD's loan agreement. Farm credit was originally
intended to be provided through separate on-going programs, but when this proved to be unworkable
6  At appraisal, the project area consisted of four districts (Mbarara, Bushenyi, Kabale and Rukungiri); two
additional districts were created during implementation within the same area: Kisoro and Ntungamo.



- 2 -
for the assisted groups, a Pilot Credit Sub-component (under Community Development) was
incorporated into an amendment of the IFAD loan agreement in mid-1992. Following a request
from GOU at the highest level in 1994, an agreement was reached to include the construction of a
number of small valley dams within IFAD's loan agreement. Thus, the project finally implemented
7 components.
3.    At project appraisal, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita had fallen by 40 percent
since 1970, and war and insecurity had devastated the rural economy. In the project area, some 20
percent of the 2,700 km rural road network was considered to be impassable and 40 percent was
passable only in the dry season. Marketing, input distribution channels, and agricultural support
services had largely disintegrated. Project design was thus directed mainly towards rehabilitation of
key infrastructure (roads - 48 percent of project costs) and restoration of supply of agricultural
inputs (30 percent of project costs), with smaller allocations for the Adaptive Research and
Extension component and community development.
4.    The original project objectives and design were appropriate and responsive to the region's
priority needs in the late 1980s. However, the Economic Recovery Program launched in 1987 and
the associated Liberalization Program led to a rapid improvement in the economic conditions in the
project area. As both the national and local economies revived, project design was rightly adjusted
from strict rehabilitation towards more long-term development objectives. The Community
Development component and Pilot Credit Sub-component were designed to strengthen efforts aimed
at core project-objectives by providing direct support to small farmers through groups. Inclusion of
the Small Valley Dam component extended the scope of the project to livestock sector development.
Although this directed support to areas of the region which would otherwise have benefited only
marginally from other project interventions, the addition of this component near the end of the
project appears to have diverted project efforts away from core project objectives rather than
contributing to them. The combination of both infrastructure and agricultural support components,
totaling 7 in all, under a single Project Coordination Unit under the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF), which was located regionally at Mbarara, overstretched local
management capacity. This led to liaison problems with the Ministry of Local Government
(MOLG), which was implementing the Roads component, during the first half of the project period.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
5.    Overview. The project became effective in August 1988, but implementation was slow until
the MTR in 1992. Interventions were limited to adaptive research and extension (in 7 priority
counties), (Map 1) training, and the procurement and resale of some agricultural inputs. From 1992,
the project took off, with a substantial part of activities being achieved during the last three years
before completion. As of 1993/94, the Adaptive Research and Extension Component was transferred
to two other IDA-funded projects (para 22).
6.    Adaptive Research and Extension. The adaptive research sub-component was designed to
address small farmer needs, with emphasis on the region's major food crops. In 1989, research
priorities were identified by the project, by conducting farmers' surveys, as lack of improved
varieties, pests and diseases, declining soil fertility and inferior agricultural practices. The project
carried out on-station and on-farm, trials, with major areas of emphasis being the introduction of
exotic germplasm, screening and release of promising varieties of Irish and sweet potatoes, beans,
maize, wheat and short term upland rice. However, for these crops, little emphasis was given to



- 3 -
improving seed quality of and/or regenerating suitable local varieties, and to improving crop
management. The project also improved local technologies for banana weevil control and soil
conservation. The Extension Sub-component was intended to revive the extension services in the
project area. The project provided in-service training and logistic support and field allowances for
staff, and equipment for the DFIs located in Bushenyi and Kabale Districts. The project also enabled
extension staff to train direct project beneficiaries (i.e., farmer groups) and other farmers, through
their regular activities. Some 470 farmer day courses were organized by the project, mainly at DFIs.
However, the two DFIs have not yet been rehabilitated (now to be financed under another project,
para 22), and appear to be largely under-utilized.
7.     The project contributed substantially to reviving agricultural research activities and restoring
extension services in the project area. The salient outcome of this component is the release and wide
adoption of superior Irish potato varieties in Zone 1 (Map 1) and, in Zone 2, the development and
adoption of improved banana husbandry practices requiring minimal pesticide applications and
reported to effectively limit weevil attacks, while increasing yields'. The lack of seed production
capacity and related development initiatives in the project area have generally limited the adoption
of the released improved varieties, except for Irish potatoes, for which the project supported seed
production by contracting groups or individual farmers. The benefits of using clean seeds, and the
need to renew potato seed regularly has, however, to be further demonstrated to farmers and seed
production capacity should substantially increase to meet expected demand.
8.     Agricultural Input Supply. The SAR identified lack of inputs, and the scarcity of foreign
exchange to procure them, as a key constraint to agricultural production in the region, and proposed
the importation of about US$5.6 million worth of inputs for wholesale distribution over 5 years
(1989-1993). The total value of inputs procured between 1990 and 1993 was US$3.0 million,
equivalent to 58 percent of SAR estimates. However, the Mbarara warehouse could not be
constructed in time to receive the first purchases, and it was never built, as alternative solutions
became available (renting storage space). Expenditure on agricultural inputs was lower than forecast
because: (i) the size of early orders was reduced due to lack of storage capacity; (ii) delays in
procurement tended to have a domino effect which, together with difficulties in selling stocks,
limited the number of purchases which could be completed; (iii) it proved unnecessary for the
project to import certain materials (e.g., construction materials and vehicles) which were readily
available in the project area; and (iv) by the time the last purchases took place in 1993, the private
sector was active and had its own access to foreign exchange. Despite these shortcomings, and being
overtaken by events, the Agricultural Input Supply Component did, nevertheless, have a positive
impact by supplying inputs when they were sorely needed early in the project. It also facilitated the
establishment of retailers in the region by providing them with stocks at a time when business was
brisk.
9.     Rural Access Road Rehabilitation. The initial objective was to rehabilitate and spot repair
2,000 Iam, using contractors over a 3-year period, in order to permit year-round access. Substantial
delays were incurred in selecting consultants to identify the roads and sections to be rehabilitated,
7   It has been assumed that, for farmers living within easy reach of project roads, the rate of adoption of banana
and potato technologies is in the order of 30 percent, yield increases 20 to 30 percent, and area increases 10
percent to 20 percent.
8   Including basic tools, sprayers, vegetables seeds, chemicals, wheelbarrows and bicycles.



- 4 -
and to conduct the feasibility study (para 24). The consultants found that, because costs had been
underestimated at appraisal and further road deterioration had taken place in the interim, the target
for rehabilitation would have to be reduced from 2,000 km to around 500 km of first priority roads.
Moreover, these roads could only be restored to dry weather status. The partial rehabilitation of first
priority roads was undertaken by two contractors between mid-1994 and mid-1996, focusing mainly
on impassable sections. At project completion, 488 km of contract roads had been rehabilitated
(Map 1).
10.   The road maintenance plant and equipment were acquired in early 1992. This equipment
was initially distributed in four units, one for each of the initial project districts. The equipment
included: motorgraders, wheel loaders, dump trucks, vibratory rollers, vehicles and assorted
equipment for 4 mechanical workshops. The total cost amounted to about US$2.2 million. In order
to reduce the shortfall resulting from the target reduction and to speed-up progress, it was agreed
between GOU and IDA in early 1992 to use the road maintenance equipment for spot improvement
of 1,000 km of feeder roads. Although project equipment was used for work for which it was not
originally intended, and therefore depreciated faster than anticipated, it contributed substantially to
the improvement of the rural road network in the project area. As of October 1996, some 1,060 km
of roads had been spot improved (Map 1). Despite the reduction in road standard and the reduced
length of roads improved (about 1,550 vs 2,000 km), the component appears to have substantially
achieved its objectives.
11.   Community Development. The objective of this component was to promote and train
groups, giving emphasis to women group members. The number of groups in the project area had
risen from 218 in Project Year (PY) I to well over 500 by the end of the project, with some 65
percent women members. Many received training in day and residential courses at DFIs through
which both technical and managerial skills were imparted. Over 70 groups have been assisted
through grants for building materials, inputs and equipment. In addition, selected members of 15
women's groups received grants of a heifer for zero-grazing, whose female descendants are in turn
being donated to other group members. Beneficiary groups are, in general, spread throughout the
region although, from the mission's visits, it would appear that many of the heifers were donated to
the more prosperous members of groups near towns (Map 2).
12.   Pilot Credit Scheme. The revolving credit fund (US$414,000) started in late 1993. Funds
have been lent to groups for on-lending to members, generally for 6 months, but sometimes up to a
12-month term. Using reflows, 373 loans totaling US$ 1.01 million have been made to 241 groups
and around 3,000 to 4,000 individual group members, of whom more than 40 percent are women.
Beneficiary groups have tended to be clustered in a small number of locations (Map 2). Most loans
have been used to finance labor for crop production, especially banana rehabilitation, but also for
trading, livestock enterprises, and other income-generating enterprises such as beekeeping and
mushroom growing. The value of individual loans commonly ranges between US$100 and US$500
with a maximum of US$1000. Interest rates have varied between 17 percent and 26 percent p.a. and
were generally positive in real terms. The pilot Credit Scheme (CS) must, overall, be considered a
success in that it has played an important role in fostering enterprise and demonstrating income-
generating activities in rural areas. The project team has also shown that it is possible to achieve
repayment rates exceeding 80 percent, rarely achieved among small farmers in Uganda. It is notable
that this was a program of Ugandan design, implemented by determined and concerted efforts of
many different local authorities. While the administrative costs of CS were relatively high, it can
nevertheless serve as a model for the future provision of credit to farmers, given the present



- 5 -
reluctance of commercial banks accredited under ongoing credit programs to open rural branches
and onlend to farmers.
13.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Overall, the M&E unit performance fell short of its
objectives. The unit carried out baseline, mid-term and final household surveys and thematic surveys
which provide valuable information on project impact. However, due mainly to shortage of local
staff (already redeployed), reluctance to utilize available TA and financial resource constraints, the
final household survey was simplified, and does not provide quantitative data on agricultural
production which could be compared with the results of the 1989 baseline survey. The unit did not
carry out regular financial (cost) monitoring. Although recommended in the mid-term review, low
priority was given to the monitoring of agricultural activities, cropping surveys were not undertaken,
and no analysis was carried out on the financial viability or impact on labor requirements of the
recommended crop packages and income generating activities.
14.   Small Valley Dams/Tank. This component aimed first at rehabilitating existing and then
constructing new, small valley dams and/or tanks. The valley dams and tanks are intended to reduce
water shortages for both livestock and human consumption and hence reduce nomadism. Of the 15
potential sites considered, 4 valley dams and 1 valley tank were selected and engineering designs
were prepared, but one had to be dropped due to time and budget limitations. However, no cost-
benefit or environmental impact studies were made. Contractors could not meet the deadline, and
one of them failed to comply with the construction specifications. As of October 1996, progress of
work ranged from 61 percent to 93 percent toward completion. This component was adversely
affected by the time constraint imposed by its late inclusion in the project relative to the closure of
the project. This was exacerbated by the fact that the same project staff, supervision consultant and
contractors also had to complete concurrently the rural road component.
15.   Financial and Economic Objectives. Actual project costs are estimated at about US$26
million, or about 95 percent of SAR estimates (Part II, Table 8). Investment costs were lower than
forecast (US$12.6 million as against US$19.3 million at appraisal), principally because of shortfalls
in civil works, especially roads contracts (55 percent of SAR estimates) and the agricultural inputs
component (45 percent of SAR estimates). Recurrent costs were higher (US$13.5 million as against
US$8.1 million), mainly due to greater expenditure on operating costs attributed to the PCU (US$3.2
million as against US$0.2 million), Technical Assistance (US$4.0 million as against US$3.3 million)
and Overseas Training (US$1.0 million as against less than US$ 0.1 million).
16.   There were severe shortfalls in the Government's counterpart contribution up until 1992.
Total counterpart contribution has, however, amounted to the equivalent of about US$3.9 million
(compared to US$5.1 million at appraisal, including taxes) of which 40 percent was from the
Special Inputs Fund, 14 percent from MAAIF, and 44 percent from MOLG (US$0.9 million USAID
contribution and US$0.8 million MOLG budget). Had the input supply component been
implemented earlier and in full, it would have generated significantly higher GOU revenues and
could have eased the shortage of counterpart funds in the project's early years.
17.   The SAR indicated that the economic rate of return (ERR) of the adaptive research and
extension and road components over a 20-year life was expected to be in excess of 15 percent.
Benefits were estimated for transport cost savings and predicted yield increases over virtually the



-6 -
whole range of food crops. Project benefits have now been re-assessed9 based on: (i) the numbers of
farmers living within easy reach of SWRARP improved roads (estimated at 175,000); (ii) estimates
on yield and cropped area increases; and (iii) the benefits from income-generating activities,
additional trade and employment, and transport cost savings. The revised calculations show an ERR
of roughly 17 percent (see Part II, Table 9).
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
18.   General. The project's implementation has coincided with a long period of peace and
political stability which allowed free movement of people and goods. The Economic Recovery
Program launched in 1987, and the associated liberalization program, resulted in sustained GDP
growth ranging from 3 percent to 8.5 percent per year, and led to a rapid improvement in economic
conditions in the project area.
19.   Project Management. During the first years, the lack of experience of newly-appointed
staff in project management led to difficulties in initiating and coordinating project activities. Rapid
turnover of key TA staff (para 21) also contributed to the early implementation problems which
might have been solved earlier, if GOU and the Bank had taken prompt, decisive action. Given the
initial difficulties of transport and telecommunication, the PCU in Mbarara was isolated from
MAAIF (Entebbe), and MOLG, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Bank's office in Kampala.
This resulted in substantial delays in project implementation, especially for roads (para 24).
Restructuring of the project at the time of the MTR (May 1992) and positive changes in senior
project management in 1992, greatly contributed to overall project achievements.
20.   Counterpart Funding. At appraisal, assurances were given that Governnent would provide
sufficient local funds to support project execution. Counterpart funding was to have been boosted by
use of revenues from sales of agricultural inputs under the project. However, Government budgetary
allocations were not fulfilled and funds from input sales were not used until 1992 because of delays,
misunderstandings and administrative problems. Demand for local funds for project execution in the
early years was much higher than anticipated because disbursements were held up by procedural
problems associated with lack of proper accounting by project staff and the unfamiliarity of project
management with Bank procedures.
21.   Technical Assistance. Some 340 person-months of long and short term TA were financed
under the project. The main fields of assistance included civil engineering, financial control, input
supply, adaptive research and extension. Due to failure to fulfill his mandate, the financial controller
had to be replaced twice over less than three years, which contributed to the initial difficulties in
setting up an acceptable financial system and in keeping proper accounts. Towards the end of the
project, Project Management considered that there was no need to use the available balance of 5
person-months TA to support M&E activities. The absence of external assistance during that period
may, however, have contributed to the problems reported on the last surveys carried out by the M&E
unit (para 13).
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9  However, because the project's M&E unit failed to measure key indicators adequately and because it is
impossible to clearly separate the project's impact from other changes in the economic environment, the
estimate is far from precise.



- 7 -
22.   Transfer of Adaptive Research and Extension Activities. During 1993/94, following
MAAIF restructuring and the approval of an IDA-funded Agricultural Research and Training Project
(ARTP) and an Agricultural Extension Project (AEP), project research and extension activities were
transferred to the then newly-created National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO) and to
AEP, respectively. On-station/on-farm research has been pursued in the project area for Irish
potatoes, wheat, banana and agro-forestry/soil conservation (funded by NARO and donors). The
transfer of extension activities to the districts, which assumed responsibility for implementation of
activities following decentralization, and budgetary constraints has reportedly resulted in some
dilution of activities, especially in respect to staff allowances and mobility.
23.   Staff Versus Farmer Training. Although the Training budget in the SAR was limited, an
ambitious training program abroad was set-up for project staff and district extension staff. The
project supported more than 40 short courses and 18 MSc degree courses, of which seven were in
extension/education, four in agronomy/ crop protection and seven in economics/management. This
led to rather significant short- to long-term absences of senior staff in charge of project and
extension activities. Moreover, investment in staff training greatly exceeded those in farmer training,
the latter suffering from the delays in restoring DFI capacity and, towards the end of the project, the
lack of funds at the district extension offices.
24.   Delays in the Rural Road Component. From the beginning of project implementation, this
component suffered from chronic delays (para 7). The contract for road rehabilitation started in May
1994, was delayed by almost four years, and was due to be completed by the end of the project (June
1996). A number of factors contributed to the delays in appointing the consultant engineers, the
supervision engineers and the contractors. These include: (i) inadequate cost estimate at appraisal
resulting in the need to modify the component activities, and having it endorsed by the relevant
national authorities and IDA; (ii) poor communication between the project in Mbarara, MAAIF in
Entebbe, and MOLG and MOF in Kampala; (iii) unfamiliarity of project management with MOLG
and IDA procedures, leading to the need to re-formulate proposals and tenders; (iv) lack of
counterpart funds and/or delays in releasing them; and (v) limited capacity of available road
contractors who were requested to complete work under pressure, and in some cases being also
contracted for other project works (small valley dams). Initial delays also resulted in further road
deterioration, which meant further adjustment to the component design and costing. In addition, one
contractor could not fulfill his contract, which was partially handed over to a second contractor. In
undertaking the additional work, the second contractor was obliged to subcontract to other local
contractors. Part of the additional work was undertaken by project management under force account.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.   Adaptive Research and Extension, one of the field components, has been merged with
national programs supported by IDA projects (ARTP and AEP). Therefore, the sustainability of this
component relies on the performance of these two projects. In this respect, priority should be given
to developing farmer-based seed production for both local and recently released varieties.
Agricultural Input Supply was intended to be taken over by the private sector. This took place
spontaneously during the course of the project and satisfactory private sector arrangements appear to
be in place. Private suppliers of agricultural and veterinary inputs operate in centers throughout the
region.



- 8 -
26.   Maintenance of roads rehabilitated by contractors and by the project is imperative, but
only a few roads have undergone routine maintenance so far. GOU now gives the highest priority to
road maintenance, and increased its budget allocation for rural roads almost four-fold in FY97.
However, this is still below the country's requirements, and districts are not able to match MOLG
allocations as is required. Road maintenance equipment purchased under the project for 4 district
units has been spread over the 6 district units (see para 1). The Government is in the process of
procuring additional equipment worth US$ 4 million for the whole country, of which some will be
for the project area, but this will still not raise the districts' maintenance capabilities to the level
originally intended by the Bank. Other measures which would contribute to improved road
maintenance, especially in Zone 1 (Map 1), include limiting land slide incidence by persuading
farmers to adopt soil conservation practices, limiting axle loads of lorries, and rehabilitating trunk
roads. The shortage of equipment and insufficient local funding may hamper the sustainability of
part of the rehabilitation undertaken by the project.
27.   Sustainability of small valley dams/tank will first depend on the contractor's performance
to complete the on-going works. It will also depend on the degree of organization of Water Users'
Associations (WUAs) and how well they manage to raise funds from members and support from
local authorities to maintain/protect the site environment in general and the dam structure and related
equipment in particular. However, WUAs have not yet demonstrated their capacity to manage their
new assets.
28.   The project was asked to terminate its credit activities from mid-February 1996, and only
loan recovery activities have been pursued. Funds recovered are to be transferred by SWRARP to
the Bank of Uganda. In January 1996, the South West Uganda Agricultural Development Agency
(SWUADA) was established as an NGO. Among its intended activities, SWUADA will provide
credit to its members, along the lines of the project credit component. The last supervision mission
recommended in July 1996 that GOU consider giving some seed capital (Ush. 100 million) to
SWUADA, and based on legal safeguards, consider it for inclusion in the Rural Financial
Intermediary (RFI) Capacity Building Program, proposed under the IDA-supported Cotton Subsector
Development Project. In light of proposed GOU policy for providing credit to farmers through RFIs,
SWUADA would become a financial intermediary between commercial banks and farmers. If
SWUADA is to successfully take over the credit scheme in a sustainable manner, it must: (i) reduce
the cost of loan management and maintain high recovery rates (para 12); (ii) be registered as a
financial intermediary under the awaited new GOU policy; and (iii) receive assistance for building
its technical and managerial capacity. On account of delays in the operationalization of the capacity
building program of RFIs, however, no progress has been made in this regard. In light of above
factors, sustainability of all project activities is judged as uncertain at this stage.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
29.   Although the Bank's performance at appraisal was generally satisfactory, more attention
should have been given to: (i) the capacity of local staff to implement a multi-sectoral project; (ii)
the complexity of local tendering procedures; (iii) the estimates of the time required to establish
logistics for project implementation and input procurement; and (iv) the costing of the rural road
component. From mid-1988 to mid-1996, there were a total of 15 supervision missions including the
mid-term review (1992). During the initial years, there was a relatively high turnover of Bank staff
working on the project, which had four task managers. Continuity of task management in the latter
half, combined with involvement of Resident Mission (RM) staff in the supervision missions, as part



- 9 -
of a team (the role of task manager was alternated between headquarter and resident mission staff for
a year or so), contributed to the achievement of project objectives. The supervision missions sought
to address the key issues affecting the project's performance by taking these up with the
Government, and directing their efforts towards facilitating project implementation. In particular, the
Bank's prompt action on agreeing on a variation order on road contracts in the last year was crucial
to the progress of that component. The performance of the minor project components might,
however, have been improved if the Bank had provided more technical supervision. The support of
the Uganda RM was greatly appreciated by project management, especially the instigation of a
financial screening service for claims and, towards the end of the project, assistance with
procurement procedures.
30.   Around 45% of all disbursements occurred during FY95 and FY96, corresponding to the
project extension periods. Although two extensions had already been approved, at the end of FY96,
the project was operating at full steam to complete, under time pressure, the lately added small
valley dam component and the rural road rehabilitation program. At the end of the project, it was
also necessary to further support the pilot credit scheme until the new GOU policy on rural credit
became effective. However, rather than considering an exceptional third extension (the credit was
not exhausted), the Bank and IFAD decided to close the loans.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
31.   Borrower performance can broadly be divided into two periods. Until around 1992,
Borrower performance was deficient, especially in that: (i) it appointed an inexperienced project
management team which failed to initiate project activities; (ii) there was poor coordination between
the project team and the various institutions concerned (MAAIF, MOLG and MOF); (iii) it only met,
and with delays, a marginal part of its counterpart funding commitment; and (iv) it did not comply
with the covenants on accounts and audit. From 1992, the above deficiencies were gradually
rectified, and the Borrower's performance and commitment to the project, particularly following
agreements reached with the Bank's MTR mission on financial control and management,
deployment of feeder road units, tender for main roads' contract, performance allowances, and
finalization of the design of the credit component, until completion were commendable. In
particular, the project recorded major achievements under the following activities: (i) the rural road
spot improvement program; (ii) the pilot rural credit scheme; and (iii) the Community Development
scheme. Better collaboration with local authorities also resulted in enhanced political and
administrative support from the district, and the Inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee played an
increasingly effective role.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
32.   It is difficult to assess the impact of SWRARP alone in the project area because of the
overall economic changes during the period, complementary development interventions, and
because of the shortage of data. Also, a large part of the road rehabilitation program has been
completed only recently and some of its potential impact has not yet been realized. The mission
believes, however, that the project's overall impact has been substantial and positive. Mission
estimates suggest that at least 175,000 rural families, equivalent to around one million people
benefited from project activities. The road program has already generated an increase in general
economic activity and agricultural production through opening previously impassable roads to traffic
and reducing transport costs. This has been verified by surveys showing increased traffic volumes



- 10-
on both feeder and trunk roads in the area. It is also supported by a survey carried out by a research
team of NARO'0 claiming that, over the last 10 years, the share of the project area in the
Kampala/Entebbe cooking-banana market increased from 40 percent to 80 percent. Together with
improved access to markets, improvements in crop productivity resulting from the Adaptive
Research and Extension component (especially of bananas and Irish potatoes) have boosted farmers'
incomes and food availability almost region-wide. This has been confirmed in the final household
survey, measured by the increased number of assets acquired by project beneficiaries. The
Community Development and Credit component has had a more localized impact on income and
nutrition through its promotion of diversified enterprises and by fostering local management
capacity. It may, however, have had the effect of further concentrating, rather than spreading, the
distribution of resources in some rural communities.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
33.   Although the IFAD Loan and IDA Credit were closed by mid-1996, SWRARP activities will
continue during FY97, solely under GOU financing. This is commendable and reflects the GOU's
interest in completing ongoing project activities. The Government's decision to extend its support
was also made in the hope that a follow-on projectl proposal would be considered by the Bank and
IFAD. Eventually, the proposal was not considered, as the Bank and IFAD are now moving towards
other lending instruments such as the Agriculture Sector Management Project and possibly an
Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP), rather than individual projects.
34.   The operations to be undertaken by the project during FY97 concern mainly the following:
(i) additional feeder road rehabilitation (spot improvement of 300 km), maintenance of project-
rehabilitated roads, and follow-up of the work to be undertaken under the defects liability period for
the contract roads; (ii) completion of the small valley dam/tank component; and (iii) loan balance
collection (USh 350 million), credit group training, and provision of training and managerial
assistance to SWUADA. Since the PCU is planned to be dismantled by June 1997, future operations
will also be directed towards handing over project activities to their respective agencies.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35.   Key lessons learned are as follows:
(a)  The project recorded impressive achievements in activities such as the road spot
improvement program; the pilot credit scheme; and the community development
scheme. This is largely the result of a strong commitment of the Government (at
both central and local levels), which provided the project management team with
good logistical support and allowances.
Communication from the Banana-based Cropping Systems Research program of NARO.
t Project proposal for the South-Western Uganda Agricultural Development Project (SWUADP), prepared by
the Agricultural Planning Department of MAAIF (June 1996).



(b)  Continuity of Bank staff for task management, particularly in the second half of
the project, and close liaison with and involvement of Resident Mission staff in
supervision, as part of a team, contributed to achieving project objectives.
(c)  The setting up of a screening service in the Resident Mission, to initially review
withdrawal applications for disbursements and tender/bid documents for proposed
procurements, towards the end of the project, was greatly appreciated by project
management.
(d)  More attention  needs to  be devoted to  devising  satisfactory  logistical
arrangements and making contingency plans at appraisal. Where rapid start-up of
project activities is expected to be crucial to the impact of the project (as in the
case of agricultural input supply and road rehabilitation components), the Bank's
appraisal team should include an experienced project manager who might, in
addition defining implementation schedules, also set in motion the procurement
process by arranging the preparation of draft tender documents.
(e)  It is recognized that the addition of the Small Valley Dams component towards the
end of the project was based on a decision at the highest level of Government.
Generally, however, when borrowers and lenders agree to add a sizeable
component such as the Small Valley Dams component towards the end of the
project, the Bank should make a full assessment of the capacity of project
management and of potential contractors to undertake the additional works.
(f)  In a project such as SWRARP, Technical Assistance was required to play a crucial
role. In order to limit the risks of excessive turnover of key, expatriate TA staff,
such as the financial controller, every effort should be made by Government to
choose suitable candidates for key technical assistance posts.
(g)  The adaptive research program gave priority to the screening of exotic, newly
introduced crop varieties. In addition to screening exotic crop varieties,
consideration should be given to local varieties, to their improvement through
proper seed production, and to the possibility for their incorporation in local
breeding programs.
(h)  To yield significant impact, the release of superior crop varieties should be
accompanied by sustainable seed production systems, especially simple, local
farmer-based seed production, as successfully experienced by the project for
potatoes..



- 12-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement ofobjectives         SubstaPtial a             Negligible  NotApplicable
O)        O~(1)       (O)O
Macro policies                     Li           ED                         [
Sector policies                     Li                           i         [ E
Financial objectives               [z]           Li           Ei            Li
Institutional development           Ei                        Li           EJ]
Physical objectives                 FI]                       Li            Li
Poverty reduction                   Li                           i          L i
Gender issues                                    Li           Li            Li
Other social objectives             L]i                                    ED
Environmental objectives            Li             i                          i E
Public sector management            Li                        Li            Li
Private sector development          Li          1?]           Li            Li
Other (specify)                     Li             i          L             L
B. Jroject shinnbiiLX              Likldy       Unlikely    Uncerain
O)       ~(I          O~,)
C. Rnk                          sats&cW       Satsn        Deficient
(1/)         (1)          (I)
Identification                         L                         Li
Preparation assistance                   i         [  
Appra                                  Li                        Li
Supervision                            L           [             L



- 13 -
D. Borrower performance               satisfacto=    Satisfactory   Deficien
(1)            (O)          (1)
Preparation                                 Z             E ]
Implementation                             D             T             E
Covenant compliance                                                    L] E1
Opeation (if applicable)                  [EI           7I
Ew                                              HWihlv
E. Assessmentofoutcome              satisfa        Satisfact      Unsatisfactory   uatbsa
D/    D/)  )
O   [E    O                                  Ol



- 14 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpose              Year of       Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
0983-UG                          First Reconstruction Program      1980      Completed
1252-UG                          Second Reconstruction Program    1982       Completed
1474-UG                          Third Reconstruction Program     1984       Completed
1328-UG                         Agricultural Rehabilitation       1983       Completed
Project
1434-UG                          Second Technical Assistance      1983       Completed
1539-UG                          Agricultural Development Project    1985    Completed
1824-UG                          Forestry Rehabilitation          1987       Completed
1893-UG                          Sugar Rehabilitation             1988       Completed
Following Effectiveness of
SWRARP
2176-UG                          Livestock Services                1990       Ongoing
2190-UG                          Agricultural Sector Adjustment    1990       Ongoing
Credit
2362-UG                          Northern Reconstruction           1992       Ongoing
2424-UG                          Agricultural Extension            1992       Ongoing
2446-UG                          Agricultural Research & Training  1993       Ongoing
2609-UG                          Cotton Subsector Development      1994       Ongoing
2845-UG                          Agricultural Sector Management    1996       Awaiting
effectiveness



- 15 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actuaV
Steps in project cycle           Date planned      Latest estimate
Identificationa/                                               Jan/Feb 1984
Preparation"'                                                March/April 1985
Pre-appraisal                                                  Oct/Nov 1986
Appraisal                                  May/June 1987      May/June 1987
Negotiations                                 Nov. 1987          Nov 1987
Board presentation                           Dec. 1987           Jan 1988
Signing                                      Feb 1988           Feb 1988
Effectiveness                                May 1988           Aug 1988
Project completion                           Dec. 1993           Feb 1996
Credit closing                               June 1994          June 1996
a/ Carried out by IFAD.
bI Carried out by the FAO Investment Center on behalf of IFAD.



-16-
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)1/
87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97
Cumulative
SAR Estimate    0.8    3.6    8.1   13.3   18.0   21.1   22.3
IDA              0.1    1.0    3.0    5.5    7.9    9.5   10.0
IFAD2'           0.7    2.6    5.1    7.8   10.1   11.6   12.3
Actual3'
IDA                0      0   0.10   0.40   2.08   3.46   3.87   6.53   9.98  10.09
IFAD               0      0   0.65    1.67   3.03   5.13   8.09  10.03  11.28  11.53
SOF (Grant)                    0.19   0.22   0.22   0.22   0.29   0.29   0.29   0.29
TOTAL           0.00   0.00   0.95   2.29   5.33   8.81  12.25  16.85  21.55  21.90
0%     0%    12%    17%    30%    42%    55%    76%    97%    98%
" Small discrepancies due to use of differing exchange rates and rounding.
21 Including SOF Grant (USS 0.3 million).
3/ Date of final disbursement: July 19, 1996.



- 17-
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
PART l: Key Implementation
Indicators as per SAR
INDICATOR                       Unit   Estimated   Actual
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Disbursement by Donor
IDA Credit                                     SDR M            7.6     7.1
IFAD loan                                      SDR M           9.1      7.8
IFAD Special Operation Facility (grant)         US$ M           0.3     0.3
alue of Agricultural inputs procured            US $ M          5.6     3.
alue of Sales versus Procured                     %             100      80
PHYSICAL INDICATORS
Staff housing units constructed                    No              4       3
Office units constructed:
SWRARP Mbarara Office Block                      m2              0      250
DAO Rukungiri Office Block                       m2             80       80
Storage units constructed
Mbarara Warehouse                                m2           1500        0
Kalengyere Store                                 m2             60       60
Rubare Store                                     m2             80       60
Training units (DFIs) Renovated                    No              2       0
Training unit (DFIs) Re-equipped                   No              2       2
ehicles
Staff vehicles Procured                          No             30       42
Staff Motorcycles Procured                       No             34       51
Staff Bicycles Procured                          No            242       7
Rural Access Roads Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation to Year Round Access Condition     Km          2000        0
Rehabilitation to dry weather conditions (contractors)  Km        0     488
Spot improvement by SWRARP Direct Labor Units     Km              0    1060



- 18 -
INDICATOR                       Unit   Estimated   Actual
Procurement of Road Maintenance Plants & Equipment
SWRARP Procured plants and Equipment:
Motorgraders 120 HP                              No              8        8
Wheel loaders 80 HP                              No              4        4
Dumptrucks 8 ton                                 No             16       16
4WD pickups                                      No              8        8
Vibro roller                                     No              4        4
Motor cycles 125 cc                              No              4        4
Bicycles                                         No             40        0
ILO procured plants and Equipment:
Crane truck                                      No              0        1
Self loader                                      No              0        1
Water loader                                     No              0        1
Vibro roller                                     No              0        5
Dozer                                            No              0        2
Fuel bowser                                      No              0        1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Project Expediter                              Pers-M            3        3
Financial Controller                           Pers-M           36      42
Input Supply Manager                           Pers-M           36      46
Adaptive Research Specialist                   Pers-M           36       42
Extension & Training Specialist                Pers-M           36       36
Monitoring & Evaluation Advisor                Pers-M           24       19
Input Procurement Agent (contracted to UCB)    Months           60       60
Input Procurement Agent (intern. consulting firm)  Pers-M        0       12
Rural Road Inventory (intern. consulting firm, contract) Months  7        5
Supervision of Feeder Roads (intern. consulting firm)  Pers-M   na       47
Design of Project Buildings (intern. consulting firm)    Pers-M  4        4
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH AND EXTENSION ACTIVITIES
Number of Extension Staff                          No            244     292
Proportion of female extension staff               %              10      14
Number of trials established                       No                    291
Extension Packages produced                        No                      5
gricultural Extension Training:
Farmer training (day courses held until 1994)    No                    473
Farmers Trained (until 1994)                  Pers-days      -        16152
Technology Adoption Rate (over total farm population)  %      8          n.a.



- 19-
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
PART II: Modified Key Implementation Indicators
INDICATOR                           Unit  Estimate   Actual
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Design of Credit sub-component                          Pers-M         6        6
Expediter of Credit sub-component                       Pers-M        12       18
Design of Small Valley Dam/Tank Component               Pers-M        na        2
TRAINING
Skills acquired by District Extension Staff
MSc/MA degree                                             No           0       10
Diploma                                                   No           0        2
Short Courses Abroad                                      No           0       25
Skills acquired by Project Staff
MSc/MA degree                                             No           0        8
Diploma                                                   No           0        2
Short Course Abroad                                       No           0       15
PILOT CREDIT SCHEME
Amount to be disbursed                                    USh M        394     394
Recovery Rate (excluding on-going phases IX-XI)             %          100  76-100
Number of Women                                             %           30      43
SMALL VALLEY DAMS/TANK
Dam Rehabilitation                                         No            1        1
Dam Construction                                           No            3       2
Tank Construction                                           No           1        1
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
L  Key Operating Indicators
in SAR/President's Report      Estimated                  Actual
not applicable



- 20 -
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
|.      Study           Done By               Purpose                           Status                           Impact
1.1 Baseline and        SWRARP  establish a benchmark for monitoring conducted in 1990; final report  as per M&E purposes
Household Surveys             and evaluation (M&E), and design   issued in 1992
research & extension activities
1.2 Mid-term            SWRARP  monitoring and evaluation          conducted and report issued in 1992   used for M&E and mid-term review
Household Surveys
1.3 Final               SWRARP  project impact assessment         conducted in 1995; report issued in  limited due to methodology changes,
Household Surveys                                               1996                             qualitative information on project
impact
2. Roads Inventory Study  Consulting produce roads inventory and   conducted from Dec 89 to April 90;   re-design component; reduce SAR
Company  prepare tender documents         report submitted early 1991      target for contract rehabilitation
from 2,000 to less than 500 km
3. Road Traffic Surveys   SWRARP  assess changes in traffic and    seven surveys were carried out during identification of key feeder roads, and
commodities transported         project implementation           sources and outlets of commodities
4. Inputs-Market Surveys  SWRARP  accumulate market data on inputs,  ten surveys conducted throughout    better understanding of market
agric. produce and household goods  project life; reports issued  changes and project impact
5. Privatization of     Consulting advise on methodology and timing for carried out and report issued in 1992  recommendations found inadequate
Input Sales          Company  privatization
6. Cropping Surveys         -     collect quantitative data on crop  not undertaken                 NIL
prod. for assessing project impact
7. Extension Staff Survey  SWRARP  assess extension staff resources    two surveys, done in 1989 and 1992  adjustment of staff allocation and
and status throughout the project                                training requirements
8. Beneficiary Contact    SWRARP  determine the diffusion of       carried out and report issued in 1994  useful information on project impact
Survey                         extension messages                                                on farmers' groups
9. Adaptive Research and  SWRARP  assess the impact of adaptive    Done and report issued in 1995  limited indications on adoption rates
Extension Assessment            research and extension activities                                of project-promoted technologies
10. Impact Assessment    SWRARP  assess the effect of credit on   completed and report issued in 1995  identification of mechanisms for
of Credit                      beneficiaries                                                     effective credit delivery
11. Valley Dam          Consultant identify sites for valley dam/tank  13 sites surveyed and engineer  tender document for valley dams/tank
Feasibility Study              rehabilitation or construction  prepared for 5 sites              construction/rehabilitation
Note: Studies No 1 to 7 as per SAR, and studies No 8 to 11 are additional.



- 21 -
Table 8A: Project Costs (US$ million)
SAR                                        Actual
Investment Costs                                 Local        Foreign          Total          Local       Foreign           Total
A. Civil Works                                     3.9            3.7            7.6            2.6            3.0            5.6
B. Vehicles                                        0.1            2.1            2.2            0.2            2.5            2.7
C. Equipment                                       0.1            0.5            0.6                           0.5            0.5
D. Agricultural Inputs                             1.9            4.0            5.9            0.3            2.8            3.1
DD. Community Development Fund/Credit'               -              -              -            0.6              -            0.6
Sub-total Base Investment Costs                    6.0           10.3           16.3            3.7            8.8           12.5
Physical Contingencies                             0.8            1.2            2.0              -              -              -
Price Contingencies                                0.4            0.6            1.0              -              -             -
Sub-Total (incL contingencies)                     7.2           12.1           19.3            3.7            8.8           12.5
Recurrent Costs
AA. Operating Costs - Roads2                         -              -              -            1.7            0.6           2.3
A. Operating Costs - Vehicles                      1.2            1.7            2.9            0.6            0.7            1.3
B. Other Operating Costs                           0.4            0.1            0.5            2.7            0.3            3.0
C. Salaries and Allowances                         0.7              -            0.7            1.9             -             1.9
D. Technical Assistance                            0.1            2.7            2.8            0.2            3.8           4.0
DD. Overseas Training'                               -              -              -              -            1.0            1.0
Sub-Total Base Recurrent Costs                     2.4            4.5            6.9            7.1            6.4          13.5
Physical Contingencies                             0.2            0.5            0.7              -             -              -
Price Contingencies                                0.2            0.3            0.5              -             -              -
Sub-Total (incl. contingencies)                    2.8            5.3            8.1            7.1            6.4          13.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                9.9           17.5           27.4           10.8           15.2          26.0
" Not included at appraisal.
21 For spot improvements. At appraisal this was to have been done by civil work contract, and operating costs were for maintenance.



- 22 -
Table 8B: Project Financing (US$ million)
SAR                        Actual
Local   Foreign    Total   Local'  Foreign    Totall
IDA
I.   Civil Works
IA road rehabilitation              2.01      3.07      5.08    n.a.3      n.a.     5.08
IB Other civil works                0.38      0.38      0.76     n.a.      n.a.     0.51
II.  Vehicles & Equipment                 0.19     2.61      2.80     n.a.      n.a.     3.61
Consultancy (road supervision)        -        -         -       n.a.      n.a.     0.89
Unallocated                         0.54      0.82      1.36                          -
Total                               3.12      6.88     10.00     n.a.     n.a.      10.09
IFAD
III  Agricultural Inputs                  1.25     3.96      5.21     n.a.      n.a.     2.68
IV.  Operating Costs                      0.16      1.88     2.04     n.a.      n.a.     4.04
V.  Consultant Services, Studies & Training    0.09  2.58    2.67     n.a.      n.a.     4.12
Credit                                -        -         -       n.a.      n.a.     0.41
Valley Dams                           -        -         -       n.a.      n.a.     0.28
Unallocated                         0.79      1.29      2.08                          -
Total                               2.29      9.71     12.00     n.a.      n.a.     11.53
SOF
Project Start-up                    0.06      0.24      0.30     n.a.      n.a.     0.29
GOU2                                4.09      1.01      5.1      n.a.      n.a.     4.14
of which:
MAAIF Budget                                                                        0.79
MOLG Budget                                                                         0.69
USAID (through MOLG)                                                                0.98
Project Input Revenues                                                              1.68
Project Total                       9.57      17.83    27.40     n.a.      n.a.     26.05
Values are not strictly comparable to SAR Costab values because:
(a) Costab values include the tax elements of imported inputs. Taxes on imported inputs were neither
actually paid nor recorded in project accounts. Total costs including national taxes would be
higher than the above figures.
(b) Costab includes local and foreign cost components for each item. Project accounts do not make
any such distinction. An actual breakdown is therefore not available.
2/  SAR included US$ 3 million taxes.
3/  n.a.: data not available.



- 23 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The SAR indicated that the economic rate of return (ERR) over a 20 year life, of the
adaptive research and extension and road components was expected to be in excess of 15%.
Benefits were estimated on transport cost savings and predicted yield increases over virtually the
whole range of food crops. Project benefits have now been re-assessed based on: (a) the numbers of
farmers living within easy reach of SWRARP improved roads; (b) yield increases of 25% for
bananas and potatoes by 20% of farmers in these areas; (c) area increases of 10% (bananas), 20%
(potatoes) and 5% (other crops) on farms within easy reach of improved roads; (d) typical prices for
produce as observed over the project life in local market survey; and (e) an estimate of other benefits
from increased milk production and marketing, trade in other produce, additional employment and
passenger and other transport cost savings in total equivalent to 10% of estimated benefits from the
above annual crops and bananas. Since continuing benefits will depend greatly on the level of road
maintenance, and this is as yet uncertain, the project's ERR has been reworked over the period to the
year 2000 (3 years after Government support to the project, as such, is due to stop, and a total of 12
years). The annual value of incremental production for years 1997-2000 is estimated at US$ 6.7
million for bananas, US$ 0.8 million for potatoes and US$ 2.1 million for other crops. The annual
total net incremental benefit for the same years is estimated at US$ 8 million.
All project costs were included in the revised calculation, except for community
development, credit and valley dams (for which no direct benefits were included either) and overseas
training and monitoring and evaluation which produced no identifiable economic benefit. The
revised calculations show an ERR of about 17%. However, because the project's monitoring and
evaluation unit failed to measure key indicators adequately and because it is impossible clearly to
separate the project's impact from other changes in the economic environment, the estimate is far
from precise. Detailed assumptions and basis for the economic analysis are available in the project
file.



- 24 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Uganda
SWRARP
Original    Revised
Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment Description of
Agreement   Section    type       status      date        date    covenant              Comments
C 1869       4.01 (b)      I        CD    Continuous       NA       Borrower to have
records and accounts   Until the fourth year,
audited and a certified  the project faced
copy of the audit    major difficulties to
report furnished to    set up a financial
IDA not later than six  system and keep
months after the end of proper accounts.
the fiscal year      Chronic delays in
submitting satisfactory
4.01 (c)      I        CD    Continuous       NA      Borrower to maintain  audited SOE and
records of SOE, retain  project accounts were
them for examination  noted during the first
by IDA, and have     half of the project.
them audited annually  After the MTRh the
project generally
complied with the two
covenants
Status:             C      -      Complied with
CD    -      Compliance after Delay
NC    -      Not Complied with
SOON         Compliance expected in Reasonably Short Time
NYD  -       Not Yet Due
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title               I  Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
No deviation from applicable Operational Manual Statements observed
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



- 25 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs 1/
Stage of                      Planned                 Revised                 Actual
project cycle
Weeks        US$         Weeks       US$        Weeks       US$
(000)                   (000)                 (000)
Preparation to            na 1/          na         na            na        na        na
appraisal
Appraisal                  na           na          na           na         na        na
Negotiations through       na           na          na           na         na        na
Board approval
Supervision                na           na          na           na         na        na
Completion Report 2/        2/           2/
TOTAL                    123.9        226.5                               118.9     257.5
I/ Data on Bank Resources are not available prior to supervision of the project due to internal Bank
reorganizations.
2/ Excluding FAO inputs, these figures are 5.0 weeks and US$ 10,500.



- 26 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Pprfnrmn Psiting
Stage of project cycle        Month/            Number             Days              Specialized          Implementation   Development   Types of problems
Identification
Preparation                     3-4/85               7               23            A, CE, E, HE, LE,              -                  -
Pre-appraisal                  10-11/86              5               20              A, CE, E, R/E                -                  -
Appraisal                       5-6/87               6               20              A, IS, M&E                   -                  -
Negotiations                    1-2/88              2a/              7                     A,                     -                  -
Supervision
2                   7-8/89                3               17                Al CDd/                    3                 2           CF, OS, PM, PR, T
3                    3/90                5                7               A, Ad/, CDd/                 3                 2                CF, PM
4                   9-10/90              4                5              E, FA, PR, R/E                3                 2              CF, PM, PR
5                    4/91                5                5              CD, E, FA,R/E                 3                 2           CF, PDI, PM, R/E,
6                    9/91                5                7            E, FA, PR, RD, R/E             3U                 2           AFC, CF, PM, RD
7                    11/91                1              8cI                  FA,                                        d/              AFC, RD
8                    2/92                 1              22c/                  FA                      e                 C/              AFC, RD
9f/                  5/92                5               13           DI, FA, FA, PR, RD               2                 2             AFC, FC, RD
10                  10-11/93              4               12             AI, CE, E, FA                 S                  S              ,AFC, RD
11                   4-5/94               3               14                E, FA, RD                  S                  S                PR, RD
12                   10/94                3               10                E, FA, RD                  S                  S             CS, PDI, RD
13                    4/95                3               6                 E, FA, RD                  S                  S                  PR
14                   12/95                2               14                 FA, RD                    S                  S               RD, VD
15                    6/96                2               14                 FA, RD                    S                  S                  PR
Completion                10/96                3               14                A, E, CE                            -                   -
at  A = AgTiculturist; CD  Community Development; CE = Civil Engineer; DI = Disbursement; E = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; IS = Institution Specialist; R/E = Research - Extension;
PR = Procurement Specialist; RD = Roads Engineer; R/E = Research - Extension
b/ AFC = Accounts, Audit and Financial control ; CF = Counterpart funding ; CS = Credit scheme ; OS = Office space; PDI = Pricing and Distribution of Inputs
PM = Project Management; PR = Procurement ; RD = Feeder roads component; RTA = Recruitment of TA; T = Transport; VD = Valley dams.
I = Non significant problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems (appropriate actions are being taken to address those problems); S = Satisfactory.
d/ Funded by IFAD
No form 590 prepared
Midterm Review.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SOUTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR 1869-UG)
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE






2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SOUTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR 1869-UG)
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.         A mission1/  from the FAO Investment Centre (FAO/IC)/World Bank (WB) Cooperative
Program visited Uganda from 7 to 21 October 1996 to prepare the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for the above project. The mission held discussions with relevant officials from the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Local Government (MOLG) and the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF). The mission worked closely with the Senior Management and staff of
SWRARP. Field visits were made to the six project districtsl/ and discussions held with senior
Representatives of Local Governments, SWRARP, MAAIF, farmers and group leaders.
2.          The mission is grateful to the SWRARP team, ministry officials and farmers for their
assistance in gathering the necessary information and organizing successful field visits. Preliminary
impressions and findings are presented below, and are subject to modifications following further detailed
analysis.
Objectives, Components and Time-Frame
3.          The project's objectives were to increase food production, incomes and living standards of
small farmers in the six districts of the South West of Uganda. Initially, at project appraisal (SAR),
SWRARP included five components:
(a)        Rural Access Roads (US$ 13.3 m) including (i) a program of rehabilitation and spot repairs
on 2,000 km of rural access roads; and (ii) provision of plant, equipment, incremental operating costs and
in-service training for MOLG.
(b)         Agricultural Input Supply (US$ 8.1 m) for (i) the procurement and sale of small, high
volume inputs; (ii) vehicles, material or equipment to strengthen marketing infrastructure; and (iii)
establishment of staff and warehouse at Mbarara.
131 Mr Guy Evers, Mission Leader/Agronomist (FAO TCIR), Ms Frances Maundrell, Agricultural Economist
(Consultant) and Mr El Houssine Bartali, Civil Engineer (Consultant).
4' At appraisal, the project area consisted of four districts (Mbarara, Bushenyi, Kabale and Rukungiri), and two
districts were created during implementation within the same area: Kisoro and Ntungamo.



3
(c)        Adaptive Research and Extension (US$ 3.9 m) for (i) rehabilitation of two District Farm
Institutes (DFI) and improvement of facilities at research sub-stations; and (ii) strengthening of adaptive
research and extension through provision of vehicles, equipment, technical assistance, training and
operating costs.
(d)        Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) (US$ 0.8 m) to bring together information on project
implementation and evaluate impact.
(e)        Project Management (US$1.3 m) to enable the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to
coordinate implementation and administer a Community Development Fund.
4.         The project was identified by IFAD in 1984, prepared by FAO/IC in 1985 and appraised by
WB in 1987. The IDA Credit and IFAD loan became effective in 1988. A Mid-Term Review (MTR) was
launched in 1992. There were eight Bank supervision missions before the MTR, and six afterwards. The
project initial closing date was set at mid-1994, and was eventually extended to mid-1996.
Implementation Context and Evolving Project Design
5.         By 1988, when SWRARP started, GDP per capita had fallen by 40 percent since 1970 and the
ravages of war and insecurity had reduced the rural economy to a parlous condition. Thus, project design
was directed mainly towards rehabilitation of key infrastructure (roads - 48 percent of project costs) and
restoration of supply of agricultural inputs (30 percent of project costs) with smaller allocations for adaptive
research, extension and community development. The SAR affirmed that all smallholder farming families
of the region were poor and should be potential beneficiaries of the project. The Economic Recovery
Program launched in 1987, and the associated liberalization program, led to a rapid improvement in
economic conditions in the project area. The Government of Uganda (GOU) did, however, recognize that its
readjustment policies were tending to result in growing disparities in incomes and later took steps to direct
assistance towards the poorest members of the community which were most seriously affected.
6.         Project implementation was slow until 1992, with interventions limited to adaptive research
and extension in 7 priority counties and training, together with the procurement and resale of some
agricultural inputs.  Project management was restructured in the early 1990s and when project
implementation took off in 1992, spreading to cover the entire region, the design of the project had been
reoriented towards a capacity-building and more long-term development approach, in keeping with the
changed economic and administrative context then prevailing. Thus, at the end of its life, the project had
changed shape with the addition of two components and adjustment of funding allocations.
7.         The SAR provided for a US$ 95,000 Community Development Fund, to be administered
under the Project Management Unit and financed by IFAD. Subsequently, IFAD further elaborated
proposals for Community Development to give group formation and development greater prominence and
appears to have regarded it as a separate component, although no direct change in the Loan Agreement
resulted.
8.         Small farmer credit, having been proposed on a number of occasions during the project cycle,
was finally included in the form of a pilot credit subcomponent (under Community Development) in an
amendment of the IFAD loan agreement in mid 1992. Originally allocated SDR 500,000 (apparently to
cover operating costs as well as a US$500,000 credit fund), the final allocation - designated for a credit
fund only - was fixed at SDR 300,000 (US$414,000) in June 1994.



4
9.          Following a request from GOU in 1994, an agreement was reached to include the construction
of a number of valley dams within IFAD's funding. The last amendment of the IFAD Loan agreement
(June 1994) thus included a new Category V for Valley Dams (SDR 380,000) which are now considered to
be the project's seventh component.
Project Costs and Financing
10.         SWRARP provisionally estimates total project costs at US$ 25.1 million compared with the
SAR estimate of US$27.4 million. Given the changes in project structure mentioned above and the lack of
proper books of account before 1992, it is not possible at this point to give a breakdown of costs by
component to compare with the estimates made at appraisal. To illustrate the application of funds, the table
below instead shows disbursements against the planned allocation of funds among categories of
expenditure.
Loan/Grant and Category                 Loan Allocation        Disbursement
1988       1994/96
IDA (Credit) (finally amended 1996)                          SDR million
Category I A - Civil Works (Roads)             3.85          3.85           3.46
Category I B - Civil Works (Other)             0.58          0.42           0.36
Category II - Vehicles & Equipment             2.12         2.82            2.62
Category III - Consultant Services               -           0.51           0.61
Unallocated                                     1.05          -
TOTAL                                           7.60          7.60            7.06
IFAD Special Operation Fund (SOF, grant)         0.30                         0.29
IFAD (loan) (finally amended 1994)
Category I - Agricultural Inputs               3.66          3.00            1.91
(incl. Community Development Fund)
Category ll - Operating Costs                   1.54        2.14            2.70
Category III - Consultancies, Training         2.31         3.28            3.10
and Studies"l
Category IV - Credit                             -           0.30           0.25
Category V - Valley Dams                         -           0.38           0.19
Unallocated                                     1.59
TOTAL                                           9.10          9.10           8.15
5' In the SAR Implementation Volume overseas training was allocated US$ 75,000  among miscellaneous
operating costs of the Adaptive Research and Extension component. This was intended to fund short term study
by adaptive research staff. Quite early in the project a decision appears to have been made to devote considerably
more resources to overseas training. At the time no amendments were made to the structure or Loan agreements of
the project to accommodate this decision, but in its Loan amendment of mid 1994, IFAD substantially increased
its allocation under Category III (Consultants, Training and Studies) mainly, apparently, to reflect sums already
spent and planned to be spent on this item.



5
11.        Government counterpart contribution has amounted to the equivalent of about US$ 3.9 m of
which 42 percent from inputs revenues, 14 percent from MAAIF, and 44 percent from MOLG
(US$ 0.9 million USAID contribution and US$0.8 million MOLG budget).
Implementation Experience
12.        Rural Access Road Rehabilitation. The rural access roads network in the project area was
estimated at appraisal at 2,700 km of which 20 percent were impassable due to collapsed bridges and
swamps and 40 percent were passable only in the dry season. The initial objectives were to rehabilitate and
spot repair 2,000 km, using contractors over a 3 year period, in order to permit year round access, and to
support MOLG's road maintenance program by the provision of equipment, training and operating costs.
13.        Substantial delays were incurred in selecting an international consulting firm to identify the
roads and sections to be rehabilitated and conducting the study. The consultants found that, because costs
had been underestimated at appraisal and more deterioration had taken place in the interim, the target for
rehabilitation would have to be reduced from the initial 2,000 km to only 488 km of first priority roads in
order to keep costs within the original funding allocation. Moreover, these 488 km could only be restored
to dry weather status. It was not until the end of 1993 that a supervising consultant was selected to review
initial design and supervise works.
14.        The partial rehabilitation of first priority roads was undertaken by two contractors between
mid-1994 and mid-1996, focusing mainly on impassable sections. One contracting firm which was engaged
on contracts for other clients in Uganda, could not fulfil its contract, which was partially handed over to the
second contractor. The delays by the first contractor entailed additional payments to the supervising
consultant. In undertaking the additional work, the second contractor was obliged to subcontract to other
local contractors. As of October 1996, nearly 488 km of contract road rehabilitation have been completed.
However, an estimated 5 km in Kisoro district was not completed by the second contractor, due to time
constraints. In Ntungamo district, SWRARP direct labor units (under a sub-contract to the second
contractor) are still in the process of installing about 60 percent of the required culverts, which were
delivered late. About half of the contract roads are still under the liability defects period which, for the last
works, will expire in March 1997.
15.        In order to reduce the shortfall in the road component resulting from the target reduction, and
to speed progress, it was decided to use the project-funded road equipment and plant for spot improvement
of 1,000 km of feeder roads. Equipment recovered from a former ILO road rehabilitation project was also
used. As of October 1996, some 1020 km ol roads have been spot improved.
16.        Staff training under the component consisted of on-the-job training for 6 projectlMOLG
engineers with the consultant on road inventories and condition surveys; an MSc in road engineering in the
UK for the Project Engineer, and local training for projectlMOLG staff in site management, record keeping,
job costing and inventory control.
17.        Agricultural Inputs. The SAR identified lack of inputs, and the scarcity of foreign exchange
to procure them, as a key constraint to agricultural production in the region and proposed the importation of
about US$6.5 m worth of inputs for wholesale over 5 years (1989-1993), starting with US$1.1 m in 1989
and rising to US$1.7 m in 1993. Midway in this program a study was to be conducted to determine if and
how the project's wholesale business should be privatized.



6
18.        In fact, implementation of the component was delayed by non-availability of storage space
and hitches in procurement procedures. The first two buys arrived over 1990, 1991 and early 1992 when
inputs were in short supply, but the consignments were limited in size (together US$1.12 m) and, because
they were priced below prevailing prices in surrounding areas there was some leakage of inputs from the
region. By the time the third and fourth buys (together US$1.70 m) took place in 1993, the private sector
was active and had its own access to foreign exchange. Large fluctuations in the exchange rate between
contract and delivery of SWRARP consignments meant that turnover was slow and the project had to price
some inputs at a loss in order to sell them. Materials for rehabilitation of marketing infrastructure were not
imported because they were found to be available on the local market. The warehouse at Mbarara,
proposed to be built and completed in time to receive the first buy, was never built and the
recommendations of the privatization study were found to be too difficult to be implemented.
19.        The total value of inputs procured under the project was US$2.85 million and the funds
generated by sales to date are USh 2.42 b, 68 percent of which has been ploughed back into the project as
GOU counterpart funding. Had the input supply component been implemented in full, it would have
generated significantly higher GOU revenues.
20.        Despite its shortcomings, and being overtaken by events later on, the component did
nevertheless have a positive impact by supplying inputs when they were sorely needed early in the project
and it facilitated the establishment of retailers in the region by providing them with stocks at a time when
business was brisk.
21.        Adaptive Research. This sub-component was designed to address small farmer needs
through an adaptive research program with emphasis on the region's major food crops. In 1989, research
priorities were identified through a project study as lack of improved varieties1/, pests and diseases, soil
fertility, and agricultural practices. The major areas of emphasis have been the screening and release of
promising varieties of Irish and sweet potatoes, beans, maize, wheat and short term upland rice,
technologies for banana weevil control and soil conservation. The major outcome of these activities are: (i)
the wide adoption of one Irish potato variety (Victoria); and (ii) the development and partial adoption of
improved banana husbandry practices (sanitation, trapping, mulching and soil/water conservation) reported
to limit weevil attacks, while significantly increasing yields.
22.        Concerning legumes and cereals, the lack of seed production capacity and related
development initiatives in the project area, have limited the adoption of the released improved varieties. For
Irish potatoes, the project, in conjunction with Kalengyere research station, developed a seed production
strategy through contracts with groups or individual farmers. The benefits of using clean seeds, and the need
to renew potato seeds regularly should, however, be further demonstrated to farmers, and seed production
capacity should be substantially increased to meet expected demand. In June 1994, following MAAIF
restructuring and the approval of an IDA-funded Agricultural Research and Training Project (ARTP),
project research was transferred to the then newly created National Agricultural Research Organization
(NARO). On-station/on-farm research is being pursued in the project area for Irish potatoes, wheat, banana
and agro-forestry/soil conservation (funded by NARO and donors).
23.        Extension and Training. This sub-component was intended to revive the depleted extension
services in the project area. In particular, the main objectives were to provide in-service training and logistic
support for staff, ensure linkage with research, and restore the capacity of Bushenyi and Kachwekano DFIs
16/ The distinction between improved seeds and varieties was not made.



7
to provide farner and staff training, and equip each with a media-centre. In-service training, mobility and
staff allowances enabled extension staff to train project direct beneficiaries (i.e. farmer groups) and other
farmers through their regular activities. The project released five technical packages for use by extension.
Some project districts were used for testing the unified extension system with the training and visit
approach. During 1993/94, all extension activities were handed over to the IDA-funded Agricultural
Extension Project (AEP). Some 470 farmer day courses were organized by the project, mainly at DFIs.
However, the two DFIs have not yet been rehabilitated (now to be financed under AEP), and appear to be
largely under-utilized.
24.        In addition to local training, an ambitious staff training program abroad was set-up, resulting
in more than 40 short courses and 18 Msc degree courses, of which 7 were in extension/education, 4 in
agronomy/crop protection and 7 in economics/ management. Consequently, investment on staff training
greatly exceeded those in farmers training, the latter suffering from the delays in restoring DFI capacity, and
the lack of funds of the district extension offices.
25.        Community Development. Implementation of the Community Development component was
adversely affected by inconsistency in its formulation and financing between the SAR, various
reformulations by IFAD and IFAD loan agreements. Fortunately, the project set about promoting and
training groups with the resources available to it, giving emphasis to women group members. The number
of groups in the project area had risen from 218 in PY 1 to well over 500 by the end of the project with
some 65 percent women members. Many have received training in day and residential courses through
which both technical and administrative skills have been built. As a result, management capacity and
confidence, especially of group leaders, is now substantial.
26.        Through the Community Development Fund (finally received in March 1993) and funds from
the Special Operations Fund (received in 1994), over 70 groups have been assisted. Twenty-six received
grants of building materials and funds to employ technicians for completion of stores, otherwise largely
built with the groups' own efforts. Some of these 26 groups and around 50 others received inputs and/or
equipment. In addition, selected members of 15 women's groups received grants of a heifer for zero-
grazing whose female descendants are in turn being donated to other group members. Beneficiary groups
are in general spread throughout the region although, from the mission's visits, it would appear that many of
the heifers were donated to the more prosperous members of groups near towns.
27.        Credit. The credit fund was released in instalments of US$50,000 to US$90,000 from early
1994 onwards and has been lent to groups for on-lending to members, generally for 6 months, but
sometimes up to a 12 month term. With recycling, 373 loans have been made to 241 groups and around
2700 individual group members of whom some 43 percent are women. Beneficiary groups have tended to
be clustered in a small number of locations in each district. Most loans have been used to finance labor for
crop production, especially banana rehabilitation, but also for trading, livestock enterprises, other income
generating enterprises such as beekeeping and mushroom growing, and even for land purchase. The value
of individual loans commonly ranges between US$100 and US$500, with a maximum of US$1000. Interest
rates have varied between 17 percent and 26 percent.
28.        SWRARP has achieved commendable recovery rates for its loans (until recently over 80
percent ) by (a) frequent visits by credit officers to groups and where necessary to individual members (b)
efforts of local authorities including LC and group leaders and (c) rewarding groups which repay promptly
with the offer of repeat and increased loans. The recovery rate is all the more remarkable because,
according to SWRARP's own assessment, one third of Phase I and II beneficiaries interviewed claimed not
to have made a profit from their loans. However, the pilot credit operation under SWRARP may not be



8
replicable in its current form because of the high costs of training and supervising groups and their
members. From its visits, the mission has also noted that credit recipients tend to be the most educated and
capable minority of group members and that the scheme may therefore tend to exacerbate rather than
mitigate rural income disparities. Nevertheless, it has played an important role in fostering enterprise and
demonstrating income generating activities in rural areas and it should be maintained on its present scale if
proper institutional arrangements can be put in place.
29.        Valley Dams. This component aimed first to rehabilitate 8 existing dams and construct 3 new
valley dams and/or tanks. Of the 15 potential sites considered, 4 valley dams and one valley tank were
selected, but one had to be dropped due to time and budget limitations. The dams are located in
Rwemikoma (rehabilitation), Kantaganya-Engali (new), Nyarubungo-Katerera (new), all in Mbarara
district, and Kibutamo (new valley tank) in Ntungamo district. The fifth dam in Mpangamushanju
(Mbarara district) will now be proposed for construction under the Livestock Services Project.
30.        As of October 1996, progress of work is: Rwemikoma (61 percent ), Kantaganya-Engali (76
percent), Nyarubungo-Katerera (93 percent) and Kibutamo (92 percent). The supervision consultant should
see that the contractors complete all remaining work, particularly to ensure adequate embankment strength
and that spillways will function effectively (especially at Rwemikoma dam).
31.        The valley dams and tanks are intended to reduce water shortages for both livestock and
humans and hence reduce nomadism. However, no cost-benefit nor environmental impact studies were
made. Both planning and construction appear to have been adversely affected by the time constraint
imposed by the late inclusion of the component and relatively early closure of the project. The performance
of one contractor has been mediocre. Sustainability will basically depend on the degree of organization of
water users' associations and how well they manage to raise funds from members and support from local
authorities to maintain/protect the site environment in general and the dam structure and related equipment
in particular.
32.        Monitoring and Evaluation. The M&E unit carried out a baseline, mid-term and final
household survey and 7 thematic surveys which provide valuable information on project impact. Due
mainly to staff and resource constraints, the final household survey was, however, simplified (sample and
questionnaire), and does not provide quantitative data on agricultural production which could be compared
with the results of the 1989 baseline survey. The unit did not carry out regular financial (cost) monitoring.
Although recommended in the MTR, low priority was given to the monitoring of agricultural activities, and
no analysis was carried out on the financial viability or impact on labor demand of the recommended crop
packages and income generating activities (e.g., mushroom, poultry and heifer).
33.        Management Support and Technical Assistance (TA). During the first years of
implementation, there were difficulties in coordinating activities and managing the project. Adequate office
accommodation was also not available until 1992. Restructuring of the project and changes in senior
management before the MTR greatly contributed to overall project achievements. Better collaboration with
local authorities also resulted in enhanced political and administrative support from the districts and the
Inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee (ICC) played an increasingly effective role.
34.        Some 350 man-months of long and short term TA were hired by the project. The main fields
of assistance included civil engineering, project management, research and extension. Rapid turnover of key
TA staff at the beginning of the project contributed to the early implementation problems which might have
been solved earlier, had GOU and the Bank taken prompter decisive action.



9
Lender and Borrower Performance
35.        Both Borrowers and Lenders contributed to the problems which hampered the early
implementation of the project as well as to the resolution of the difficulties around the time of the Mid-
Term Review. At appraisal, local tender procedures appear not to have been fully understood, and there
were over-optimistic estimations of the time required to establish logistics for project implementation and
input procurement (combined with the lack of contingency plans in case of delay). The lack of detailed
implementation guidelines for project management was also an important omission. During project
implementation, lack of GOU counterpart funding, delays by participating institutions and project
management problems (including failure to adhere to established GOU procedures) hindered progress.
There were also procedural delays by the Bank. Bank supervision was helpful in highlighting and solving
project issues with GOU authorities. In particular, the Bank's prompt action on agreeing a variation order
on roads contracts was crucial to the progress of the component. The performance of the minor project
components might, however, have been improved if the Bank had provided more technical supervision.
Both lenders exercised good understanding and flexibility in adapting financing arrangements to GOU and
changing project needs. The support of the Uganda WB office was greatly appreciated by project
management - especially the institution of a financial screening service for claims and, towards the end of
the project, assistance with procurement procedures.
Project Impact
36.        It is impossible to quantify the impact SWRARP alone has had in the project area because of
the large and very generalized economic changes over the period, complementary development
interventions, and because of the shortage of data. Also, a large part of the road rehabilitation program has
only been completed very recently and some of its potential impact has perhaps not yet been realized. The
mission believes, however, that SWRARP's overall impact has been substantial and positive. The road
program has already generated an increase in general economic activity and agricultural production through
opening previously impassable roads to traffic and reducing transport costs. This has been verified by
surveys showing increased traffic volumes on both feeder and trunk roads in the area. Together with
improved access to markets, improvements in productivity of bananas and Irish potatoes resulting from the
Adaptive Research and Extension component have boosted incomes and food availability almost region-
wide. The Community Development and Credit component has had a more localized impact on incomes
and nutrition through its promotion of diversified enterprises and has established foci of local management
capacity. It may, however, have had the effect of further concentrating, rather than spreading, the
distribution of resources in some rural communities.
Project Sustainability
37.        Of the four field components of SWRARP, one - Adaptive Research and Extension - has been
merged with national programs supported by WB projects (ARTP and AEP). This has reportedly resulted
in some dilution of activities in the project area but is in line with prevailing Government and WB policy.
Agricultural input supply was intended in the SAR to be taken over by the private sector. Although not
entirely in line with the pattern of wholesale dealing or on the scale envisaged, this did, in fact, take place
spontaneously during the course of the project and satisfactory private sector arrangements do appear to be
in place: private suppliers of agricultural and veterinary inputs operate in centres throughout the region.
38.        Maintenance of both contract and spot improved roads is imperative but only a few roads
have undergone routine maintenance so far. GOU now gives the highest priority to road maintenance and
has increased its budget allocation for rural roads almost four fold in FY97. However, this is still below the



10
country's requirements and districts are not able to match MOLG allocations as is required. Road
maintenance equipment purchased under SWRARP for 4 districts has been spread over the 6 districts of the
project area. Government is in the process of procuring additional equipment worth US$ 4 m for the whole
country, of which some will be for the project area, but this will still not raise the districts' maintenance
capabilities to the level originally intended by the Bank under the project. Other measures which would
contribute to road maintenance include persuading farmers not to cultivate their fields up to the road edges,
limiting axle loads of lorries, and rehabilitating trunk roads.
39.        The project was directed to terminate its credit activities from mid-February 1996, and only
loan recovery activities have been pursued. Funds recovered are to be transferred by SWRARP to the Bank
of Uganda. In January 1996, the South West Uganda Agricultural Development Agency (SWUADA) was
established as an NGO. It embraces the SWRARP districts and three other westem districts. Among its
intended activities, SWUADA will provide credit to its members, along the lines of the SWRARP credit
component. If SWUADA is to successfully take over the credit scheme, it must concentrate its efforts on
this undertaking in SWRARP districts only, and receive assistance for building its technical and managerial
capacity.
Future Operations
40.        Although IFAD and IDA loans were closed by mid-1996, SWRARP activities will continue
during FY97, solely under GOU financing. This is commendable and reflects the GOU's interest in
completing project activities, such as feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance, and credit group training.
The project is planned to be dismantled by mid-1997, and part of the future operations should be directed
towards handing over project activities to relevant organizations. The mission confirms that it discussed the
FY97 project operations with the project management, of which an outline is attached to this Aide
Memoire.
Lessons Learned
41.        When borrower and lenders agree to add a significant component at the end of the project
(e.g. small valley dams), appropriate additional time should be given to (i) allow the preparation of
feasibility studies including economic and environmental aspects; and (ii) avoid having to transfer project
staff resources from other on-going activities. In these circumstances, it is especially important that only
competent contractors are engaged to undertake the work.
42.        In addition to screening of new/exotic crop varieties, consideration should be given to local
varieties, especially to the reasons for their adaptation to prevailing farning systems, and to their
improvement through proper seed production (and possibly mass selection), and better crop husbandry
practices.
43.        To yield significant impact, the release of superior varieties should be accompanied with
sustainable seed production systems.
44.        More attention needs to be devoted to devising satisfactory logistical arrangements and
contingency plans at appraisal. Where rapid start-up of project activities is expected to be crucial to the
impact of the project, the appraisal team should include an experienced project administrator who might, in
addition to investigating conditions on the ground and defining implementation schedules, also set in
motion the procurement process by drawing up draft tender documents.



11
45.        Project baseline and terminal surveys should be contracted out to external specialist
organizations, so as to allow project M&E units to concentrate on routine M&E activities, reduce overhead
costs, permit independent evaluation of project impact and build centres of technical excellence in the
conduct and analysis of surveys and other forms of socio-economic investigation.
46.        All avenues should be pursued to optimize the choice of candidates for key technical
assistance posts. It is often the practice to require companies to distinguish between their own staff
members and contracted consultants in their bids. They might further be required to include, in individual
CVs, the employment record of the candidates concerned and/or otherwise demonstrate how familiar they
are with the performance of the same. Perhaps penalty clauses for consultants should be tightened.
(Kampala, 21 October 1996)



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SOUTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CR 1869-UG)
APPENDIX B
EVALUATION SUMMARY OF GOVERNMENT'S COMPLETION REPORT






REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
SOUTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IFAD LOAN SRS-010 UG - IDA CREDIT 1869-UG
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives:-
The objectives of the South West Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
(SWRARP) were to increase food production, farm incomes and standards of living of
small farmers in the region. The objectives were to be achieved by the provision of
basic farm inputs, support for adaptive research and extension and relevant institutions
and rehabilitation-of rural feeder roads.
The revitalization of small scale agricultural production was viewed as a means of
boosting production to ensure food security, generate marketable surpluses and
increase per capita income.
The main constraints were lack of inputs, inefficient or weak agricultural research and
extension services and lack of access, or very high transport costs which prohibited
access, to produce markets. The Project Strategy was therefore to achieve the above
objectives through the provision of inputs, adoption of improved technologies from
adaptive research, through extension and rehabilitation and spot improvement of
feeder roads. Four economically disadvantaged districts, which later increased to six,
with redemarcation of district boundaries, were targeted.
Implementation Experience
The Loan and Credit became effective in August 1988, however, the project took off a
year later in September 1989 when all counter part and TA staff were in post. This
time lost, coupled with unsatisfactory performance of some TAs, delays in
procurement and inadequacy of counterpart funds up to mid 1992, led to the closing
date of the project being extended twice, involving a total of 20 months. The project
closed at the end of February 1996. It is estimated to have cost US $ 23.445 million
which is less than the appraisal estimate of US $ 27.4 million. Of this GOU
contribution is US $ 4.74 million equivalent.
The procurement of inputs was considerably delayed due to an inappropriate
procurement arrangement which bypassed CTB, inadequate knowledge of ICB
procedures by UCB and project staff, lengthy and bureaucratic delays in approving
lists of items to be procured as well as delays in approving and award of tenders. The



2
above constraints were inherited by the Input Supply Unit after the contract with UCB
terminated in June 1993. As a result a US $ 1.0 million order of Inputs initiated in
1992 was cancelled, as it was caught by the February 1996 deadline. This left the
same amount unspent. The project incurred losses and low sales due to foreign
suppliers who on some occasions delivered goods differing from those specified both
in quality, quantity and physical specifications. This was occasioned by an
international firm contracted by GOU to carry out preshipment inspection, rendering
services in an unsatisfactory manner.
The adaptive research on-station activities were limited to 2 sites namely, a research
station and a research farm, excluding 2 sites at the 2 DFIs. This was due to
insufficient counterpart funds. On-farm trials were carried out on ,selected contact
farmers holdings in seven priority counties throughout the region. There was a shift
from contact farmers to contact groups after Midterm Review to facilitate faster
adoption. A store was erected at each of the research institutions.
Institutional capacity building was supported by staff training abroad and within the
country. This was in the form of short courses and study tours and longterm courses
leading to M.Sc degrees. A total of 40 short courses were attended and 17 staff
received higher degrees. The project also assisted with transport, operating funds and
office equipment for extension related activities. A media resource centre for
production of extension messages, transport, classroom and dormitory furniture were
provided at each of the 2 DFIs. Each District acquired a road maintenance Unit made
of up road equipment.
The project was restructured in 1991 to introduce a women organisation unit and
credit scheme and a Dam/Valley tank component in 1994. Under the project's Women
Organisation Unit, female extension staff were accorded transport and demonstration
equipment for teaching women. The Credit Scheme has generated keen interest and
there is greater demand for loans than can be met.
Project Results and Impact
The overall impact of the project can be assessed through various impact studies as
well as the baseline, midterm and terminal household surveys. The aim of the project
was to increase food production, marketed surpluses, incomes and standards of living.
It is evident that the project has contributed positively to agricultural growth in the
area of food crop production and marketing. Through -a revitalized and motivated
extension service farmers have been trained in improved husbandry practices for irish
potato , banana and wheat production. Adaptive Research has replaced low yielding
varieties of potatoes with yields of 2 - 8 tons per hactare, with improved ones yielding
15 - 30 tons per hectare. Three new varieties viz Kisoro, Kabale and Victoria have
bean released by the National Variety Release Committee and adoption rates are very



3
high. However demand for improved seed is still very high and distribution
problematic, largely depending on individual initiatives. The sustainability of this
impact depends on research releasing improved seed every 3 - 4 years.
The banana weevil which was threatening to wipe out the industry has been brought
under control using cultural methods - which is a low cost sustainable approach.
Improved varieties of wheat were released to farmers. However, wheat production is
constrained by inappropriate largely monopolistic marketing. The market is not
guaranteed and therefore unreliable and prices very low.
Upland rice was introduced in Rukungiri where adoption has been very high and 60
tons are produced in one subcounty of Nyamirama per year. Further expansion of
production is hampered by lack of mechanised milling facilities.
Input Supplies have supplemented improved varieties and husbandry to step up
production, arising from, increased yields per unit area (ie productivity) as well as
increased acreage. Inputs are widely available and prices more stable compared to the
preproject situation. Ownership of hand tools by households has increased as well as
use of chemical inputs.
In terms of capacity building, the institutions associated with the project have
benefitted from the training programme, transport and furniture and equipment
provided by the project. The project, however did not carry out any Civil Works on
the DFIs other than demolishing one dormitory and making bills of quantities and
technical drawings for the dormitory and other works at both DFIs.
Inspite of road rehabilitation starting rather late, evidence from traffic surveys
reveals a sudden increase in traffic (most of it lorries and pickups), reduction in
vehicle operating costs and average journey times. A lot of produce is finding its way
to markets and producer prices have generally improved. Ownership of bicycles, a
major means of transport has greatly increased as well as bicycle traffic.
At grassroot level, about 500 groups were mobilised and trained and many are
engaged in income generating activities. On the impact of credit, information
available from beneficiaries reveals that their incomes have improved as a result of
which they are sending their children to school and their purchasing power has
generally improved. Overall, the households produce and sell more and are more
food secure than previously. Family nutrition has also largely improved through
training offered to women's' groups and incorporation of milk in diet, which is from
zerograzed heifers.
Livestock ownership is an important indicator of wealth and as such it is one of the
proxy indicators of income. The terminal household survey reveals that the number of



4
and 1995. The surveys reveal that households on the whole consume more meat, own
more radios and time pieces than in 1990.
On standards of living, there is evidence that households own and live in more metal
roofed houses than when the project started.
Based on the above performance and impact, it is in order to state that the project has
performed quite satisfactorily in pursuit of its objectives. However it is not possible to
say how much of the impact can be attributed to SWRARP as other projects were
implemented concurrently with SWRARP.. These include a highway roads project, an
ILO/UNCDF funded feeder road project and South West Integrated (Health and
Water) Project (SWIP), and Credit schemes (Entandikwa, PAP, NGOs). Other than
the Impact from agricultural components (adaptive research, extension and input
supply) where SWRARP was the sole or main actor, the impact accruing from
improved transportation, community group mobilization and credit is attributed to all
the players, not SWRARP alone.
Sustainability:
The main risk to the sustainability of activities supported by SWRARP is the shortage
and/or untimely release of funds by the successor organisations to implementors. This
is true of research and extension. Feeder Road maintenance is largely the
responsibility of District Administration. Judging from the amount of resources
allocated to roads by districts under decentralization, certainly roads are not given the
priority they deserve and are likely to deteriorate once again. However, some feeder
roads will be maintained under the ADB-funded project in the short run. Input supply
is being carried on by the private sector although there is need for government to
institute regulatory and quality controls. On credit, farmers groups have formed an
agency (SWUADA) to act as a rural financial intermediary under the new national
credit policy. However, there is uncertainty as to whether banks in the project area are
willing to take on the role of Participating Commercial Banks (PCBs).
Findings and Lessons Learnt
The main findings and lessons learnt from implementing this project are of a design
and operational nature.



5
Design Considerations:
(i) Induction Prior to Implementation Commencement
A workshop should be held at the start of the project involving all key project
personnel to be involved in the implementation and donor personnel who supervise
the project. The main purpose of the workshop should be to ensure that:
(a) all staff understand the roles of each component of the project to minimise
digression and possible role conflicts;
(b) all staff understand the legal requirements of the project including assembly of
data for purposes of monitoring and evaluating the project during and after
implementation; and
(c) everybody understands the financial implication of strictly adhering to the
approved work programmes and budgets.
(ii) Flexibility of Project design
Project design can be influenced by changes in government policies and modification
of strategy to better realise objectives. It is therefore important that sufficient
flexibility be inbuilt at design stage to allow for later changes.
(iii) Proper Scheduling of Civil Works
In integrated projects where" civil works such as roads, buildings, water reservoirs are
to be constructed to facilitate other project activities, it is crucial that they start ahead
of other activities so as not to delay them. This will enhance maximisation of
beneficial impact on beneficiaries. -
(iv) Women tailored programmes
An important lesson from SWRARP is that women have a big role to play in
development provided programmes are tailored to meet their needs.
(v) Cross Project Transfer of Activities
Experience has shown that activities initiated under one project should be completed
by the same project as they risk suffering from further delays if transferred to another
project or not be implemented at all.



6
(vii) Role of Local leaders
Local leaders namely LC Officials and Chiefs can play an important role in project
implementation if sensitised. Their good will in mobilising beneficiaries and
enforcing bye-laws and regulations can make the difference between a successful and
disastrous project. This is especially so in recovery of loans in a credit scheme.
(viii) After sales service
It is important that in future projects of a similar nature, involving procurement of
plant/equipment under ICB, the firms or their agent should be evaluated for their
ability to offer sound after-sales services.
(ix) Capacity considerations in Contract award
The capacity of some contractors, notably the local ones may not stand up to the
magnitude of work in major civil works. As such, selection should be guided by the
contractors capacity to undertake the works.
(x) Road maintenance to avoid economic wastage
Road rehabilitation is a very costly venture which should be entered into only if
maintenance is guaranteed.
(xi) Credit Sustainability
The failure of UCB to renew its agency agreement with SWRARP on cost grounds
and Cooperative's Bank refusal to participate as PCB may be signal that they are not
ready to participate in the new credit delivery mechanism. It is important that GOU
does not leave rural people without proper alternative credit sources as arrangement
are put in place.
May 1996



IBRD 20814
UGANDA                                  \                                     33                     Z
SOUTHWEST REGION                                  -                                                          / D
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT AREA          _ \i
ta              7               &                                     a/             KoobonaJ
Project Area                     /                    MOYD                       KITGUM           /          N)
Mcor Roods                     J                                                                                    rwO
RaIlrods                       ' |K/IA                                                     TGUMK
3-             R.vers                          K   AR      Co(                                                          i        KOTIDO
6D Orst,rct CopItals
- Dstrjct Boundor.es                  \
- Internatjonal Boundar,es           -                                                                                       /    MOROTO'\,   m
0    25   50   75   jo0 KILOMETERS                                                              g.tt(\/                             MOROTO
-2-      0       20     40      60 tlE5       ,S/LY                                /  4  APAC                           \                        -                2-
f    jKAPCH                                    A >/SOROT
BU''"'IB' O                            MUt7ENDE         A       ekrulojo9te           Ig$             R"RMI  jZ   I.
/                                                             8~~~AeIe~0  N.j goA
I-,  0       KAt-7AR70LE       +                   _          !ndot  I\Mu9xaNa    9             VGAN  A                   ustardrer *MlM
L~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COt U                                9870N gai
JA~~~~(
m I I ~        ~         I 
KA SE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
31'                                                                       (l~~l,T
X,                                                                  SUD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  ANB
oke                                                                                             ETHI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCPOIRA






UGANDA
South West Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
Map 1. AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES AND RURAL ROADS
I a k c   --  --               -  - - -  ---
J, k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
E d it a,  d            ^     /                                                B A  R           
V   B U S H E N Y I                             /      _    >     _    < ,
X p;              -                                 S- o'I S S (wf                                         { \~~~~I- 
-     Ntu~ngam-
o  |   -'-   1 >_   >  \  \        NTUNCGAMO          \                 
I o_s \ X a o ~TANZANIA
lKISRdQ9x_    /A A  L E A                       
-      SWRARP Contract Roads
Agro-Ecological Zones/             -       SWRARP Direct Labor Roads
Procduction Systems                       UNDP/UNCDF/ILO Roads
. .] Temperate crop zone           -  -    - International boundary
-   1  - - Distnct boundary
RWANDA                                            ] r 2 X Mixed tarrningl Matoke zone  Q      District capital
RWANDA                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Thunk roads
N     3 ] Seemi-arid rangelands zone  -------- -- No project teeder roads
0            20Km  A
TCIl 1 96-258/UGPROJG






UGANDA
South West Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
Map 2. PRIORITY COUNTIES AND FORMER GROUP ACTIVITIES
E d/v a t-d                                                           C    Groups
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pirt    Counties kl
<4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ----------- ;R
_ -KlsoCrt   4, - i  >   J                      _  ~~~~~~~~~~International boundary
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -sur; R-FA   District boundary
X~~~~~~~~~~~~RAD 1L0  District caprtal
t 1 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                     Trunk roads
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SWRARP and ILO roads
J      ~~N                                                             Grant Assisted Community Groups
\                                          *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Credit Groups
IIPriority Counties
0         20 Km
TC111 96-259/UGPRCOUN









IMAGING
Report No.:        16358
Type:     ICR



