Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1869 UG
      (Southwest Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 9, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1869 UG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February  9,  1988,  between THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA   (the   Borrower)   and   the   INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS:  (A)  the  Borrower,   being  satisfied  as  to  the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has applied  to  the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called  the Fund) for a loan
(hereinafter called the  Fund  Loan)  in  an  amount equivalent to
nine  million  one   hundred   thousand   Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 9,100,000) to assist  in  financing  the Project on the terms
and conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement  to  be entered into
between the Borrower  and  the  Fund  (hereinafter called the Fund
Loan Agreement);
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the  following  additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
     (c)  "MOLG"   means   the   Borrower's   Ministry   of  Local
Government;
     (d)  "U Sh"  means  Uganda  shillings,  the  currency  of the
Borrower;
     (e)  "Project Area"  means  the  Southwest  Region of Uganda,
comprising  the  administrative  districts  of  Mbarara, Bushenyi,
Rukungiri and Kabale;
     (f)  "UCB" means the Uganda Commercial Bank;
     (g)  "PMU"  means   the   Project   Management   Unit  to  be
established  pursuant  to  paragraph  2  of  Schedule  4  to  this
Agreement; and
     (h)  "Southwest  Development  Revolving  Fund  Account" means
the account referred to  in  paragraph  12  of  Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement,  an  amount   in   various   currencies  equivalent  to
seven  million  six   hundred   thousand  Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 7,600,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit  Account,  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement,  for  expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1994, or
Page  3
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement to the respective
dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the
Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be paid:
          (i)  at such places as  the Association shall reasonably
               request;
         (ii)  without restrictions of any  kind imposed by, or in
               the territory of, the Borrower; and
        (iii)  in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
               purposes of Section 4.02  of the General Conditions
               or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
               may from time  to  time  be  designated or selected
               pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower  shall  repay  the  principal  amount  of  the Credit
in  semiannual  installments   payable   on   each  April  15  and
October 15, commencing  April  15,  1998,  and  ending October 15,
2027. Each installment to and including the installment payable on
October 15, 2007,  shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever:
          (i)  the Borrower's gross  national  product per capita,
               as  determined  by   the  Association,  shall  have
               exceeded $790 in constant 1985-dollars for five (5)
               consecutive years; and
         (ii)  the Bank shall  consider  the Borrower creditworthy
               for Bank lending,  the  Association may, subsequent
               to the review and approval thereof by the Executive
               Directors  of  the   Association   and,  after  due
               consideration by  them  of  the  development of the
               Borrower's economy, modify  the  terms of repayment
               of  installments  under   paragraph  (a)  above  by
               requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
               each  such  installment  not   yet  due  until  the
               principal amount  of  the  Credit  shall  have been
               repaid.  If  so  requested  by  the  Borrower,  the
               Association  may   revise   such   modification  to
               include, in lieu of some  or all of the increase in
               the amounts of  such  installments,  the payment of
               interest  at  an   annual   rate  agreed  with  the
               Association on the  principal  amount of the Credit
               withdrawn  and  outstanding   from  time  to  time,
               provided that, in the  judgment of the Association,
               such revision shall  not  change  the grant element
               obtained   under   the   abovementioned   repayment
               modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
Page  4
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MOA and MOLG with due  diligence  and efficiency and in conformity
with  appropriate  agricultural,  engineering,  administrative and
financial practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and,  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the Project
and to be financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (b)  In order to  assist  the  Borrower  in  carrying out the
Project, the Borrower  shall  employ  consultants,  referred to in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association.
     Section 3.03. The  Borrower  shall  ensure that the execution
and operation of  the  Project  are  carried  out  with due regard
to  environmental  factors  and  the  maintenance  of  appropriate
agricultural pesticides selection  and use practices, satisfactory
to the Association.
     Section  3.04.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions of
Section 3.01 (a) of this  Agreement,  the Borrower shall take such
measures as shall be  necessary  to ensure that adequate budgetary
allocations are made in  the  Borrower's  recurrent cost budget to
finance recurrent cost requirements of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices,  the  operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect  of  the  Project,  of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts, referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special   Account,    the   Southwest   Development
               Revolving Fund  Account  and  the  separate Project
               accounts to be established by MOA, MOLG and UCB for
Page  5
               each  fiscal  year,   audited  in  accordance  with
               appropriate   auditing    principles   consistently
               applied by independent  auditors  acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six (6) months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such  detail  as  the Association shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills, receipts and other documents) as evidence of
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section, and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls involved in their prep-
               aration, can be relied  upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that:
     (a)  Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
          (i)  the right of the  Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
               of  the  Fund  Loan   shall  have  been  suspended,
               cancelled  or  terminated  in  whole  or  in  part,
               pursuant to the terms  of  the Fund Loan Agreement;
               or
         (ii)  the Fund Loan  shall  have  become  due and payable
               prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
     (b)  paragraph (a) of  this  Section  shall  not apply if the
Borrower establishes,  to  the  satisfaction  of  the Association,
that:
          (i)  such suspension, cancellation,  termination or pre-
               maturing  is  not  caused  by  the  failure  of the
               Borrower to perform  any  of  its obligations under
               such agreement; and
Page  6
         (ii)  adequate funds for the Project are available to the
               Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph  (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)
of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Special  Account   has   been  opened  pursuant  to
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
Fund Loan Agreement, other  than  the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment, have been fulfilled;
     (c)  the  Borrower   has   established  the  Interministerial
Coordinating Committee  and  the  Regional  Coordinating Committee
pursuant to paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (d)  the Borrower has appointed:
          (i)  the Project Liaison Officer;
         (ii)  the Project Coordinator; and
        (iii)  the Project Evaluation  Officer with qualifications
               and  experience  and  under  terms  and conditions,
               satisfactory  to   the   Association,  pursuant  to
               paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
               and
     (e)  the Borrower has furnished  an  annual work plan for the
first  year  of  the  Project,  satisfactory  to  the Association,
pursuant to paragraph 15 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 8147
          Kampala
          Uganda
          Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  7
                FINSEC                          61170
                Kampala
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                          By /s/ Elizabeth Bagaaya-Nyabongo
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works:
     (a)  Road                   3,850,000       80%
          rehabili-
          tation
     (b)  Other civil              580,000       60%
          works
(2)  Vehicles and                2,120,000       100% of foreign
     equipment                                   expenditures and
                                                 50% of local
                                                 expenditures
Page  8
(3)  Unallocated                 1,050,000
                              ____________
         TOTAL                   7,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to increase food production
and income, and raise  living  standards of small-scale farmers in
the Project Area.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Services
     Establishment of an adaptive research program and improvement
of an extension  service  through  the  construction and rehabili-
tation of housing, office  and storage facilities, the acquisition
of vehicles and equipment,  the  financing  of operating costs and
allowances,  and  the  provision   of  training  and  consultants'
services.
Part B:   Agricultural Inputs
     Improvement of the supply  of agricultural inputs through the
acquisition  and  resale  of  production  inputs,  acquisition  of
materials, vehicles  and  equipment  to  facilitate  marketing and
trade in agricultural inputs in  the Project Area, construction of
a warehouse,  financing  of  operating  costs  and allowances, and
provision of training and consultants' services.
Part C:   Rural Access Roads
1.   Rehabilitation of the rural access  roads network of Class II
and Class III roads in the Project Area.
2.   Improvement of MOLG's road maintenance capability through the
acquisition of machinery, vehicles  and equipment, operating funds
and  allowances,  and  provision   of  training  and  consultants'
services.
Part D:   Project Management
1.   Establishment and  operation  of  a  Project  Management Unit
through the  acquisition  of  vehicles,  furniture  and equipment,
renovation  of  housing   and   office  facilities,  financing  of
operating costs  and  allowances,  and  provision  of consultants'
services.
Page  9
2.   Establishment of a Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
3.   Administration of a community development fund.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Equipment and vehicles  shall  be  bulked together in bidding
packages to the maximum extent practicable.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In  the  procurement  of   goods,   in  accordance  with  the
procedures described in  Part  A.1  hereof,  goods manufactured in
Uganda may be granted a  margin  of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In  the  procurement  of   works,   in  accordance  with  the
procedures described in Part A.1  hereof, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference to  domestic  contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works under Parts  A,  B  and  D  of the Project may be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the  basis  of   competitive   bidding,   advertised  locally,  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $1,000,000, may  be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of  comparison  of  price quotations solicited from a
list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to  bid  and  proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of:
         (i)   $50,000 or more for civil works and items or groups
               of items to  be  procured  pursuant to paragraphs 1
Page  10
               and 2 of Part D above; and
        (ii)   $200,000  or  more,   for   all  other  items,  the
               procedures set  forth  in  paragraphs  2  and  4 of
               Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for  such  contracts  are  to  be  made  out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies  of  each  contract,  required to be fur-
nished to the Association pursuant  to paragraph (d) of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines, shall be  furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the  first  payment  out  of  the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to  be  made  out  of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of  each  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required  to  be  furnished   to   the  Association,  pursuant  to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished to
the Association as part of  the  evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination and Management:
1.   The  Borrower  shall  coordinate  the  implementation  of the
Project through a  central Interministerial Coordinating Committee
and a Regional Coordinating Committee in the Project Area.
     (a)  The   Interministerial   Coordinating   Committee  shall
consist  of  the  Permanent   Secretary,  MOA,  as  Chairman,  and
representatives of MOLG, the Ministry  of Finance, the Ministry of
Planning and Economic  Development,  the  Ministry of Cooperatives
and Marketing, the Bank of Uganda, UCB, and a Project Coordinator.
The Project Liaison Officer to be  appointed by MOA shall serve as
Secretary to the Committee. The Committee shall meet quarterly and
be  responsible  for  reviewing  policy  issues,  annual  progress
reports, annual accounts and  audit  reports, and approving annual
work plans,  budgets,  major  procurement  contracts  and overseas
training.
     (b)  The Regional Coordinating Committee shall consist of the
Project Coordinator, as Chairman, and the Regional Engineer, MOLG,
the Regional Agricultural Officer,  MOA,  the UCB Regional Manager
Mbarara, the Regional Officers of the Ministry of Cooperatives and
Marketing, the Borrower's Regional  Implementation Officer for the
UNICEF Health and Rural Water  Supply Program for the Project Area
and the  four  District  Administrators  as  members.  Other staff
involved in Project  implementation,  including District Planners/
Statisticians, may be invited to  attend meetings of the Committee
from time to time. The  Project  Evaluation Officer, who will head
the  Project  Monitoring  and  Evaluation  Unit,  shall  serve  as
Secretary to  the  Committee,  and  shall  be  established  as the
Regional Evaluation Officer by  June  30, 1989. The main functions
Page  11
of the Committee  shall  be  to  facilitate  the implementation of
Project activities, to prepare  annual  work plans and budgets, to
coordinate with other entities  responsible for the implementation
of other projects in the Project  Area, to prepare requests to the
Ministry of Finance  for  funding  on  a  quarterly  basis, and to
prepare and review  quarterly  progress  reports for submission to
the Interministerial Coordinating  Committee.  The Committee shall
meet once a month.  To  the  extent practicable, meetings shall be
held, on  a  rotation  basis,  at  the  headquarters  of  the four
districts comprising the Project Area.
2.   Under the overall guidance  and  supervision of MOA and MOLG,
implementation of the Project  shall  be  carried out by PMU which
shall be headed by  a  Project  Coordinator  and shall include the
Regional Agricultural Officer, the Regional Evaluation Officer, an
accountant, an inputs  supply  manager,  a financial controller, a
specialist in  agricultural  research  and  an  extension training
specialist.  PMU,   with   headquarters   in   Mbarara,  shall  be
established and fully  staffed,  by  not  later than September 30,
1988.
Part A of the Project:
3.   The Chief Research Officer  of  MOA  shall be responsible for
Project-related agricultural research,  with technical support and
supervision of adaptive research provided  by staff of the Kawanda
Research Station. The identification, detailed planning and estab-
lishment of adaptive research programs shall be the direct respon-
sibility of the  agricultural  research specialist and counterpart
staff. Adaptive  research  activities  shall  be  centered  at the
Kalengyere Research Substation, the  Rubare Farm, and the District
Farm Institutes at Kachwekano  and Bushenyi, with their respective
outreach programs. Under the  direction of the Deputy Commissioner
for  Agriculture/Production,  the  Regional  Agricultural  Officer
shall  continue  to  have  overall  responsibility  for  extension
services in the Project Area.
4.   In order  to  promote  the  full  participation  of  women in
Project  productive  activities,  PMU   shall  take  all  measures
necessary to ensure that, by December 31, 1991:
          (i)  at least 10%  of  the  contact farmers working with
               the extension service are women;
         (ii)  training programs are  put  in  place  to raise the
               number of  women  farm-level  extension  workers to
               at least  10%  of  the  total  number of farm-level
               extension workers in the Project Area;
        (iii)  the content  of  MOA's  Home  Economics  Program is
               relevant to, and  useful  for,  the needs of women;
               and
         (iv)  gender  questions   are   included   as  evaluation
               criteria in the  various  studies  to be undertaken
               from time to time  by the Monitoring and Evaluation
               Team.
Part B of the Project:
5.   PMU  shall  be  responsible  for  conducting  market surveys,
placing orders  for,  taking  delivery,  storing,  repackaging and
selling of agricultural inputs.  These  functions shall be carried
out by PMU's inputs supply  team, including a deputy inputs supply
manager, a warehouse manager,  guards  and laborers, and headed by
an inputs  supply  manager,  whose  qualifications  and  terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
The Deputy Inputs Supply  Manager  and the Warehouse Manager shall
be employed and in place, by not later than September 30, 1988.
Page  12
6.   In order to  assist  PMU  in  the procurement of agricultural
inputs, MOA shall, by not  later  than September 30, 1988, appoint
UCB to act as its procurement agent under an agreement, with terms
and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the  Association,  which  shall
include:
     (a)  UCB's responsibility  for  procurement  and  delivery of
agricultural inputs at Mbarara;
     (b)  an undertaking by UCB  to  hire a suitably qualified and
experienced organization, under  terms and conditions satisfactory
to  MOA  and   the   Association,   to   assist   UCB  in  product
specification,  evaluation   of   bidding   firms   and  technical
evaluation of bids, for a fee to be borne by the Borrower; and
     (c)  payment of a commission to  UCB, not exceeding 7% of the
cost of procured agricultural inputs delivered at Mbarara.
7.   Subject  to  such  modifications  as  the  Borrower  and  the
Association shall make from time  to time, the agricultural inputs
to be procured under the Project shall be:
          (i)   hoes, pangas,  hand  tools  for  small farm culti-
                vation,  wheelbarrows,  bicycles,  motorcycles, ox
                ploughs, carts  and  animal-drawn equipment, small
                mills and  small-scale  agro-processing equipment,
                agricultural  chemicals,   including  fertilizers,
                pesticides   and   insecticides,   improved  seed,
                workshop equipment and  spare parts, fencing mate-
                rials and  tools,  packaging  materials, equipment
                and  materials   to   support   crop  storage  and
                marketing; and
         (ii)   storage construction materials,  and equipment and
                vehicles  for  cooperative  unions  and societies,
                farmers groups, and produce  and inputs traders to
                support the  development  of  agricultural inputs,
                and  crop  marketing   services   up  to  $700,000
                equivalent.
8.   (a) In order to provide  agricultural inputs to small farmers
in the Project Area in a  timely and accessible fashion, PMU shall
encourage free market  participation  by  all  entities engaged in
wholesale and retail  trade  in  such  inputs. Agricultural inputs
procured under the  Project  shall  be  sold  on  a  cash basis at
wholesale market prices to:
         (i)   traders, cooperative unions  and societies licensed
               to operate in  the  four  districts  of the Project
               Area; and
        (ii)   farmer groups from the Project Area.
     The Inputs Supply Manager and  his  team within PMU shall, by
not later than  September  30,  1988,  prepare  and  submit to the
Association, for its review and comments, a proposal, satisfactory
to the Association, on  the  management  of  the sale of inputs by
PMU. Alternatives  presented  under  this  proposal shall include,
inter alia:
         (i)   the sale of inputs  at  market wholesale prices set
               by PMU after  a  survey  of  similar  prices in the
               Project  area  and  taking  into  consideration the
               purchase price  evaluated  at  the  market exchange
               rate and cost of handling and transport; and
        (ii)   the sale of selected inputs through a pilot auction
               system. The proposal  shall,  for each alternative,
               also cover,  inter  alia,  the  minimum and maximum
               amounts  to  be  sold  to  a  given  purchaser, the
               periodicity of  price  review,  the methodology for
Page  13
               price  determination  and  for  the  pilot  auction
               system, the  criteria  for,  and  selection of, the
               goods  to  be  auctioned,  the  periodicity  of the
               auction, and the setting of reserve prices.
     (b)  The  Inputs  Supply  Team,  in  collaboration  with  the
Monitoring and Evaluation  Unit  and the Agricultural Secretariat,
under terms of reference  agreed  with  the Association, shall, by
December 31, 1989, finalize and submit to the Association, for its
review and comment,  a  study  evaluating  the inputs sale systems
used, with recommendations on  the  pricing  system  to be used in
subsequent years and to be implemented after consultation with and
agreement of the Association.
9.   The prices of agricultural  inputs, throughout the Borrower's
territory and prices charged  under  the Project in Mbarara, shall
be monitored  by  the  Borrower's  Agricultural Secretariat, which
shall submit a report for  the Association's review and comment by
December 31 of each year.
10.  PMU shall, by not later  than  June 30, 1990, appoint experts
to undertake a study, with  terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, on the feasibility  of  setting  up a financially and
operationally independent entity to assume the agricultural inputs
supply functions of PMU. The  study  shall be completed, not later
than December 31, 1990, and its findings and recommendations shall
be reviewed by the Borrower and the Association.
11.  By not later  than  six  months  after  the completion of the
study, the Borrower shall, on  the basis of the recommendations of
said study  in  consultation  with  the  Association, initiate the
transfer of PMU's functions  for  the procurement and distribution
of agricultural inputs to  agents  acceptable  to the Borrower and
the Association.  The  Borrower  shall  continue  to  allocate the
necessary  foreign  exchange  to  enable  such  agents  to  import
agricultural inputs  in  sufficient  quantities  to meet recurrent
requirements in the Project Area.
12.  PMU shall deposit the  proceeds  of all sales of agricultural
inputs into an account, to be opened and maintained in the Bank of
Uganda, and to be used to support the Borrower's rural development
program.
Part C:
13.  The  roads  rehabilitation  work,   to   be  carried  out  by
contractors selected pursuant to  Part  A.1  of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement, shall be supervised  by  a team of consulting engineers
in conjunction with the Regional  Engineer, MOLG, and the District
Works Superintendents.  The  team  of  consulting  engineers shall
include:
          (i)  a project engineer to be  based at Mbarara, who, in
               conjunction with the Regional Engineer, MOLG, shall
               report to the Project Coordinator;
         (ii)  an  assistant  engineer  to   be  attached  to  the
               contractors' work unit to supervise daily progress;
               and
        (iii)  a  mechanical  superintendent   to  assist  in  the
               operation and maintenance  of equipment and provide
               in-service training  to  MOLG  staff.  The Regional
               Engineer, MOLG,  assisted  by  the various District
               Work  Superintendents,  shall  be  responsible  for
               maintenance of regional rural access roads.
14.  The Borrower shall ensure  that  funds  are made available to
each district  in  the  Project  Area  to  cover  the  costs of an
adequate rural roads' maintenance program.
Part D:
Page  14
15.  On  the  basis  of   information  submitted  by  all  Project
implementing agencies and ministries,  PMU shall prepare an annual
work program, for  each  year  of  Project implementation, for the
review  and   approval   of   the   Interministerial  Coordinating
Committee. The annual work  program  shall  be submitted by MOA to
the Association for review,  by  not  later than April 1 preceding
the fiscal year covered in the program.
16.  The Monitoring and  Evaluation  Unit  of  PMU, which shall be
responsible for  the  design  and  implementation  of a monitoring
system  for  the  periodic  reporting  of  selected  indicators of
Project performance, shall, under  the supervision of the Planning
Division of MOA, prepare a  mid-term  review, the results of which
shall be provided to the  Association, not later than December 31,
1990, in accordance with  terms  of  reference satisfactory to the
Association.
17.  The  Project  Coordinator   shall   be  responsible  for  the
administration of a Community  Development  Fund  of up to $95,000
equivalent, designed to support  the formation of farmers' groups,
women's groups and  primary  cooperative  societies in the Project
Area. Applications for funds must  be sponsored by MOA's extension
service or home economics service, other agencies of the Borrower,
such  as  the  Ministry   for   Cooperatives  and  Marketing,  the
Department of Community  Development  of  MOLG  or by private non-
government non-profit  voluntary  organizations.  Applications for
assistance will be submitted to the Project Coordinator and should
contain a statement of the group's objectives, membership, manage-
ment team and activities to be  funded by the Project. The activi-
ties  to  be  funded  should  be  productive,  provide  additional
employment  and  should  include,  inter  alia,  the  marketing of
agricultural inputs or  agricultural  products,  the processing of
agricultural  commodities  and   the  production  of  agricultural
inputs. The Fund can be used to cover:
          (i)  initial operating costs, supplies and allowances;
         (ii)  renovation of buildings for use by the group; and
        (iii)  courses and training programs  for  the group to be
               run by the  sponsoring  institution.  Not more than
               $3,000  equivalent  may  be  disbursed  to  any one
               group.
18.  The Borrower shall, not later  than sixty (60) days after the
end of the reporting period,  submit to the Association semiannual
progress  reports  comparing  actual  progress  with  the progress
proposed in the annual  work  program  and budget. The first semi-
annual report shall  be  submitted,  not  later  than February 28,
1989.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible  Categories" means Categories (1)(a),
(1)(b)  and  (2)  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph  1  of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures" means expenditures, in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out of the proceeds of the Credit,
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  Eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount of
US$400,000 to be withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and deposited
Page  15
into the Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation, and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account, may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as theAssociation shall 
specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion  from  the  Credit  Account,  under  the  respective Eligible
Categories and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by  the  evidence  supporting  the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to  the  Eligible  Categories,  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered  into  by   the   Association  pursuant  to
               Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
               to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of
               twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
Eligible Categories shall follow  such  procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice  to  the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be  made  only  after  and  to  the  extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  Eligible
Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
Page  16
          (i)  was made for any  expenditure  or in any amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph  2 of this Schedule;
               or
         (ii)  was  not  justified   by   the  evidence  furnished
               pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule, the
               Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice  from  the
               Association, deposit into  the Special Account (or,
               if the Association shall  so request, refund to the
               Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such
               payment or the portion  thereof  not so eligible or
               justified. No  further  deposit  by the Association
               into the Special  Account  shall  be made until the
               Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
